136th book of 2023. #12 in my challenge (read a trilogy): Alan and I decided this was applicable, being three physical books, though split into seven parts. And the Septology is over. Oddly, this was my least favourite of the three, but by now, Asle's wandering thoughts were so familiar, they might have been my own. Yes, Bragi the dog, and yes, the boat, and yes, Ales, and yes, the Beyer Gallery, and so on. I found the ending underwhelming, on first reading, but when I returned to it and re-read it, later in the day and without nearby noise and distraction (the sanctity of a lamp-lit bedroom), I found it poignant. Even by reading this and his newest release, A Shining, I am happy that Fosse won the Nobel Prize this year.

Septology felt like the shortest of the long reads I've subjected myself to this year. I felt as if it ended half way; I could have kept on reading. Lulled by the signature rhythm of Fosse's prose, which realistically and insightfully traced the patterns and impulses propel human thought and feeling -- a universality in Asle's slow, sad life that felt moving, comforting. Very nice descriptions of food... I need a huge plate of bacon and eggs from the country inn, I NEED some of those Christmas lamb ribs...

“…and that’s because a human being is a prayer in himself or herself, in his or her yearning.…” And this journey has come to an end.

This series was a totally unique reading experience. The prose mimics the intake and exhalation of breath and the repetitive pulse of liturgical prayer. You need to let the sentences wash over you like waves on the Sygne Sea. The effect is something like a temporary dissolution of the self.

Jon Fosse is a literary maverick, and his work A New Name: Septology VI-VII is a testament to his unique storytelling prowess. The novel's distinctiveness lies not only in its narrative content but in its form—it unfolds as a single continuous sentence (all the way from Septology I to VII). This uninterrupted flow provides a unique lens into the life of Asle, an ageing painter residing on the southwest coast of Norway, grappling with the void left by the loss of his wife Ales and the subsequent challenges of his life as an artist. As the narrative unfolds, another layer of complexity is introduced—the existence of another Asle in the nearby city of Bjørgvin. This namesake, too, is a painter, but his journey is marred by alcoholism, pushing him toward the doorstep of death. The duality of these two characters serves as a poignant exploration of existential questions, contemplating the meaning (or lack thereof) in life. Fosse's prose, resembling a biblical quality, evokes a sense of reading sacred scriptures. The sentences, sometimes seemingly nonsensical, carry profound meanings, enriched by the subtle power of repetition. The novel becomes a canvas where Fosse masterfully captures the nuances of everyday life, laden with quotidian rhythms. His ability to preserve the rhythms of the mundane elevates the ordinary to the extraordinary. Despite my experience being limited to entering the story's narrative at Septology VI and VII, skipping the preceding Septology I to V, there is an immediate sense of familiarity with Asle. Each section feels like a standalone book, offering a glimpse into different stages or versions of Asle's life. It’s also a story with more emphasis on writing rather than plots, focusing on small things happening in everyday life rather than a grand mission that the protagonist needs to complete. Through Asle's journey, the narrative becomes a meditation on the human condition, exposing our imperfections and the often-overlooked rhythms that shape our existence. The story also delves into the complex nature of faith, a theme woven with rational and irrational threads, embodying the inherent paradoxes of the human experience. Fosse beautifully illustrates how daily predicaments serve as exemplifications of these paradoxes. The narrative invites reflection on the nature of belief—how we grapple with unexplainable phenomena, oscillating between rational thought and leaps of faith. Reading this story elicits a sense of tranquillity, a calm hopefulness that not every question demands a definitive answer. It suggests the possibility of multiple answers coexisting—a testament to the multifaceted nature of the human experience. The story inspires a belief in the resilience of humanity, anchoring our existence in a cosmic narrative that began in darkness and will inevitably return to it. In embracing this cyclical nature, Fosse crafts a tale that echoes the collective story of humanity, offering a comforting and profound narrative.

Is this book before its time? While I didn’t enjoy reading this book, I did enjoy thinking about this book. Say what? Let’s go back to the beginning…… Before starting Flesh, I read the blurb. And I kept reading the blurb over and over. Because even after reading the blurb, I had no idea what the book was going to be about. The Good Theme – The overall theme is interesting. While there are other sub-themes (I will include a list of discussion questions at the end), the central theme is that Istvar, the main character, lives alone or detached. Structure – The entire book has very short sentences. It is stripped to the core (haha pun intended); therefore, the book is highly readable. The Bad Structure – One of my favorite authors is F. Scott Fitzgerald. Some of his sentences are a bit lengthy, but it is because they have earned their length. Admittedly, I am averse to change so maybe I am just a cranky old lady who can’t get with the times, but the sentences in Flesh were too stripped down for my taste. Character Development – This book reminded me of Albert Camus’s The Stranger, because it seemed anything could happen, and the response would be, “Sure. Yeah. Okay.” None of the characters are memorable. Discussion/Book Club Questions: 1) How does Istvar live in a detached way throughout the novel? 2) Who gets a name in the novel? And why? 3) What role does trauma play in Flesh? 4) How does Istvar change over time? 5) Is Istvar in control of his fate or is he controlled by forces beyond his control? 6) Does Istvar meet the definition of primitive masculinity? 7) What role does art play in Flesh? *Thanks, Scribner, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and unbiased opinion. The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent): Hardcover Text – Free/zilch/nada/gift from publisher Audiobook - $84.99 per year through Everand Connect With Me! Blog Threads BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

[4.5] Flesh is a reminder that you don’t come to brilliant contemporary literature to find a role model or a friend. The novel’s protagonist, István, grew up meager in Hungary, living with his mother at a housing estate. He had jobs as a bouncer and in security, thoroughly uninteresting work. After a series of events—violence inflicted and violence endured, István surprisingly glommed onto a privileged life with a wealthy wife. He doesn’t have a lot to give emotionally, and he therefore doesn’t get much back. Benefits include his career as a property developer in London, fueled financially by his unobservant wife. Down to the marrow, István is blunt, reactive, and incurious, and somehow irresistible to certain women. This big bad book is all about István, from childhood to old age. Vivid and dark, it’s one man’s inchoate and soulless life. Things happen to him; he doesn’t choose much. He relies on easy, convenient parts of his character to get ahead. Yet, he doesn’t seem to care or experience much joy. Szalay shrewdly underplays the peak moments of István’s life. By the writer’s design, certain liminal events happen offstage or between the lines. No explanation is provided for the lacunae—the text remotely clarifies (or unleashes quickly) as the days and years proceed. Dialogue-heavy and terse, the narrative kicks ass with minimalist colloquies. Unpoised and tightly coiled, István doesn’t really grow; he just gets older. Catastrophes and transgressions happen and he just doesn’t learn. Instead, István lurches from one dubious event to another. He has a son that you know is sure to be just like him—apathetic and weak. István personifies the inner workings of a shallow man and a lack of self-awareness. It sounds dismal—and it is. But somehow Szalay makes an oppressive life vibrant. István isn’t Pierce Brosnan sexy; he’s undeveloped, primeval, overall dark and gloomy to me, hiding weaknesses with a vicious mental dexterity. But I know the type of woman he attracts, the kind he can con without putting himself out. This isn’t a treatise on toxic masculinity; it centers on a cowardly, taciturn man, a life-lurker rather than a doer. He lacks imagination and passion, grows up quickly after an intense and defining moment--one that makes it to the page. Karma also plays a role and provides a theme in this tale. Ultimately, he meets his match by way of a moody stepson. Repeatedly, István doesn’t do well with conflict. I withheld a half star due to the boggy middle section, which may owe to István’s inertia. I could not get myself to care one way or another what happened to István or the people he cared about—because he didn’t even care about the people he cared about! Despite all this, I was glued to the story. Szalay fleshes it out, with bones, blood, and balls.

Flesh is a challenging read.- stark - direct - but pulls you in Booker Winner 2025 Following the life of 15 year old István - a lonely boy living with his mother in a Hungarian town- the story follows his first troubled steps into adulthood. He finds himself in a relationship with am older married woman which confuses and troubles him until it leads to an action that alters the course of his future. Life eventually takes him to the world of the rich in London during the noughties and into the 2010's and the pandemic. Each chapter follows a significant next step in his life's trajectory: highlighting the excesses of living in a bubble of wealth- the turbulent and mixed relationships within this world - his employers; future wife; stepson and his own child. After the first chapter, there was a feeling of being unsettled by the content and wondering how much despair and hardship could be endured but once István's journey arrives in London the story hooks as to how he will survive an unknown city that seems to offer itself to all In some senses this feels like a morality tale - a fable about the desire to have more; improve your world and maintaining the facade and how it can all crumble in an instant. A story of a toxic masculinity and the need to succeed.l David Szalay's writing is sparse, poignant , dark and in some senses brutal- the exploration of sexuality and the rawness of finding who you are is unsettling-..ultimately revealing the damage that early events can have on the older self. Empathy with István swings from event to event. What will become of him ? How will he survive the rollercoaster of the lifestyle he joins? This novel reflects the world today - the ideal of money, success and prosperity equating to success and the fallacy of it all. A powerful and provocative read.

God this book just absolutely broken me. It was exquisitely written, following a man from the age of 15 where he begins an act that changes the course of the rest of his life. Each chapter jumps ahead a few years in time and we follow up him until he is well into late adulthood. Reading a book just about a man growing up seems boring but the things that happen in this are so distressing and sad, I was completely hooked and couldn’t tear myself away. It’s such a compelling read with characters that come to life and are very easy to her emotionally attached to. I highly recommend this, it’s a perfect example of literary fiction that takes the ordinary and makes it fascinating and horrifying to read about. It left me so sad at the end but what a journey.

The first chapter of Flesh sets the template. At 15 years old, our protagonist István is groomed into a sexual relationship with a female neighbour more than twice his age. This is something that happens to István; he goes along with it. He is powerless (obviously – he’s a child), but he’s also passive, ambivalent: he feels both disgust and desire towards the woman, and they cancel each other out into a flat, grudging acceptance, a shrug, an ‘okay’. And we understand that, from there, a pattern is established that repeats throughout his life. (Underlined when a piece of dialogue from the first chapter is repeated almost word for word towards the end (I love you/Stop saying that), except the speakers have switched roles, and now it’s István brushing off a younger partner.) If good things happen, István accepts them. If bad things happen, István accepts them. As the story progresses through about 40 years of István’s life, this approach varies in its plausibility: maybe it’s a failure of my imagination, but I find it hard to swallow the notion of someone entering the upper echelons of the super-wealthy entirely by accident. (This particular jump between chapters reminded me of the mid-book break in Katie Kitamura’s Audition, actually, the way the reader is dropped into a radically different dynamic without any opportunity to consider its mechanics. A device you might consider clever or lazy. I wasn’t convinced by Szalay’s version, although of course they’re working towards different narrative goals.) Much has been said about the sparse straightforwardness of Szalay’s prose here. The style is distinctive in other ways, too: short, broken-up paragraphs; often eschewing commas; occasionally informal when you expect it to be otherwise. It gives a greater sense of thought and/or speech than what one might usually expect from a novel written in third person, and this adds to the feeling of being inside István’s head yet remaining at an impassable distance, and the sense that he refuses to engage with himself, to assign any weight to any particular feeling. While writing this up, I thought about Johanna Hedmann’s The Trio and how much it annoyed me because the characters acted like they had no agency over their own lives or even their thoughts, something I found unbelievable in that particular case. Szalay also depicts one such character, but he does so successfully. Even though we might find István’s inertia frustrating at points, we understand it, I think. The passivity is the whole point. Flesh is a novel I find very interesting – and easy – to think about. It's precisely because it's so inscrutable that it’s so interesting. It's easy to project things onto István, both as a reader and as a character in the book, as many of those who meet him find. In the end I found it excellent really – quietly affecting; the blurb describes it as ‘propulsive, hypnotic’, and it is. And we do get a sense of some greater emotion towards the end, even if it is literally (for István) too little, too late.

Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize. This would have been a five star read for me but there are parts of the book that were, perhaps “annoying” is the best word to use. The clunky dialogue! I know that it’s intentional but to continually read “I don’t know” and “okay” in multiple conversations was starting to do my head in. Istvan, the main character, brings inarticulate to an entirely new level. And again, I know this is intentional from Szalay but it’s tiresome to read. You could randomly open the book and there is a likely chance that you will hit one of these conversations. Ahhhhhhhrrrrr. I felt no connection to the main character. Not a likeable character by any means, but I didn’t care. What I did like is the way Szalay used the chapter changes to jump forward in time. Abrupt changes in which the reader is unaware of the parts of Istvan’s life that have occurred between chapters. This works brilliantly in the last chapter. Essentially this is a novel about the life of a man, the choices he makes, the changes to his life that these choices lead to. This is a melancholy novel full of loss, but surprisingly not an equal amount of sadness. It is a novel about Masculinity and male lust. Many of Istvan’s choices result from sexual encounters he has, most with married women. Many he states he finds unattractive and yet still has sex. “Flesh” a most appropriate title. Looking back in hindsight most of his important life choices and changes start with desires of the flesh. Despite the clunky dialogue and the lack of empathy for the main character. The writing is spartan, almost clinical, again adding to the whole mundane and melancholy vibe that pervades the entire novel. The last chapter of this novel changed my feelings, no spoilers, and I did end up enjoying it.

Incredibly beautiful writing. A stunning example of realism literature.

Book 2 of my Booker Prize longlist challenge, each year I dedicate my time to reading all the books on the booker longlist/shortlist so I can attempt to predict the winner. (Key word here is attempt) This has led me to read some incredible books, pushing me out of my comfort zone & expanding my taste. Flesh is a tough one to review, I enjoyed this. But the protagonist was not an enjoyable voice to follow. Unlikeable, stoic & frustrating. However, the feeling of loneliness was really left etched into my bones. I often thought of John Williams "Stoner" when reading this, I feel like its similar in some ways. The passive, quiet & stoic main character. I think you have to sit with this for a while to enjoy its charm, first impressions leave you with a sour taste in your mouth but eventually after marinating in the story I developed a deeper fondness for it. Seems to be the case for alot of other readers as well. I have a feeling this will be a high contender for the winner...

Flesh (2025) is another winner from David Szalay. The title Flesh is multifaceted, hinting at the carnal aspects of protagonist István's life, his physical existence, and the various idioms associated with the word. István's body and his interactions with others' bodies often precede his own understanding or thoughts, making his physicality central to his experience. István’s life takes him from his quiet Hungarian hometown, into the army, and eventually to the privileged world of London's super rich. Throughout the book István is largely uncommunicative and passive. His lack of expression belies a complex internal world of unresolved trauma which makes him surprisingly relatable and sympathetic. István's trajectory is something of a rollercoaster but, at its heart, this seems to be a novel all about his unaddressed trauma with István almost a bystander to his own life. Szalay's spare approach to character development and narrative structure, complete with unexplained time jumps, results in a book in which the reader has to fill in a lot of gaps. I found it all affecting and memorable. 4/5 From Booker Prize 2025 winner David Szalay, a propulsive, hypnotic novel, about a man whose future is derailed by a series of events that he is unable to control.

I know that this year’s winner of the Booker prize, “Flesh” by David Szalay, is a controversial book with equal populations of admirers and haters. And I am not really sure why I liked it so much as I normally like plot driven books (and let’s face it, this one doesn’t have a strong plot), but I think that the work the writer has done in exploring the main character’s psyche is remarkable. The book follows István, a 15 year old adolescent living in a working-class estate in Hungary, who, out of loneliness forms a sexual relationship with a 40+ year old woman in his neighborhood. This sets his life on an unpredictable course and his trajectory spans decades and different countries, from joining the army to becoming a part of the high society in London, with periods of isolation, complicated relationships, family issues and incidents of massive fortune or even loss. Szalay’s prose is really simple and I barely found quotes that I liked; still, it is written in a way that feels as if we, the readers, need to fill István’s silence gaps, and for some reason this has worked very well with me. On many occasions I felt invited to actively interpret what the main character thinks, means or feels and that felt quite empowering as an experience. The end was plain and stoical, which was exactly what I needed in order to complete István’s story. This is a book about masculinity and male stereotypes. Men trapped in their manhood, emotional detachment and the difficulty of expressing emotions. About male identity, power, restraint and silence. Shame and self hatred originating from manhood. A story about class and social mobility. Political scandals and the capitalistic society. Financial stability, investments that fail and economical disasters. About the life in armed forces, war, and post traumatic stress. Violence, hatred and bullying. It is also a book about migration and belonging. Shifting cultural contexts, the living conditions of migrants and the difficulties fitting in. A story about sexual emancipation, desire and pleasure. Naked attraction, fantasies and intimacy. Mostly though this is a book about our body and physical familiarity. Affection and our physical needs. The privacy of our lives and solitude. How the people we interact with change us and the physicality of our existence. Why should you read “Flesh”? Because you will think of all those surprising new things our body wants during adolescence. Because you will realize how your first sexual experience stigmatizes you for the rest of your life. Because you will be amazed of what women find attractive in men. Because you will accept how easy it is to mix love with lust. Because you will acknowledge that people can do a lot of things for financial stability. Because you will reflect on all the ordinary moments and catastrophic changes that shaped your life. Favorite quotes: “There’s something terrible about the way normality asserts itself. About the way that summer insists on happening. About the way the chestnuts blossom and Wimbledon takes place”.

4.5 The clean, emotionless prose is perfect fot this very intense story (of male solitude, ultimately). The author may have been born in Canada and raised in London, but he sounds perfectly Hungarian to me and he reminded me of some of my favourite writers (the sorts of Agota Kristóf). [Longlisted for this year's Booker prize and, according to their quizz, it should be my top choice].

David Szalay has developed a niche in that he writes about men at the crossroads and how the experience makes or breaks them. In the other two of his books that I've read, he has consistently honed this angle and here continues it. István and his mother begin their lives in Hungary where his affair at age 15 with a married neighbor leads to dire circumstances and a rapid coming of age. Szalay writes with an almost dispassionate reserve, with clipped responses that belie the turmoil beneath the surface. Stages of István's life are reached through seemingly arbitrary leaps, but the inner life is examined microscopically in beautiful prose. I'll continue reading his books as long as he continues writing.

The Pear Field is a book which almost demands to be read in one sitting, and I don't mean that as a compliment; this is one of those books that names every minor character who's as much as mentioned one single time, and it's so much to keep track of that it's a more efficient use of your time as a reader to read it all at once rather than coming back to it and having to figure out who everyone is all over again. That said, that was really my only complaint in a book that I otherwise quite enjoyed. The Pear Field follows Lela, an eighteen-year-old girl who works at a boarding school for poor, intellectually disabled, and/or unwanted children, who becomes obsessed with the idea of an American family adopting Irakli, a nine-year-old student she's quite protective over. This book is a stark and gritty portrait of a group of students on the fringes of Georgian society; I found it moving and eye-opening but skillfully not emotionally manipulative, given its difficult subject matter. Definitely worth reading. Huge trigger warnings for sexual assault of a minor.

The Pear Field is the last book in Peirene Press’ Closed Universe series (for the uninitiated Peirene Press publish 3 books a year with a loose theme in mind) and it could well be my favourite from this publisher. The setting is The School of Intellectually Disabled Children which is located in Georgia. An institute where children who are abandoned by their parents are sent. The narrator is Lela, a resident who, legally, could leave but doesn’t. Really the only source of freedom, if the child is under legal age, is when there is a call for adoption or the parent (considering the circumstances) wants the child back. Finally a U.S. couple want to adopt one of the children and Lela campaigns for one of the boys to leave. Honestly plot is not that important in The Pear Field. I saw the book as a character study. How the different children interact with each other. In some cases this can be disturbing, with one particular initiation rite coming to mind or the role of the pear tree in the narrative. In some cases it can be endearing, such as Lela’s ‘quest’ The book is also about societal change; the communist and post communist Georgia. According to Lela, Georgia’s independence led to a change in attitudes, especially in the running of the school and the types of teachers who would pass through it’s doors. There’s a lot pitch black humor here peppered by some tragic moments. I guess one could say that the school a metaphor for life, with it’s ups and downs? One could also say that The Pear Field is a book about breaking free. For a such a short book, there’s quite a bit to pick apart. Once again Peirene Press have managed to come up finding hidden gems and giving them flowing translations so us readers can have a snapshot of a country. As I stated The Pear Field may be one of their stand outs.

Intense reading experience.

3.5 rounded to 4

** WINNER of the 2024 Booker Prize ** I’ve long been in awe of the night sky, of laying back and losing oneself beneath a sky spattered with cosmic light. There is something comforting about being pulverized by the immensity of a sky vaster than even the wildest aspirations of first loves, to feel miniscule in the magnitude of the universe and find that what may feel momentous to your life at the time seems washed away in its enormity. This sense of awe permeates every page of Samantha Harvey’s Orbital chronicling 24 hours in the lives of six people aboard an international space station as it traverses the ‘ballroom of space’ around the planet. It is a quiet novel with little to call a “plot”—no wars erupt, the station is not visited by technological failures or extraterrestrial visitors which is just as well because ‘if you’re an astronaut you’d rather not ever be news. ’ This lack of narrative tension is hardly missed in the sheer beauty of Harvey’s prose that makes it practically a ponderous poem of a novel as we orbit perspectives into each character’s reflections as they in turn orbit the Earth as ‘humans with a godly view and that’s the blessing and also the curse.’ Occasionally tedious though breathtaking in its delivery, Orbital moves through philosophical and heartfelt investigations into ideas of perspective and the wonder of our fragile existence caught up in both self-destruction and discovery spinning on a tiny, living orb in the vastness of the universe. ‘The earth is a mother waiting for her children to return, full of stories and rapture and longing. Their bones a little less dense, their limbs a little thinner. Eyes filled with sights that are difficult to tell.’ Harvey’s Orbital is an achievement in packaging a long litany of human aspirations and struggles, desires and damage into the tiny window of its pages. It is less a narrative than a gaze back at the Earth along with the astronauts with a prose to harness their awestruck reverence for the planet while also a reminder to just be, to observe, to not need narrative or structure and still be able to learn from what is around us. In a recent interview with NPR, Harvey recalled collecting quotes from astronauts as a child, such as one from a Russian cosmonaut about how he never truly understood the word “round” until looking at the Earth from orbit. ‘There's a sense of one's senses and one's perception being redefined by being in space,’ she explains, ‘it's not just that things have a certain clarity, but our terms of reference are redefined,’ and the impetus for Orbital was to construct a book about observing the Earth from above in the ways nature writing looks at birds and landscapes. Perception winds its way through the book as a central theme as each character finds themselves mulling over their lives and now distant homes from orbit. Harvey gracefully ropes in the famous photograph by astronaut Michael Collins of the Apollo 11 lunar lander drifting in front of the earth and moon. ‘Every single other person currently in existence, to mankind’s knowledge,’ Harvey writes of the photograph, ‘is contained in that image; only one is missing, he who made the image.’ Such is the nature of the astronauts reflections on the planet as they weigh their own lives and achievements against the world, which Harvey best addresses through a brief discourse on Diego Velázquez’s painting Las Meninas. Who is the subject of the painting, the king and queen seen only in reflection, the little girl at the center, the painter staring back at the audience, or, perhaps, are we the subject simply by gazing. It is a perfect example of the philosophical and emotional states of each of these characters. ‘Our lives here are inexpressibly trivial and momentous at once…Both repetitive and unprecedented. We matter greatly and not at all. To reach the pinnacle of human achievement only to discover that your achievements are next to nothing and to understand this is the greatest achievement of any life, which itself is nothing, and also much more than everything.’ The nature of their stay and how ‘space shreds time to pieces’ further impacts the ideas on perspectives, such as how they are told to awake each day and definitively tell themselves it is a new day despite each 24 hour cycle making them witness to 16 sunrises and sunsets through their orbits. ‘Raw space is a panther, feral and primal; they dream it stalking through their quarters,’ and each is affected by their journey, missing home, missing the funeral of a loved one, missing family, feeling lonely even when surrounded in close quarters by their newfound ‘floating family’ although ‘in some ways they’re not really a family at all – they’re both much more and much less than that.’ It is an honor to be there, though also quite the emotionally arduous honor to bear: ‘Up here, nice feels such an alien word. It’s brutal, inhuman, overwhelming, lonely, extraordinary and magnificent. There isn’t one single thing that is nice.’ While speaking with The Guardian, Harvey mentions Virginia Woolf as a major influence (she is often compared to Woolf in the press) and while she hadn’t had The Waves in mind while writing Orbital, she now sees the parallels and ‘the way voices surface and dissipate. Of The Waves, Woolf wrote to her friend Goldsworthy Lowes Dickinson that‘the six characters were supposed to be one,’ six facets of consciousness, and in many ways we can view Harvey’s six orbiting characters in a similar fashion. Harvey sways us through each other their thoughts as they deal with the passing of time, writing lists of of irritating or reassuring things from earth, discussing what they miss, questioning how one could see the Earth from orbit and believe in a God while another questions how one could not believe, while filtering it through with other brief perspectives such as ancient seafarers for whom the ocean was not unlike space. Not much happens beyond the pristine prose instilling you with awe, making it akin to Becky Chambers’s To Be Taught if Fortunate (though with less plot and no dramatic conclusion) and even if it feels overly long for a short novel, that acknowledgement of the lethargy puts you in the mindset of the astronauts for whom time now feels unsteady. ‘What can we do in our abandoned solitude but gaze at ourselves? Examine ourselves in endless bouts of fascinated distraction, fall in love and in hate with ourselves, make a theatre, myth and cult of ourselves. Because what else is there?’ There is a sense of hope and togetherness in Orbital which contrasts with the dread of the planet below ransacked and razed from the ‘politics of growing and getting.’ Though what use are international tensions and politics for a crew that must drink each others recycled urine regardless of nation, race or creed? Still, the terrors of violence from wars, greed, climate crisis are more are felt even if distant from space. ‘Maybe humankind is in the late smash-it-all-up teenage stage of self-harm and nihilism, because we didn’t ask to be alive, we didn’t ask to inherit an earth to look after, and we didn’t ask to be so completely and unjustly darkly alone.’ Even from above we must all confront the harsh reality that ‘wherever mankind goes it leaves some kind of destruction behind it.’ The earth is our home and ‘we couldn’t survive a second without its grace, we are sailors on a ship on a deep, dark unswimmable sea.’ Yet there is also the lingering awareness of the space station and its crew as symbolic of human achievement, of our endless striving for survival, able to carry on even once we’ve destroyed the planet. It calls to mind the poem This World is Not Conclusion from Emily Dickinson that begins: This World is not Conclusion. A Species stands beyond - Invisible, as Music - But positive, as Sound - If anything, that is the large hope to be garnered from Orbital, though it is also the tiny hopes—the appreciation for the small lights seen from space, the awareness of loved ones amidst the landscape, the rug one will buy upon return—that add up to something greater than its parts. ‘We exist now in a fleeting bloom of life and knowing, one finger-snap of frantic being, and this is it. This summery burst of life is more bomb than bud. These fecund times are moving fast.’ A short novel that takes its time slowly orbiting your thoughts along with the crew, Orbital by Samantha Harvey is devastatingly gorgeous in its prose and profundity. Engaging in its delivery even though its sustained instillation of awe can become a bit cumbersome as a novel, Orbital puts the reader right alongside the astronauts to gaze at our planet and wonder what we would think of ourselves were we to gaze back. Moving and poetically brilliant, this was quite the lovely read that will make you feel both great and small all at once. 3.5/5 ‘How are we writing the future of humanity? We’re not writing anything, it's writing us. We’re windblown leaves. We think we’re the wind but we’re just the leaf.’

The winner of the 2024 Booker Prize has been announced, and it is Orbital by the female writer Samantha Harvey. From the title and cover, it's easy to guess that this is a book about space, the universe, or astronauts. Let's start with the reading difficulty. The book is quite thin because the main plot revolves around a single day in the life of 6 astronauts on the International Space Station (ISS). Throughout this day, the ISS orbits the Earth 16 times, and each chapter of the book details these 16 orbits. Since the book contains a lot of aerospace - related technical terms, and we know astronauts conduct various experiments in space - biology, chemistry, medicine, physics, and more - there are many specialized terms in these fields as well. If you have a strong vocabulary in these areas, the reading difficulty is manageable. If not, you will need to be patient. I am very curious about the work of astronauts. I often wonder about their state of being in space, what they talk about, what they do, and whether their worldviews differ significantly from those on Earth since they have the "God's eye view." This book perfectly satisfies my curiosity about space travel. Its subject matter and perspective are highly intriguing to me. What I appreciate most is that the book’s plot does not include typical science fiction or other novel elements, such as encounters with aliens or significant accidents. The plot of this novel is very routine, without dramatic twists and turns or mind - bending settings. It mainly details the daily lives of the 6 astronauts in space, including their meals, living conditions, and individual psychological activities. This is exactly what I wanted to see. The most fluctuating part of the book is the psychological activities of each astronaut. Although the degree and details of their psychological activities differ, they mainly reflect on their lives on Earth and reconsider those memories while in space. Those of us who have flown internationally may have experienced this to some extent. At higher altitudes, the people and buildings on the ground disappear, and even the invisible borders between countries vanish from our minds, leaving only a complete world, a unified Earth. All emotions experienced in life, work, friendships, family, and conflicts tend to calm down. It’s like how, after the water flows out of a gold panner's pan, the sand and gold grains clearly reveal themselves. This feeling is even more pronounced over 400 kilometers above Earth in outer space. This is the greatest resonance I felt with the plot of the book. The New York Times review of this book, as well as reports from various media about its award, used similar descriptions: Harvey writes in a poetic or lyrical language. This is very accurate. Her proficiency in using the English language is high, allowing me to appreciate her linguistic talent. As this book is about the astronauts' daily lives, Harvey’s ability to write mundane daily life in such poetic and lyrical language is impressive. While reading, I found many great quotes. I won't quote them here, but if you are interested, you can read the book yourself. Orbital is still relatively new, and the points that resonate and touch each reader's soul might differ. I don't want my personal preferences to influence anyone who are initially interested in this book. The astronauts in this book are on the International Space Station, so there are no astronauts from China, as they are on their own space station. Often watching news about Chinese astronauts and their space station, I felt a strange sense of familiarity while reading this book. When the book describes the astronauts' living environments and the various experiments they conduct, I can accurately imagine the environment and objects on the space station. This feeling is quite magical. 4 / 5 stars

“The mind is in a dayless freak zone, surfing earth’s hurtling horizon. Day is here, and then they see night come upon them like the shadow of a cloud racing over a wheat field. Forty-five minutes later here comes day again, stampeding across the Pacific. Nothing is what they thought it was.” This beautifully written novel about six men and women orbiting earth for nine months confirmed how I feel daily – that conflicting sense that in the grand scheme of things, I matter not at all and also very much. If you’re looking for a space adventure filled with tension, science and action, then this book won’t satisfy you on those terms. What Samantha Harvey has penned is cerebral and contemplative. Despite the speed at which these characters orbit earth (sixteen orbits in one day), the pace of the book is quite slow. It’s a slim book that made me slow down my reading so I could reflect on my own thoughts, my own purpose. The reverence held by these astronauts and cosmonauts for the earth is palpable and sublimely illustrated through Harvey’s prose. It sometimes veers towards the sensual, which I liked. “You could never really comprehend the stars, but the earth you could know in the way you know another person, in the way he came quite studiedly and determinedly to know his wife. With a yearning that’s hungry and selfish. He wishes to know it, inch by inch.” We spend a small amount of time with each of these characters. We view the mundaneness of their daily orbiting lives. We learn of the effects of microgravity on their bodies, the psychological effects of viewing their home planet from above and the infinite vastness of outer space from their spacecraft windows. Their backgrounds are revealed to us. We catch glimpses of their relationships on earth, how they are coping with being away from family. We understand a bit about their relationships with one another. Harvey doesn’t preach to the reader about the existence or non-existence of a God or some higher being. She does show us, however, through a couple of her characters at least, how views differ about the idea of creation. “She’d point out of the port and starboard windows where the darkness is endless and ferocious. Where solar systems and galaxies are violently scattered… Look, she’d say. What made that but some heedless hurling beautiful force? And he would point… and he would say: what made that but some heedful hurling beautiful force? Is that all the difference there is between their views, then – a bit of heed?... The difference seems both trivial and insurmountable.” Despite the obvious limitations and costs, perhaps if every single person on this planet (or maybe our world leaders for a start) could be launched into space for a several month orbit of the earth, more people would come away realizing the hubris of their vanities, desires and greed. The reliance on one another for survival and companionship, despite nationalities and belief systems, might convince a few of them, at least, that this is in essence, all about humanity. Man-made borders do not exist from space, and to survive on this planet governed by the violent forces of nature, this planet that is just a minuscule part, a tiny “dot” existing within an entire universe, one might truly grasp the truth that this is not an “us versus them” scenario. We might realize this on an intellectual level, but for some reason it seems to stay in the head and not truly felt. I suppose experience is the best teacher. “You’ll see no countries, just a rolling indivisible globe which knows no possibility of separation, yet alone war. And you’ll feel yourself pulled in two directions at once. Exhilaration, anxiety, rapture, depression, tenderness, anger, hope, despair. Because of course you know that war abounds and that borders are something that people will kill and die for.” I truly admired this book for the way it made me think. Not that these are completely original ideas. I’ve thought about our tiny planet in the grand scheme of things. I’ve considered my own place and purpose and usefulness plenty of times. Having this kind of reminder and absorbing the beauty of Samantha Harvey’s writing craft doesn’t hurt though. One thing I felt lacking was a fully realized connection to any of the characters. Harvey managed to convey her ideas through them effectively, yet I found them to be simply that – vehicles for these ideas. Ideas that I fully respect and agree with, but just the same I would have loved this even more had I been shown more depth of her characters. Perhaps the length of the novel had something to do with this. In only 200 pages, one can’t share the intellectual ideas and develop six main characters to the extent that I crave. That’s not a criticism but a personal preference. I still highly recommend this novel to anyone that loves to meditate about his or her place on this planet. Or anyone that thinks they are above all that – but those vain creatures won’t touch a book like this with a ten-foot pole! “And in time we come to see that not only are we on the sidelines of the universe but that it’s of a universe of sidelines, that there is no centre, just a giddy mass of waltzing things, and that perhaps the entirety of our understanding consists of an elaborate and ever-evolving knowledge of our own extraneousness, a bashing away of mankind’s ego by the instruments of scientific enquiry until it is, that ego, a shattered edifice that lets light through.”

This is a great book for the right reader. I was told that it is philosophical. It most definitely is. I would add that it is poetic, reflective, meditative. The descriptions are a feast for the senses. it is not plot driven speculative adventure. Instead it is an attempt to portray the experience of astronauts orbiting the earth repeatedly. We watch them perform their scientific experiments and interact with each other to a certain extent. But much of the book portrays the astronaut experience of watching the earth, the experience of being unable to change what they see. This book tries to get at the sights and sounds and felt lived experience of being in orbit in a cramped vehicle as a highly trained group of professionals. We share their thoughts and perceptions. This book is beautifully written and it made me think and feel. It's scientific fiction but it is realistic fiction set in space, not science fiction in the speculative sense. This book suggests now, not the far future.

Felt like I was in space orbiting the earth!

"Around here, people don't just disappear - it's rare someone opts for a beam and a rope, more often it's a gradual demise. They're not consumed by sorrow in a single moment, but throughout their lives, little by little, until suddenly they have nothing to breathe, they collapse."

most certainly my favourite collection of short stories yet

‘Permission to Land.’ Evocation of the deepest sunset that makes people disappear, by staring up at it. Beautiful. Most recently I saw the red sky in ‘Mishima,’ there was a pink one in ‘Made in Hong Kong’! And the “human” I see is a besuited businessman caught in a reverie. “The redness confuses the humans more than the animals, they look up at the sky more often than usual, then clench their fists and keep walking, but if you stopped them and asked: "Where'd you go?", they couldn't tell you. They'd just stand there, like they'd been roused from a deep sleep, their mouths open. On days like that, Pilot would go up the hill with a shovel and see where he could start digging.” ‘Crow Road,’ family saga vibes. Small and abridged peephole into the narrator’s domestic world. [Seems to be the intention of the book.] ‘The Little Bell.’ This is ready for a (Fassbinderish) Zanussi adaptation. Simply extend/fill in the middle part by 70 minutes worth. Grandma’s monologue is melodrama and screen ready. I’d easily make this my Poland film. ‘On Cemetery Hill.’ This image: “On Saturday afternoon, when Andrzej is walking through the village, the girls are carefully washing their hair. In the daylight, the drops of water shimmer on their skin just as they do on the petals and stems of plants in the morning.” Likening human bodies to flora to great effect.

I didn’t ask you to leave, I said. It was your idea, and if you didn’t want to get your feet wet, love, you shouldn’t have embarked. I didn’t push you into the water, I didn’t fetch you from your village or field or ruin of a suburb and put you in your wretched leaky boat, and now the water’s up to your ankles, I get it that you’re frightened, and you want me to save you and you’re impatient. You’re counting on me. But I didn’t ask you for any of that. So you’ll just have to grin and bear it and let me get on with my job. Small Boat is the defensive detached perspective of a French marine rescue operator who didn't send out a patrol to rescue a small boat sinking in the English Channel with twenty-nine people. Over the course of three hours. Not to mention what seems to be deliberate miscommunications with the English marine rescue as well as a passing cargo ship. More likely I thought that the English would just have to work something out because by this point they weren’t our migrants, they were their migrants. In fact, these people, who were neither French nor English, were nonetheless more English than French now. As the introduction states, Vincent Delecroix’s compelling novel raises the unsettling possibility that each of us is complicit in the suffering of migrants. The introspective stream-of-consciousness novella delves into the operator's prejudices, or non-prejuduces as she would have you believe, starting from the first assessment of the situation - the current will have pushed the boat the last half mile into English waters by the time the rescue arrives, so call the English rescue - all the way up to the last desperate call from the sinking refugees where she still tells them to calm down. But you just find that annoying: it’s annoying because they keep on and on calling you over those three hours, instead of just putting up with it. It’s annoying when they beg for help, when they repeat fourteen times over that they’re going to die and you’ve got to do something. I can quite see that must be annoying – idiots saying the same thing a thousand times over like children, as if they were misunderstanding, instead of taking a step back, calming down and sinking in silence. A challenging novella, Small Boat looks into the mindset of some people with deeply racist and nationalist views in the current political landscape, even though they might not appear to be racist and nationalist on the surface and have rescue operator training behind them. The novella is open-ended and is a bit unclear on how much the events affected the operator given the probably close-to-reality character sketch shown here, especially with her blatant refusal to assume moral and ethical responsibility for her lies and misdirections over the course of events. However, it is a good platform for raising the question of why such views and prejudices should be tolerated and debated when it comes to immigrants on the roads, when they clearly seem inhuman applied to sinking refugees. Why should they be swept under the rug when it comes to human rights and dignity, when they are interrogated in the case of lives drowned? Which words, what tone of voice set me beyond the pale of humanity? 🌟🌟🌟🌟 [3/4 star for the premise and the whole book; 3/4 star for the character sketch; One star for the world-building and context description; Half a star for the story and conclusion; One star for the writing - Four stars in total.]

I don't know what happened to my review, but I hope this will win the International Booker.

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Genre: Literary Fiction Summary So, Small Boat starts off with this almost painfully simple scene: a tiny inflatable boat loaded with migrants, cutting across the English Channel at night. It’s immediately clear that this isn’t going to be some romantic adventure. The people on board—Kurds, Africans, women, and all different nationalities and different ages—are just trying to survive. You can almost feel the weight of desperation in every cramped, cold, wet inch of that boat. And honestly, it hits differently knowing that this isn’t fiction, but something that truly happened. It feels like it could happen again tomorrow. Then the story shifts in a way that kind of surprised me. We meet a French coast guard officer, who’s under investigation for the deaths of twenty-seven migrants. Suddenly, the narrative becomes her voice—defensive, philosophical, self-justifying—and you’re stuck inside her head. It’s uncomfortable, but in a way that works. You start to notice that the tragedy isn’t just about the people on the boat; it’s also about the systems and bureaucracies that quietly allow this kind of thing to happen. The plot of this story doesn’t rely on twists or dramatic revelations. Instead, it lingers on important questions like accountability, empathy, and how human lives are reduced to numbers in reports. The officer is constantly circling around guilt, but never quite landing on it. You can almost hear her convincing herself as much as anyone else. By the time you finish, you’re left with this lingering, heavy feeling. The book doesn’t let you off easy. The horror isn’t just in the drownings, but in the casual way the world seems to shrug and move on. It’s a bit bleak, but it also makes you think in a way most books don’t. This was a boat, and we have already seen how a whole civilization was starved and bombed day and night, with all the superpowers shamelessly repeating, “XYZ has the right to defend itself.” This book highlights an example of the world we are living in. Characters The migrants themselves are barely sketched out, which I’ll admit frustrated me at first. But then I realized that might be the point: they’re supposed to be anonymous, swallowed by the systems that erase their individuality. There are little flashes, but nothing is fully fleshed out. And weirdly, that made them linger in my head more than if we’d gotten full backstories. The coast guard officer, on the other hand, is front and center, and she’s… complicated, cold, defensive, and sometimes philosophical to the point of pretension. I hated her at times, but I also found myself fascinated. She’s not a cartoon villain; she’s a product of a system that teaches you to numb yourself to human suffering just to function. Like, just do your job. Watching her dodge responsibility is uncomfortable in a way that sticks with you. Writing Style Delecroix writes in this stripped-down, almost minimalist way that’s kind of relentless. It’s mostly the officer’s first-person monologue, which pulls you inside her head but also makes it feel claustrophobic. The sentences are sometimes short, clipped, or repetitive, which at first annoyed me, but then it started to make sense. You can see her circling around guilt, hesitating, and rationalizing. The style itself becomes part of the story’s tension. Setting The English Channel looms over everything, not so much as a backdrop but almost like another character. Calm, cold, indifferent. It’s like the sea itself is judging no one, letting tragedy happen anyway. The French beach where the migrants leave from feels deliberately anonymous, as if such an event could happen anywhere, to anyone. That vagueness makes it hit harder, I think. Atmosphere The atmosphere is really heavy. There’s this constant tension between real human suffering and the sterile, procedural way institutions treat it. You will find yourself trapped, not by walls, but by the officer’s rationalizations, her self-justifying monologue. Even though the sea is wide and open, the story somehow manages to be more claustrophobic. Final Thoughts I’d give Small Boat four stars. It’s not exactly a feel-good read, and it might frustrate some people with its clipped style and evasive narrator. But honestly, that’s kind of the point. Delecroix wants you to sit with discomfort, and he doesn’t let you escape. There’s a sharpness to it that stays with you long after you close the book. That said, sometimes the minimalism feels like it works against the story. The migrants remain faceless, which risks the very erasure the book is trying to critique. Still, the questions it raises about empathy, accountability, and human indifference linger in a way most novels don’t. Not an easy recommendation, but if you’re up for sitting with unease for a while, it’s worth it. Many thanks to NetGalley and the publishers for the ARC of this book. The review is here: https://constantinebooks.blogspot.com/2025/12/small-boat.html

ARC received from publisher I was honestly worried after looking this one up and seeing the ratings from French readers on GR. I went in with an open mind and was totally sucked in (I would suggest skipping the second half of the introduction until you finish the book). A fictionalized imagining of a real life tragedy, a dinghy carrying migrants sinks in the English Channel; confusion on who’s responsible emerges. The book doesn’t focus on the migrants journey, instead we’re in the mind of the radio operator working that night after the fallout of, to some, callousness or, to her, calmness. In her mind she was just doing her job, which requires her to be rational and logical, to treat every boat equally. There’s just enough wiggle room, enough evidence, enough defensiveness to doubt her. Stream of consciousness is used to stellar effect. The repetitiveness, the rumination, the self-interrogation weigh her down. We all need to look hard into the mirror Delecroix is placing in front of us. It’s easy to put it all on one person, to be outraged by the death of 27 people in one night. And yet, what about the daily apathy to what is right in front of us, the homeless in our towns, the daily atrocities in the news, the alternate reality most of us seem to be living in. When and where does our complicity begin? This was a thought provoking and propulsive story. One that makes us ask ourselves deep questions rather than provide easy answers. The framing, the narrative voice, the migrants voices receiving the shortest section; these were some risky choices here, but the payoff was worth it.

The International Booker longlist this year has a number of short novels exploring big themes. 'Small boat' looks at the migration crisis from the perspective of an operator of the French marine emergency rescue service. It is based on a real disaster in which 27 people drowned in the Channel. What made the disaster even more shocking were the audio tapes of the rescue operator, who not only screws up, but is also talking to herself, saying these people won't be saved and that it's not her fault if they decide to undertake the dangerous crossing in a flimsy dinghy. Delecroix takes the perspective of the operator and as such holds up a mirror to us readers. You constantly wonder whether the shameful excuses the operator uses, actually apply at a larger scale to all of Western Europe. Really well done (but there are two books on the shortlist that I would rate higher).

Twenty-seven migrants drown while attempting a midnight crossing of the English Channel in a decaying and unsound dinghy. When the light of day reveals the deaths, blame is assigned to the French Coast Guard operator who was in communication with one of the migrants. But who is really to blame in this situation? Is it truly this operator's fault? Is it the fault of the migrant traffickers who supplied such a decrepit boat? Is it the immigrant policies of France and England that caused it? Perhaps a lack of funding to support these nightly crises? Or the imaginary border halfway across the Channel? Is it the fault of wars, famines and economic ruin of the migrants' homelands? Or should we blame the indifferent sea? Delecroix unravels these layers of blame by telling this true story from the fictional perspective of the attending Coast Guard operator. For years, she has seen this same scenario play out nightly on her watch ~ ill-prepared migrants crossing this volatile sea under the cover of night, desperate to reach England where they expect to thrive. Like any military officer, she has been trained to be indifferent and personally removed from any rescue situation. But on this night her indifference is held against her. The transmission recording reveals her words, "Don't you get it? You will not be saved." which investigators point to as an example of critical negligence. The media is holding her uniquely responsible for these 27 deaths. But Delecroix makes us consider if uttering these words really constitutes culpability. This is a moving, philosophical look at the bigger issues at play in this disaster and so many others like it. Delecroix looks at our human impetus to place blame on one person, to have a pariah who can be cast out of our 'pure' society. The loss of a star is due to the omission of quotation marks, which in this book resulted in a true lack of clarity. I had to reread many, many passages in an attempt to understand who was speaking or if the text was a sort of stream-of-consciousness thinking. I suppose the ending clarifies this punctuation choice but, by then, my frustration was solidified. While reading the e-book version, I highlighted some incredible quotes with mind-bending thoughts expressed within: So back we came to me again, and the idea that the cause of their death was - me. In other words, not the sea, not migration policy, not the trafficking mafia. not the war in Syria or the famine in Sudan - me. Empathy, I said to the police inspector, is an idiotic luxury indulged in by people who do nothing, and who are moved by the spectacle of suffering. Hey jerk, see that guy sleeping in a cardboard box at the foot of your building? He's rowing across the tarmac, he's sinking too. But he's not dozens of kilometres out at sea, at dead of night, he is quite easy to geolocate, he's just in front of your feet. So are you going to send him help or is that my job again? I highly recommend this thought-provoking read.

“She said, for example: I get the feeling those twentynine people weren't the only ones who sank that night- which I found quite offensive…as though I felt personally responsible for the death of twenty-seven people….” A dinghy carrying migrants capsizes in the turbulent waters of the English Channel and a rescue operator, the narrator of the story, was interviewed afterwards to establish the sequence of events. “…when the sinking started: that's the real question we need to answer. Because these people were sunk long before they sank. They were washed up well before they drowned….” The investigator replays the recording of the distress call and disapproves of the operator’s words and actions. “I have no problem listening to the recordings of that night and hearing my own voice, because it's not the voice of a monster or a criminal on the tape- it's the voice of all of us….” The operator begins to believe that the investigator was far more troubled by her words than the actual deaths of the migrants. “And if, listening to the recording, the investigator turns her gaze away…sad, devastated look in her eyes, it's because it's not me she'll hear, but herself and everyone along with her, saying: I will not save you, while she wanted to hear me say the opposite- wanted it for herself, for everyone, so humanity could be reassured about itself….” And days after the interview, the rescue operator wonders who said those final words on the night of the tragedy, her or the desperate man in the dinghy. “I could hear nothing, wanted to hear nothing, because I had heard without hearing. I said or he said to me: You're not hearing me, you will not be saved.”

** spoiler alert ** Small Boat is a powerful piece of writing. It is a fictionalised account inspired by the tragic death of 27 migrants who were crossing the channel in 2022. Their boat sank mid-crossing and rescue was not sent in time to save them. If you haven't read the book, don't read this review further because I will spoil it. Our primary narrator worked in the call centre co-ordinating rescue operations, and the story opens with a confrontational interview between her and the investigating officer, trying to establish whether there was negligence or culpability on her part. Throughout, the police officer is disturbed by her lack of empathy and nonchalant attitude. Despite a compellingly readable voice and her fascinatingly bloodless yet grandiloquent philosophising, something feels off. Is this character a sociopath? Her self-justifications don't feel quite right, giving the first section a taut psychology. For a subject so fraught with humanity, reading a narrative with so little is unnerving. Part 2 gives us a heart-rending account of the plight of the migrants, further contrasting with our narrator's seemingly blazé indifference. Then we have Part 3. Part 3 contorts and recontextualises the rest of the book. Gradually we realise that her adversary from Part 1 is, in fact, herself. The reason why her justifications feel so off is because they are all window dressing. She is actually being eaten alive by guilt. Part 1, it now seems, is a conversation she is having with herself and we finally see her as she is: an exhausted woman, wracked with guilt, visualising herself as a monster. Her actions were negligent, driven by empathy fatigue, and meant that 27 people would never be rescued. She knows this and is torturing herself looking for absolution. Her narrative captures how quickly the catastrophic can seem to become mundane and the unbearable weight of responsibility that comes with working a job where you hold the lives of others in your hands. In addition, our narrator is acutely aware of how little difference her actions make in the context of the wider world, and that helplessness spirals out and out in ripples until she implicates both the ocean as well as every one of us. Broadly, this is a book about global inequality and the devastating impact of the collective impact of our refusal to look it in the eye. And it is also about fallibility both on a systemic and individual level. After reading too many comments sections, I only wish this sort of work had a wider readership.

“Small Boat” is one character’s fictional account of a real tragedy: a dinghy full of migrants moving from France to England begins to capsize; stuck between French and English waters, our narrator—who took the distress calls from the migrants—tells them that she cannot provide help, and must call English authorities since they’re sinking in English waters. In both the fictionalized portrayal and reality, 27 migrants died as a result of both sides’ unwillingness to take responsibility for the situation, and for the migrants themselves. This was such a haunting novella, and it feels very timely to read it now given what’s going on in the United States currently. It was a true interrogation into the narrator’s perspective on migrants and willingness to turn a blind eye toward injustice, and the novel made sure to call out the reader, too. Ultimately, “Small Boat” highlights just how easy it is to forget our morals, to fail to empathize with immigrants and their struggles, to analyze how some people can forget their humanity. I liked that it called out complicity, and how effortlessly people can ignore a situation if it doesn’t apply to them, if it isn’t affecting them currently. For such a short novel, it felt a bit repetitive at times, which is why this is a 4-star read, but I definitely think it’s worth the read. Very timely and necessary given the state of our world at the moment. So worth the read.

this book made me deeply uncomfortable, which i think was exactly the point. small boat takes the november 2021 channel crossing tragedy—where 27 migrants drowned after french and british authorities failed to coordinate rescue—and forces you to examine your own complicity in disasters like these. the structure gives us three parts: the coastguard operator being interrogated, refusing to show remorse or accept individual blame. then the migrants themselves, drowning in the channel in heartbreaking prose. then back to the operator dealing with fallout and her psychology. what really got me was how delecroix makes the operator both infuriating and compelling. she keeps asking when the sinking "really" started—when the boat capsized? when they left france? when they fled their countries? when western policies created those conditions? she's cold and detached but her arguments about performative empathy hit hard. the philosophical questions are uncomfortable: where's the line between acknowledging systemic failure and lacking basic empathy? does cold efficiency save more lives than compassionate chaos? delecroix (also a philosopher) doesn't give easy answers, which i appreciated even when it frustrated me. my main issue was the repetitiveness in parts one and three. the operator circles the same justifications over and over with only slight variations in wording. i understand it's probably meant to reflect a guilty mind that won't admit guilt, but it could've been trimmed. the drowning sequence in part two was devastating and the strongest writing, though it almost feels disconnected from the philosophical arguments surrounding it. helen stevenson's translation captures the operator's sarcastic, irritated tone well—loved the adaptation of "gonflés/dégonflés" to "cheeky/leaky." this isn't an easy read despite being short. the style in parts one and three feels almost journalistic and abrasive, which won't work for everyone. but it's supposed to rattle you, to make you question your comfortable assumptions about migration and who's responsible when people die trying to reach safety. i can see why it made the booker longlist even if i don't think it'll make the shortlist. would i recommend it? yes, especially for book clubs that want actual meaty discussion. it's thought-provoking and morally complex, just a bit heavy-handed with the repetition. the kind of book that stays with you uncomfortably. 3.5/5 stars — important and hard-hitting, slightly overcooked, but worth reading.

The war stops someday. The remnants of the wreckage vanish into thin air. Voices of people holding their hands above head to seek help from getting engulfed by seawater no longer echo. Ants stop peeking their heads out of the soup bowl. Hydrangeas bloom. Then come the questions. Is there any shipwreck without spectators? Or, there any war without traitors? Any villains without superheroes? If no one's accused for being a caveman, then why should there be an accountability for being a monster? The book calls out what we call 'Humanity'. A gut-punch that shows we are nothing but a failure. Failed to save, failed to survive.

When I started Small Boat, I thought it would be something completely different — a kind of imagined testimony from the French marine officer who answered the phone call from the refugees, someone who might write everything down as a way of facing guilt or trying to move on. But instead, Delecroix gives us the opposite: the perspective of the woman who never fully grasps, even in hindsight, the brutality of her own words and actions. That’s what makes the book so unsettling — she doesn’t see herself as responsible, while we as readers can’t stop feeling the weight of her words and thoughts, her condescension and indifference towards certain human lives. It was a difficult and challenging book to read, but precisely for that reason, it was worth it. The narrative is disturbing, unrelatable, thought-provoking, and forces us to sit with uncomfortable questions. Honestly, she got into my nerves plenty of times for her superior tone and arrogancy. A clear example: “...as though I felt personally responsible for the death of twenty-seven people, in other words as though I had finally come round to thinking that it was me that asked them leave, told all twenty-nine of them to sail off into the middle of the Channel one winter's night in a rotting dinghy with a one in five chance they'd make it. As though I'd come to her for relief from my tortured conscience, seeking absolution or even a penance that would finally free my conscience from remorse, cleanse my conscience, my soul, from this stain that plagued me (which was perhaps what, in her view explained the surprising aggressiveness of some of my responses)... as though I had turned up here in her office rather than hang myself in my garage.”

A small but mighty powerful book based on actual events that has a French Coast Guard director having to face up to her actions that contributed to the death of 27 people in a small boat capsized in the English Channel. This book explores the notion of culpability, complicity, shame, blame and the many moral and ethical issues surrounding who really is to blame when tragic things happen that might have been preventable. This won the International Booker Prize and I completely understand why. Definitely one to read especially for fans of books like Boat people by Sharon Bala. Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an early audio copy in exchange for my honest review.

a really good take on collective ethics and growing apathy in our world today. this was a very difficult read emotionally, but also a very important one for me. the voice operator is the main perspective and anchor in the story which i think was the best way to show a system collapsing. i thought it was skilfully done to show individual vs collective failures as well! this could be required reading!

4.5. I feel like everyone should read this book. The switch between Part I and Part II really just allows for a the change of perspective that increases this book from good, to powerful. So glad I read this.

The only place I went wrong, he writes, was expecting things to be perfect. I remember being in my early teens in school and our English teacher making us read Anne Tyler's Digging to America. I remember rolling my eyes, along with my classmates, because we were forced to read something so insufferably boring about everyday people living their lives and interacting with each other. So dull. Well, I don't know if it's because I'm on my way to becoming a boring old person these days, but I have been wholly charmed by both of the two Tyler books I've read as an adult. Redhead by the Side of the Road is a little book with a lot of quiet power. A novella, I imagine, though I don't know the exact word count. It's a book about a middle-aged man called Micah Mortimer. He's a self-employed techie with a business aptly called 'Tech Hermit'. He likes order and organization. Everything in his house and in his life has its place and each day is part of a strict cleaning schedule. Thursday, for example, is "kitchen day". Micah exasperates those around him, though he cannot understand their frustration with him. Even his somewhat finicky girlfriend is growing tired of all his ways. It reminds me of several other books that are intimate character portraits of outsiders who struggle to connect with other humans - Eleanor Oliphant Is Completely Fine, A Man Called Ove, for example - but this one is subtler and less sensationalist than either of those (don't get me wrong, I really loved both those books). It is so tempting to look for hidden "messages" in books. And if this book does indeed have a message, I truly cannot decide if it is a caution against perfectionism and rigidity, or instead an appeal for understanding of those oddballs who have their daily lives planned down to the second. The meaning of the title suggests the former and Micah's way of life does hold him back in many ways, but this portrait of him is undeniably a compassionate one. Maybe there is no message. Just a moving story about a person who marches to his own beat. Facebook | Instagram

As a long time fan of Anne Tyler, I was excited to read an advanced copy of her newest novel which takes us back to her beloved Baltimore with another quirky character and I wasn’t disappointed. I couldn’t help but root for Micah Mortimer in spite of his idiosyncrasies. He has a girlfriend that he can’t bring himself to call girlfriend at his age of 44, but a “lady friend”. He has a family filled with sisters and their husbands and children . Yet, from the beginning, Micah in his neat, routine filled life seemed to me to be such a lonely man. Within the first few pages I thought I knew pretty much everything there was to know about Micah - what he looks like, where he lives, what he does for a living, his daily routines, but of course there’s more to learn about this guy. At 44, set in his routines, he really doesn’t want a messy life, both literally in how he keeps his basement apartment and in his relationship and in his connections with people including his family. It feels as if he’s stuck in place, until a young man shows up on his doorstep, thinking that Micah might be his father. Is it too late to to realize just how lonely he is and how distant from the people in his life ? I recommend reading it to see what a wonderful job Tyler does in depicting an everyday life and character and making it feel so important in the landscape of our humanity. Tyler is a prolific writer and I was surprised when I looked back to see that including this one, I have read twenty one of her novels over the years. I’m a fan to say the least and I suspect that other Tyler fans will rejoice with this short but affecting novel. While the stories are different, I couldn’t help but remember how much I loved some of her earlier books, especially Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant and The Accidental Tourist. I received an advanced copy of this book from Knopf Publishing Group through Edelweiss.

Sometimes when he was dealing with people, he felt like he was operating one of those claw machines on a boardwalk, those shovel things where you tried to scoop up a prize but the controls were too unwieldy and you worked at too great a remove. ---------------------------------------- “Sometimes,” she said musingly, “you can think back on your life and almost believe it was laid out for you in advance, like this plain clear path you were destined to take even if it looked like nothing but brambles and stobs at the time. You know?” The Tech Hermit has a life. I guess you could call it that. Micah Mortimer, in his mid-forties, has a modest clientele, and almost makes a living from his house-call tech-support enterprise. In addition, he gets a free apartment in return for being the part-time superintendent in his Baltimore apartment building. He has a schedule he follows slavishly. Monday is floor-mopping day. Tuesday is trash day. Wednesday night he takes out the recycling bins, and dusts his apartment, strips the linens from the daybed and does his laundry. Fridays is vacuuming. He enjoys going out for a run every morning, before the streets become cluttered with people. (A preferred state. He even fantasizes about how great it would be if a neutron bomb left the landscape, but removed all those irritating humans.) He even has an undemanding girlfriend, Cass. Their get togethers are also scheduled. What is not scheduled is that she is suddenly facing eviction, and Micah is too cut off to think he should offer to let her stay with him. And then an eighteen-year-old boy shows up at his apartment, believing Micah to be his father. Definitely not on the schedule. Anne Tyler - image from The Independent The Redhead by the Side of the Road is Micah’s story of being jarred out of a fear-based, inert, complacent existence, and realizing that his very structured existence has left him feeling empty, lonely, and wanting more. But there are reasons why he became the defended creature he is. You would be the same way if you’d been reared in a household where the cat slept in the roasting pan. Tyler’s look at family is always a delight, this one reminiscent of You Can’t Take It With You, or, likelier, many of her prior, award-winning novels. Maybe he was not the right person to be raised the only boy in the family, with several sisters, and a general aura of chaos. Micah always thought that of course his sisters would choose to be waitresses. Restaurants had the same atmosphere of catastrophe that prevailed in their own homes, with pots clanking and glassware clashing and people shouting “Coming through!” and “Watch you head!” and “Help! I’m in the weeds!” A battlefield atmosphere, basically. Not helpful was a bad experience he had in a startup business, the undertaking of which entailed him leaving college early. He has also suffered serial disappointments in his dealings with entities lacking chips. The relationships he got into with women always seemed to end with her leaving and him broken. It gets tough going out there again and again, when it seems that every time you extend a hand, someone cuts it off. Keeping the blinders on is a way of staying safe. Also, a way of staying in place. He hadn’t always thought marriage was messy. But each new girlfriend had been a kind of negative learning experience. Micah’s blinders may keep him from getting that Cass wants him to invite her to move in, and keep him oblivious to the flirtations from the 50-something dating machine in apartment 1B, and the invitations from a Tech Nerd client that have nothing to do with technical support. Jogging sans glasses, he even has trouble seeing clearly things that he passes on his run, a defective I/O system that is definitely in need of repair. I confess I relate to Micah a fair bit, not entirely, thankfully, but enough to matter. I have suffered from a considerable swath of the sort of blindness he experiences, not to say I am exactly all better now, but I was once much, much worse. A tech guy too, although never a super, I was much more comfortable with regularity and order. There was also a blind spot when it came to reading some social clues. When Micah provides tech support to a woman who is clearly flirting with him, it does not register at all. I remember, after my first marriage ended, small flirtations did not exactly register for me, either. A woman in a Pathmark held up two cantaloupes, chest-high, and asked for my help “picking out some melons.” Yes, really. Eye roll please. In a CVS with my daughters, a woman asked for help reaching something on a high shelf. Apparently there was more to the request than I perceived. My older daughter looked impressed, “Wow, that woman was sooo flirting with you. Way to go, Pop.” I had no idea. So, I relate to Micah for his social cluelessness. That obviously banged a gong for me, made me feel for the guy. As did his tech support outings. With the amount of humanity on display in Anne Tyler’s novels, you are always likely to find a place or two where you might be able to plug in as well. Speaking of which, Micah has written a book, First, Plug It In, the title of which warms my old techie heart. But while Micah is very well attuned to the challenges faced by his clients, and even some of the people he encounters, he does not seem able to apply that talent to himself. Micah’s tech outings, and his superintendent outings, for that matter, highlight things that are going on in his life. One client, for example, is hoping that Micah can fix his printer, but it is ancient and wants replacing entirely. As in a change is clearly needed here. In another he finds a solution to a client’s puzzle in poring through some old materials in her home. Maybe something else could use some re-examination? The writing is exquisite, of course, with Tyler offering details that tell us much about her characters. One that made me laugh out loud was when Micah is irked that one of the tenants had, yet again, not flattened out their cardboard refuse, as required by the local sanitation agency, his internal gripe ending with “some people; they just didn’t have a clue.” Sometimes plugging it in is not enough. Second, you also have to switch it on. The question in Redhead… is whether Micah will be able to manage both steps, allow himself to perceive his own painful feelings, then do something about it. He is an appealing character, and you will want to find out if he can manage the necessary repairs to his life. In an interview with Writers Digest, Tyler was asked about the endearing characters that populate her novels: Sometimes I don’t manage to keep them endearing, and if that happens, I ditch them. It takes me two or three years to write a novel. I certainly don’t want to spend all that time living with someone unlikable. One thing about that 24-36 month duration is that the author puts every one of those months to good use. This is a short book, coming in at a crisp 192 pages. Like many masters of her trade, Tyler is adept at honing her output down to only the necessary. She has been living in and writing about Baltimore and families for over fifty years. Redhead by the Side of the Road is her twenty-third novel. She is best known for Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant, her ninth, which was a finalist for both a Pulitzer and a Pen/Faulkner award. Ten times was the charm apparently, as her next one, The Accidental Tourist, won the National Book Critics Circle Award, the Ambassador Book Award, and was a finalist again for the Pulitzer. Number eleven, Breathing Lessons, finally netted her the Pulitzer. If you have read Tyler before, this one will fit like a USB plug into a USB socket. It is short, sweet, and moving. Fans of Matthew Quick will also find this book very appealing. This is one Redhead you will definitely want to pick up. Review first posted – April 3, 2020 Publication date – April 7, 2020 I received a pre-release e-book of this novel from Knopf Doubleday, but I was not entirely certain what they meant by letting me have it. =============================EXTRA STUFF Links to the author’s personal and FB pages Interviews -----Independent – July 6, 2018 - Anne Tyler interview: 'I had no intention of becoming a writer' by Charles McGrath -----The Guardian – July 14, 2018 - Anne Tyler: ‘Wuthering Heights strikes me as silly’ by Lisa O’Kelly -----BookBrowse – 1998 - An interview with Anne Tyler -----Writers Digest - Anne Tyler’s Tips on Writing Strong (yet Flawed) Characters by Jessica Strawser Items of Interest -----An excerpt -----Ralph Waldo Emerson’s Self-Reliance -----You Can’t Take It With You -----Read It Forward – 2016- Where to Start When Reading Anne Tyler by Martin Wilson In an interview in 1976, discussing Faulkner, Tyler said, “If it were possible to write like him I wouldn’t. I disagree with him. I want everyone to understand what I’m getting at.” As Katharine Whittemore wrote of Tyler in a superb essay in the Atlantic in 2001, “She never dazzles or blinds us with her prose. . . . Instead the quiet accretion of her insights hits one in the chest.” -----July 27, 2020 - Redhead is named to the longlist for the Booker Prize And thanks to MC

4 Stars Sometimes, in the Ordinary, lies the Extraordinary. Micah Mortimer is a single man in his mid forties. A self-made man who is the “Super” at the apartment building he resides at, and who also owns his own business: “Tech-Hermit” He lives a simple life and is a creature of habit. In short, he likes what he likes, not that there’s anything wrong with that. The day his lady friend Cass calls and informs him that she’s in danger of losing her apartment, things change in more ways than one. The first, is that she is looking for more support than he can provide and the second is that a teenager shows up at Micah’s apartment in need of help. Each situation puts a strain on Micah’s routine, neither of which he likes. One leaving him feeling unsettled inside and the other disrupting his everyday life. What Anne Tyler does so well here is to show us how to find beauty in regular ordinary life. She navigates the waters of family, relationships and unexplored feelings in a simple thought provoking way. “Redhead by the Side of the Road” is a well written, character driven novel that is both easy to read and complex at the same time. This novel is poignant, humorous and incredibly touching and is one I highly recommend. A huge thank you to Mimi at Goodreads for the galley. Published on Goodreads and Amazon on 5.17.20

This was an absolutely wonderful and sweet little book! It is packed full of humour, an entertaining, quirky and loveable main character that is quite the powerfully moving, quiet relaxing read that gave me that warm fuzzy feeling in the end that I so love. Would highly recommend! Thank you so much to Mimi at Goodreads for my ARC!

Anne Tyler has the unique ability to take the most mundane, ordinary of events and combine them with well-developed, relatable characters to create wonderfully nuanced stories that are both heartfelt and earnest. I love Tyler’s low-key style and the way she presents her characters always as they are — no fan fare, no big attention-grabbing event, no major earth-shattering revelation — just an ordinary character going about their every day tasks. This time around, our protagonist is Micah Mortimer, a 44-year-old self-employed tech expert who lives a life of carefully planned routine — from his morning runs that start and end at the same designated times and follow the same exact path each day to the household chores that are meticulously scheduled and performed: floor-mopping on Mondays, kitchen-cleaning on Thursdays, vacuuming on Fridays, etc. To say that Micah is a creature of habit is an understatement — run, shower, breakfast, tidy-up, then get ready to start his first call of the day, his mornings consisted of a system rarely deviated from and fastidious to a fault. But then one day, two things happen that threaten to shatter Micah’s carefully guarded routine: his “woman friend” Cass tells him that she is on the verge of losing her apartment, and later, the teenage son of an ex-lover shows up at his door claiming to be his son. How will Micah handle these unexpected disruptions and the aftermath that results? I read this book in one sitting this past Sunday morning and let me tell you, it definitely made my day! I enjoy stories that are witty yet poignant, where the humor is subtle and occurs so naturally that you find yourself chuckling without realizing it (that was me during the “Traffic God” moments). This was a simple story, but one that had substance and also a lot of heart — a perfect choice during this challenging time. Every time I pick up one of Tyler’s newest novels to read, I remind myself that I have yet to work my way through her prolific backlist, which I intend to do at one point or another — while still anticipating her next book of course!

Anne Tyler is one of my favorite authors. She has the ability to make the ordinary, mundane characters interesting by writing of their quirks and humanity. “Redhead by the Side of the Road” is currently longlisted for the 2020 Booker Prize. Micah, our regimented and disciplined protagonist enjoys order in his life. He comes from a gregarious, messy family who love him, and love to tease him of his need for structure. Tyler finds ways to upset ordinary lives and plays with ideas of how these characters could react. Tyler’s novels are comfort food for me. Her characters have no ill intent. They make mistakes, lots of mistakes, and she shows how it is the human condition to plug away, tripping as we go. With Micah, she upsets his perfect universe with a surprise visit from a college student who is the son of a long-ago girlfriend. He’s perplexed as to why this young man sought him out. Next, his girlfriend of a few years learns that she might be evicted. He’s overwhelmed with the young man at his doorstep, that he doesn’t notice his girlfriend’s angst. Micah is fun. He talks to himself in fake accented voices. He has “traffic gods” in his mind who admires his safe driving skills. He’s a loveable character. When his routine is messed with, Tyler spins her magic and makes the read a funny and satisfying read.

Micah Mortimer, 44, is a creature of habit, routine and precision. He has few friends although he’s always cordial and perfectly polite to everyone. His life has stalled somewhat as he’s the super of a building, a job he does conscientiously and he runs Tech Hermit, fixing people’s computer issues. He has a girlfriend Cassia Slade but that relationship seems to be fading. When the son of a former girlfriend barrels into his life in a most unexpected way, after a great deal of puzzlement and soul searching Micah reaches some life changing decisions. This is such a lovely, gentle novella which is a perfect antidote for these uncertain and worrying times. As you’d expect from a writer of the calibre of Anne Tyler this is beautifully written with delightful touches of wry humour. I love Micah, he’s honest, he finds life and emotions bewildering and he seeks perfection by instilling order in his life and distancing himself from others. His family is the polar opposite to him as they are colourfully, chaotically haphazard. They poke gentle fun at Micah but there’s no malice, just warmth and understanding. He comes to appreciate that he cannot go through life without making mistakes and with that realisation comes happiness. He has far more imagination that he realises as shown in his dreams and the redhead!!! Overall, a lovely read with good characters, it’s well written and there’s a happy ending - what more could you ask for? It takes literary skill to write a story about everyday people and make it interesting and Anne Tyler exactly that.

Anne Tyler's writing, to me, is like being enveloped by a gentle warmth. This writer writes the minutiae of life, but it is not plain or boring, it is rich and oh so enjoyable to read. I wholly enjoyed this small audiobook, a novella lacking fanfare which seems to be a style I enjoy. Micah is a mature man, he's a good guy, goes to work, does the right thing, and that is that. I loved his measured response to his clients (he runs his own IT company) who tend to dither when paying his call out fee - which he always quotes in advance. I am in small business. I know people are nuts come payment time. For example, texts run hot and fast ALL the way through the job, but come payment time.. RADIO SILENCE. I digress! His family love him, and he loves his 'woman friend'. Set in his ways, a day for the floors, he'll clean the outer kitchen doors cyclically, rotating so it all gets done, no time wasted. His plodding days become tested when a young man knocks upon his door, raising questions to his teen years and the way he conducted himself all those years ago. It seems he has not changed an awful lot. This was a lovely story, narrated well. I was invested the whole way through and loved Micha's way. He was a good man, surrounded by a loving family. He was a loving person, in a different way to others. And what of it? I listened to this via the BorrowBox app and my public library. Recommended to those who like methodical reads, reminiscent (to me) of Elizabeth Strout and John Boyne.

Micah Mortimer is set in his ways. His siblings and extended family tease him good-naturedly about his unvarying routine. Much like Macon in The Accidental Tourist, Micah is over-compensating for his messy (but loving) upbringing. He needed order in his day to day life to make up for what he viewed as the chaos of his early years. Micah had a simple life, barely making ends meet, but he was content. Life was predicable, but it was emotionally "safe" - or so he thought! Cass, Micah's current girlfriend, aptly observed that Micah didn't give "second chances" - one strike and you're out. When his business partner cheated him out of the rights and profits from his invention, he turned away from software development altogether. Likewise with his failed relationships. Micah's coping mechanism with life was to keep his involvement with other humans to a safe minimum. He followed society's "rules" as well as his own "no deep attachments/risks" credo and believed he was safe. But one day a young boy, claiming to be his son, shakes up his orderly world. Ironically, Micah had had a dream the night before that he found a baby sitting on the floor of a grocery store. How prophetic! A sign from the Universe that his life was going to be shaken up and changed forever! I couldn't wait to get back to this book in between work and my own "set chores" - Micah's emotional evolution was slow but inevitable. A truly enjoyable read!

Anne Tyler is such a great student of human emotions and interactions. Redhead by the Side of the Road is no exception. The story focuses on Micah, who lives by himself in a basement apartment, adhering carefully to his daily routines. He's a kind person, but somewhat rigid and not very good at understanding other people. Things start of unravel when the 18 year old son of an ex-girlfriend shows up on his doorstep. The story is a bit predictable but I really liked how Tyler depicts Micah and how he tries to make sense of the world around him. Thank you to the publisher and Edelweiss for an opportunity to read an advance copy.

This was an easy read with a nice story. Anne Tyler writes effortless about family quirks and relationships. However I’m not sure how memorable this read will be and found it lacked a strong impact in me.

Another classic from Anne Tyler. Only she can make me interested in a plain, regimented, boring, mid-forties man named Micah. He's a nice person, but he's dull. He likes everything to be in its right place, has a strict cleaning schedule for his apartment and does everything by the book. He's generally content with his life. Until a few things start happening. This short novel was like a cosy blanket, listening to MacLeod Andrew was relaxing and very enjoyable. NB: I'm dumbfounded to see this on the 2020 Booker Prize longlist.

| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | | “You have to wonder what goes through the mind of such a man. Such a narrow and limited man; so closed off.” Redhead by the Side of the Road is a slender but tender novel. In her deceptively spare style Anne Tyler relates a quotidian tale about a rather 'finicky' man. Micah Mortimer, who is in early forties, lives a quiet life. His days are punctuated by his morning runs and his cleaning schedule. As the owner and sole-employee of TECH HERMIT Micah solves his customers' IT-related problems. Given his chaotic childhood, as an adult Micah finds comfort in his routine. As the novel progresses Micah finds himself in rather challenging situations: Cassia, his 'woman friend', is risking eviction, and the son of his first true love shows up at his doorstep. Redhead by the Side of the Road presents its readers with an ordinary story about an ordinary man. Tyler's characters are vividly rendered. Regardless of their role in the narrative they struck me as real. Tyler certainly has a knack for portraying different personalities. She manages to capture an individual's idiosyncrasies, the way they talk, their mannerisms and habits. Micah's interactions with his neighbours, his customers, his family, and Cassia are filled with an abundance of awkward yet genuine moments. Tyler is wonderfully empathetic towards her characters. She never criticises Micah for his reticence to connect to others or his many particularities, nor does he undergo a complete character change. Through her perceptive prose and quiet humour Tyler tells a heartwarming story. It follows ordinary people doing ordinary things, yet in many ways it's so much more.

On his homeward stretch this morning, he made his usual mistake of imagining for a second that a certain fire hydrant, faded to the pinkish color of a clay flowerpot, was a child or a very short grown-up. There was something about the rounded top of it, emerging bit by bit as he descended a slope toward the intersection. Why! He always thought to himself. What was that little redhead doing by the side of the road? Because even though he knew by now that it was only a hydrant, still, for one fleeting instant he had the same delusion all over again, every single morning. More than anything, Redhead by the Side of the Road is just this perfect little character study: Anne Tyler introduces us to someone, puts a few pressures on him, and we watch how he reacts. The prose is easy and accessible, but nothing feels lightweight; this is a masterclass in how a novelist can reveal the human heart with scenes filled with wit and truth and relatability. If I had a complaint, it’s that I wanted to spend more time in this world — the book only takes a couple of hours to read — but I can’t deny that it ultimately makes for a complete experience; a perfect little gem of a read. “Some kids are raised in a mess and they say, ‘When I’m on my own, I’ll be neater than God.’ Others are raised in a mess and they say, ‘Life is a mess, looks like, and that’s just the way it is.’ It’s got nothing to do with their upbringing.” Micah Mortimer — forty-four on his next birthday — has settled into the routines of his life: Working as the superintendent (and living rent-free in the basement of) a small apartment building and also as an on-call IT guy; fussily sticking to a set rota of household chores and visits with his “lady friend”, Cass; jogging at the same time every morning (in cut off jeans), followed by breakfast and coffee and the running of a stick vacuum under his chair to pick up errant toast crumbs; slapping a magnetic “Hermit Guy” sign on the roof of his Kia if he needs to drive (always with a mind to impressing his imaginary Traffic Gods) to see a client. And as far as he can tell, it’s a happy life. But when Cass is suddenly facing eviction from her apartment (which ultimately forces Micah to consider the future) and a teenaged boy shows up on his doorstep wondering if Micah could be his real father (forcing Micah to review his past), Micah is suddenly forced to really evaluate how he is living in the present: is this a life or just a set of routines he has stumbled into? Sometimes when he was dealing with people, he felt like he was operating one of those claw machines on a boardwalk, those shovel things where you tried to scoop up a prize but the controls were too unwieldy and you worked at too great a remove. At first, when Micah isn’t engaging in any kind of self-reflection (acting as oblivious to the outside world as someone who could, daily, mistake a fire hydrant for a redheaded person on the side of the road), he’s a little hard to relate to. But about halfway through, there’s a big dinner party with Micah’s four older sisters, their spouses, kids, and grandkids, and as various characters tease Micah about his quirks and oddness — and as he accepts it all with good humour and grace — I suddenly found myself rooting for him. And when, at the end, he has an epiphany of sorts, I was absolutely crushed. (view spoiler) This may be too small and quiet a novel to win the Man Booker, but it really worked for me and I can see why it caught the judges’ eyes.

Just too short...I could have spent so much more time with Micah! Tyler is the master of revealing a character in such fine artistry that you feel like you know them. Micah Mortimer is a middle-aged, acronym prolific (OCD, ASD somewhere on the spectrum) character but he is also an awesome character. Seeing life through his eyes is just the experience I needed. From Cassia, his woman-friend to his carefree, highly energetic sisters there is something to enjoy in this novel. The character-centred writing is brilliant and despite the plot not actually being a plot, the read is still just as enjoyable. I could have read double the number of pages and would definitely read a sequel to discover more about Brink, the sisters and their family, and obviously Micah and Cassia too.

This is why I love Anne Tyler. Mostly because...This story is a short, character-driven novel, charming and wry, with endearing characters whose quirks are relatable and not overdone. This is undemanding reading, where you can feel at ease in the deft hands of a veteran storyteller. It’s the book equivalent of afternoon tea: comforting and enjoyable, but not really a meal. I enjoyed my time and always felt hopeful because she packs the power of authenticity — creating an honest portrayal of the trials and triumphs associated with the ordinary strands of personal identity, and family. Adding some subtle humor along the way.

“If ever there was a perfect time for a new Anne Tyler novel, it’s now — and this one doesn’t disappoint . . . Heartwarming and very funny — one of Tyler’s best yet.” —People Agree, agree, agree. Micah Mortimer is a fellow who has his life completely organized. He is a self-employed tech guy, working when he gets a call, and he manages the apartments where he lives, getting an apartment for free in the bargain. Every day is a day to do a different household task---cleaning out a cabinet, mopping the floor. Organized to the nth. There's his love life, and maybe that's not as organized as he had hoped. And who is this eighteen-year-old boy showing up at his house unexpectedly? His sisters and their families? Well, maybe his life has a few places he could work to improve. Someone had told me that Anne Tyler wasn't going to write any more novels after her last book, Vinegar Girl. Maybe that was her intent, but, in any case, I am thrilled she wrote this little gem. Her writing is wonderfully quotable; you read her character's thoughts and you nod your head. She knows her people. Some quotes: "Like most families, the Mortimers believed that their family was more fascinating than anybody else’s." Tyler, Anne. Redhead by the Side of the Road . Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group. Kindle Edition. “'What’s the point of living if you don’t try to do things better?'” Tyler, Anne. Redhead by the Side of the Road . Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group. Kindle Edition. "Women kept the world running, really." Tyler, Anne. Redhead by the Side of the Road . Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group. Kindle Edition. '“He asks Joey, ‘Do you love her?’ And Joey thinks awhile and then he says, ‘Well, sometimes.’ ” “Sometimes!” Micah said. “Oh,” Ada said breezily, “all in all, I guess that’s about the most a couple can hope for."' Tyler, Anne. Redhead by the Side of the Road . Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group. Kindle Edition. "Sometimes when he was dealing with people, he felt like he was operating one of those claw machines on a boardwalk, those shovel things where you tried to scoop up a prize but the controls were too unwieldy and you worked at too great a remove." Tyler, Anne. Redhead by the Side of the Road . Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group. Kindle Edition.

Genre: Literary Fiction Publisher: Knopf Doubleday Pub. Date: April 7, 2020 If I was to host a dinner party with my favorite female authors whose first name is some sort of derivative of “Ann” my guests would include Ann Napolitano, Ann Patchett, Anna Quindlen, and Anne Tyler. In Tyler’s latest novel, the narrative’s tone is overflowing with laugh-out-loud dry wit. Her protagonist, Micah (an example of a difficult name to remember that I just switch to Michael in my mind) Mortimer is another likable yet quirky character, the kind that the author favors. It takes talent to write comedy with a rather dull hero. Micah is a fastidiously well-organized 43-year-old tech geek who follows his routines to the point of bordering on OCD. He heeds all rules, big or small, believing that this gives his life a sense of order. He pretends that there is a Big Brother-like Traffic God watching his every move in the car, which is why he always, always signals—even in his own driveway! When those living in the building he manages do not follow the guidelines, he writes them “friendly” reminders. Most residents get one or more per week. And the poor guy can’t figure out why women keep dumping him. Micah is the extreme opposite of his lackadaisical family, which makes for some very funny dialogue between himself and the other Mortimers. His brother-in-law asks him “What day is it today? Is it [your] vacuuming day, a dusting day? Is it a scrub-the-baseboards-with-a-Q-tip day? In all seriousness, Micah replies, “it is kitchen day.” His family roars. Halfway through the novel, we meet a new character. A teenager shows up at Micah’s door claiming to be his son. Since Micah is not built for life’s unexpected developments, his world becomes unmanageable. It is not a spoiler to inform you that the redhead in the title is not referring to the boy. Tyler cleverly uses the word redhead throughout the novel as a metaphor for the protagonist's powerlessness to see clearly. Is that a redhead child? No, it is a fire hydrant. Micah fails to understand the need to accept—or at least try to accept—the yin and yang of life. He stubbornly refuses to see that he might be the problem. In the hands of a lesser author, he could easily come off as Mr. Magoo. Tyler keeps him human. She also makes us wonder. Is Micah even capable of change? Are any of us capable of change? In the tradition of “Akin” by Emma Donoghue, or “A Man Called Ove” by Fredrik Backman, “Redhead” is a feel-good story about having second chances in life. Wouldn’t we all like a do-over? Yes, you have read this story before. Still, I think we could all benefit from a heartwarming tale. Find all my book reviews at: https://www.goodreads.com/review/list... https://books6259.wordpress.com/ https://www.barnesandnoble.com/review... https://www.facebook.com/martie.neesr... https://www.instagram.com/martie6947/ https://www.pinterest.com/martienreco...\ https://www.amazon.com/ https://twitter.com/NeesRecord

The Tech Hermit When I saw Anne Tyler's recent (2020) short novel on the library shelf, the title, "Redhead by the Side of the Road", reminded me of the title of a book in a seemingly different style and mood: David Goodis' bleak noir novel of 1954 with the evocative title, "The Blonde on the Street Corner". In both cases, with the seeming allurement of a dangerously inviting sexual encounter the titles suggest something different than they deliver. There are similarities. Goodis' novel is set among the poor and desperate in Depression-era Philadelphia. Tyler's story is set slightly later and to the south in contemporary Baltimore among people and places that are middle-class or lower middle-class. Goodis' noir novel is harsh and pessimistic while Tyler takes a realistically eyed but kinder view of the human condition. What both novels have in common is the focus on loneliness, as illustrated by the passing title figure of a love to be found in an unexpected place. Tyler's novel tells the story of Micah Mortimer, 43, a crusty man set in his ways who works for himself fixing computers under the name of the "Tech Hermit" while moonlighting as the superintendent of a crumbling Baltimore apartment building where he lives for free in the basement. The Tech Hermit lives alone, and follows a strict routine which Tyler describes concretly in her story's opening pages. With her sharp-eyed description of places and character, Tyler soon gets to the point in commenting on the Tech Hermit: "Does he ever stop to consider his life? The meaning of it, the point? Does it trouble him to think that he will probably spend his next thirty or forty years this way? Nobody knows. And it's almost certain nobody's ever asked him." The novel follows the Tech Hermit through his routines and chores over a few pivotal days with flashbacks into his earlier life. Micah spends much time alone, and much of the book has an inward character, including a discussion of Micah's dreams and his hallucinations of the "Redhead". . Still, more of the story shows his relationship with others. As the story develops, it focuses on Micah's floundering relationship with his woman friend of about three years, Cass, who teaches fourth grade, and his odd relationship with a young man, Brink, a college student who randomly drops in one evening. Brink is the son of Micah's old college flame, Lorna. He hasn't seen much of Lorna in the long intervening years since college. She has become a public interest lawyer married to a corporate lawyer. The couple have three children and a comfortable home and life. Tyler has a knack for endearing descriptions of her characters. She makes the reader understand the many people in this little story, their dreams, frustrations, and misunderstandings. She is a wonderfully observant writer and describes the buildings and streets of Baltimore and is a poet of that city, much as David Goodis is a noir poet of the underside of Philadelphia. She never loses her focus on Micah, the Tech Hermit. As the various stories work toward their denouement, there is a sense of hope for him as he learns to understand himself better and work to estabish human connection and love in face of his ongoing loneliness which threatens to continue through old age. "Redhead by the Side of the Road" is a lovely novel with writing both light and thoughtful. The story suggests that, unlike Goodis' vision of loneliness and loss in "The Blonde on the Street Corner" it is not too late for the solitary Tech Hermit to become a Micah with a meaningful connected human life. So may it be. Robin Friedman

Like a lot of people I’ve sometimes found reading difficult during this period of national lockdown. It can be challenging to concentrate when there’s so much anxiety all around me. So the calm and measured thoughtfulness found in Anne Tyler’s new novel is greatly welcome at this time. Since she focuses on psychological nuance and a realistic portrayal of daily experience nothing very dramatic or distressing often occurs in Tyler’s novels. That’s true for this book as well although there is an imagined apocalyptic scene which felt surprisingly relevant for this current time. At one point the protagonist has a fantasy that his community has been hit by “one of those neutron bombs they used to talk about that wiped out all of humanity but left the buildings intact” so that he imagines himself as the sole survivor and, while he would occupy himself with his usual solitary activities, he’d eventually go out looking for other people and find “Nothing.” This is exactly the sort of existential crisis many are experiencing now when they venture outside to a normally bustling community and find no one around. So this added a touching poignancy to an all-around gentle story about a man caught in the humdrum routines of his well-established lifestyle. The novel follows the daily experiences of Micah, a man on the brink of middle age who has a lowkey life working as a “glorified handyman” assisting local individuals with their computer problems. He runs his independent business under the name Tech Hermit which is a title all too appropriate for him. Although he has a long-term girlfriend and close connections with his family, his life is dominated by tidy habits which shield him from any messiness in his home or emotional messiness. Eventually this distances him from those closest to him and when the son of an old flame arrives at his doorstep he finds himself confronted by how severely circumscribed his existence has become. As often happens in Tyler’s novel, the mundane details of ordinary life gradually build to something much more moving, substantial and profound. Few writers can capture the way individuals are trapped in the steady flow of time the way Tyler does. Read my full review of Redhead by the Side of the Road by Anne Tyler on LonesomeReader

This book is quintessential Anne Tyler. It is a snippet of normal, everyday life. The details are exquisite and so comforting in their ordinary-ness. I loved the character of Micah and saw so much of myself and many of the people I know reflected in him. How too often what motivates us and makes us the people we think we want to be can turn into a millstone around our necks if we don't watch out. The ending of the novel was just perfect. The description of his family dinner was so amazingly familiar--from the detritus of everyday life and clutter to the interactions of the people. When you read as many books as I do, occasionally it starts to seem like everyone must have a more interesting and exciting life than you. That's why this book was so great, because it is so realistic and simple, yet so complex in its reality. I listened to this book as an audio book and the narrator is perfect for the role of Micah. I found myself wanting to keep listening rather than stopping to do other things. Well done Ms. Tyler and I look forward to the next book.

Anne Tyler's Redhead bt the Side of the Road is a short but poignant novel about a 40-year-old bachelor who gets a dose of middle-aged blues when the son of his college girlfriend comes into his life. It is well-told but rather short. Not as engaging as her Pulitzer-winning Breathing Lessons, but set in the same middle-class Baltimore atmosphere. I don't think this will win Tyler a second Pulitzer, but if you liked her other books, you may enjoy this one. My List of Pulitzer 2021 Hopefuls: https://www.goodreads.com/list/show/1...

Red Head at the Side of the Road is a great book to read or listen to if you are having trouble sleeping or need a general uplift. It is a humorous and compassionate account of Micah, a middle-aged man who comes to terms with his limitations and shows the potential for growth and change. There are many excellent plot summaries on GR, so I won't go into detail here. For me, the book's charm lies in Anne Tyler's skill in character development. Micha is an unlikely protagonist. He means well but has difficulty picking up on social cues, especially from women. He is a bit of a perfectionist and tries to control a world that most likely frightens him by adhering to rigid rules, routines, and schedules. However, Micah is a likable enough guy, and I kept rooting for him. His journey to self-revelation is, at times, painful, often comic, and heartwarming, without being sappy or overly sentimental. It is a quick, enjoyable read.

I definitely enjoyed this book that at its core is about family dynamics. Interestingly, the mother of the family inherits a farm from her father-in-law. At first, everything seems to be lovely as the family visits the farm and Jay falls for the son of the caretaker. But soon it is clear that there are large rifts in this family and everyone is affected by them. Apparently this novel is the first of a quartet, and I definitely will pick up the sequel when it's available. It's a quiet, very character drive book. Jay, the main protagonist, is definitely someone you can root for. I enjoyed how the author seamlessly gave us the perspective of different characters. All in all, very good, but I'm not seeing this one as being shortlisted for the Booker Prize. But I am curious to see where Aw takes these characters.

Booker Book 9/13 (goodness this is going fast), 8 0ut of 10. I seem to have liked this book quite a bit more than some of the GR reviewers I follow. I found it wonderfully atmospheric, I was instantly transported from a breezy late summer 2025 weekend on Long Island to a baking hot farm receding back into jungle in southern Malaysia in the mid-90s. The farm, and the nearby town, with its night market and small riverside restaurants were incredibly vivid to me. I didn't know this book was the first in a tetralogy until I was finished (I try to read nothing about a book going into it), and I didn't find the book incomplete in the least. It was the story of a summer first love, and of the family stresses and fractures (part reflection of the mid-90s Asian financial crisis, part growing out of traditional Cantonese gender roles) that surround the boys as they explore that love. What can I say? It worked for me. Aw hooked me, and I'm happy to know that there are 3 more books to come, but as a portrait of a family in a very specific place and time, this is really good just the way it is.

A very endearing portrait of a family coming of age.

113th book read in 2025 This was a fine story told in Tash Aw’s extremely fine prose. I have read three of his earlier novels. Whether his novels are set in Malaysia (The Harmony Silk Factory) or Indonesia (Map of the Invisible World) or Shanghai (Five Star Billionaire), he always addresses the effects of politics, Western influence and uprootedness on his characters. His mastery of these themes grows more sure-handed each time. The South is shorter than his earlier novels, but it is as if he has distilled his ideas into a finer, aged brew. I have read that this is the first of a planned series of connected books. An unhappy family, the effects of climate change, the lasting discomforts of being the descendants of Chinese immigrants, and a 17 year old boy’s discovery of his sexuality, are all woven into a dreamy portrayal of life, both macrocosm and microcosm. Though it is short I had to read slowly, circle back, pay attention to clues. Doing so rewarded me with a sense of having been through an emotional workout. While I wait for the next book, I will read the two of his books I have missed: the 2019 novel We the Survivors and the memoir, The Face.

"You're crazy if you think you can live a life without responsibilities to anyone. If you don't have responsibility, you don't have love." . ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁ ⟡ ݁ . ⊹ ₊ ݁. a nostalgic novel set in malaysia, that explores family expectations, young love and culture. i found jay to be a very relatable character, and was pleasantly surprised when we got perspectives from his mother, sui, as well as their caretaker, fong. i love books that dig deep into the nuances between character relationships and this one did a very good job at lacing culture in as well. the ending was hopeful, bittersweet, and for a debut this author seems very promising!

Edit: congratulation on the booker longlist! “We feel as though our entire world changes when we get older, every object, every person, has been rearranged into some strange new configuration, but in fact nothing at all has changed." Tash Aw is a talented writer who can even make a dry sentence seem poetic. This is a book which is much more than the summary - a gay coming of age book - as it is deeply rooted in the Malaysian community. In fact, take away the romance and this book will still read the same. Jay, with his parents Sui and Jack and his two elder sisters, visit their farm land inherited from his grandfather for a holiday from the bustling KL. The caretaker Fong and his son Chuan know their position in the society as Chinese Malaysians and treat the family with almost subservience. With no rains and no investments, the land is dry and the yield meagre. The POV moves between Sui and Jay and even Fong. We get to know the complex family dynamics, things that are changing. One of the sisters is in a relationship with an orthodox Malaysian Muslim and the other has a strained bond with parents. In all this, effeminate Jay, falls in love with Chuan and the feeling is reciprocated. There are not as many dramatic elements as the earlier Tash aw books. But that doesn't meant the book is devoid of drama. There were a lot of parallels with the Indian family. The entire family sitting together for the dinner transitions to people who barely tolerate each other - almost gradually. In this book, it happens over a holiday. The parts describing the hard manual labour and the landscape are realistic and you could feel the sweat of the arid land. There are a couple of unexpected twists and some allusions that make the reader take notice. This is a lyrical book written by an author who knows how to wield his pen. Thank you netgalley for the ARC copy.

“That was how memory worked; it was the opposite of recollection, never as strong as we thought it was, always relinquishing the instances that mattered most to us” From: The South by Tash Aw Booker longlist #11 (working my way through the ones that weren’t shortlisted first) Thank you @fsgbooks for the gifted copy! If you’ve been with me long enough, you know I have a thing for books about the finicky nature of memories and the power the narrator of a story has to tell, shape and change memories. This book shapes this theme in an extra interesting way by also playing with the point of view. Switching between an all-knowing third person and the first person narration. It actually made me stop and go back a few times to see what the effect was in those paragraphs and it really seemed to be to re-assess the memory. Overall, this has solid writing, great characters and a beautiful sense of place and scenery. Aw also knows how to portray longing in a quiet but beautiful way. As I understand it, this is part of a quartet, and I am intrigued to see where Aw will take it next. I read this book both digitially and on audio, but this is a book I would advise to read digitally or on paper, because the audio didn’t really work for me. I might re-read the full book before reading the second installment because of this. 📚 📖💙⁣⁣⁣⁣⁣

The South is the first book in a planned quartet. It follows Jay and his family on a summer journey to a farm in the south of Malaysia. The characters, especially Jay, Chuan, and Sui, feel fully real and carefully drawn. The novel carries a lot of lightness and happiness on the surface, but there are also darker undertones running through it: a longing for a better but perhaps unreachable life, questions about how much control we truly have, and the weight of social judgment. That balance between warmth and unease is what makes it memorable. In that moment, forever seems like a comforting notion. But at that age, what does either of them know about time?

I was raised in a small town, so this book hit home in so many ways T_T also Jay and Chuan are v cute together I love that nothing dramatic happens in this book, and that’s exactly the point, the blandness makes the social commentary on Malaysian life (especially for minorities) hit even harder. Some plot points are left unresolved, which honestly rings true to Asian family dynamics lol. Update: Changed to 4 stars bc I didn’t realise they’re cousins rip

very excited this is a planned series

"That was how memory worked; it was the opposite of recollection, never as strong as we thought it was, always relinquishing the instances that mattered most to us" Set in 1997 and premised on the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis, Jay's family spent their holiday on a farm in the South of Malaysia (Johor Bahru). Jay's mother, Sui Ching (a child of migrants), inherited the farm from her father-in-law (an immigrant from Guangdong) who just passed away. It is revealed that Sui Ching married to her former teacher (Jay's father, Jack Lim), who is now a math professor (and also 15 years older than Sui Ching) and their marriage is an unhappy one. The farm is managed by Fong (where it is then revealed that Fong is Jack's illegitimate brother) and his son, Chuan. Sui Ching developed a special friendship with Fong, whereas Jay, developed queer desires towards Chuan. While the romantic relationship between Jay and Chuan bloomed, can their relationship withstand the changes that were happening around them (the deteriorating situation of the farm, the collapsing of Sui Ching and Jack's marriage), especially Chuan's yearning to set himself free from the farm and live a different life? Tash Aw's fifth novel, The South (now longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize), differs from his previous novels where he tapped into the category of "family saga novels" from the South East Asia perspective as well as the "coming-of-age story" of a queer boy, in a rural countryside where homophobia dominates the mindsets of the people there. Tash Aw then explored the themes of masculinity, classism, the struggles of the working class, with a beautiful play of notions of memory and time. In particular, the novel shifts between the past and present in a rather fragmentary fashion where it could be confusing at first but readers would get used to such narrative structure towards the end. While this novel is branded as a "queer coming of age" story, I think it is more to it. It deals with a larger concept of "freedom" where Tash Aw's characters desire to break free from the their own chains, regrets or societal expectations and live the life that they intended. Apparently, this is the first installment of Tash Aw's planned quartet and the ending of The South panted an intriguing seed on me to know what will happen to the Lim family in Tash Aw's next book. A worthy inclusion to the longlist of the 2025 Booker Prize and it is such a shame that Malaysia does not even acknowledge the talent of their own writers by banning this book. "How can we live in a place when we know that it belongs to someone else? We believe it is our home, we allow our roots to settle in its soil –for how can we not? We know no other place –but somehow, and who knows why this happens, we harbour a grain of doubt; we know, we expect, that we will be moved on, even though we cannot yet anticipate how this move will be triggered; all we know is that when it happens, we will be powerless to resist it; words are pointless and even ridiculous, for they cannot adequately combat or lament this loss. Better to save your strength for future conflicts elsewhere."

Tash Aw's The South is a beautiful coming of age story. Jay, his two sisters and his parents spend some time at a failing farm down south which they inherited. At the farm, Jay shares a room with Chuan, who he immediately takes a liking to. "In that moment, forever seems like a comforting notion. But at that age, what does either of them really know about time?" I found myself unable to put this book down. Something about its atmosphere pulls you in and keeps this grip on you. I felt a deep sense of nostalgia and sadness throughout the whole book, despite it not really being a sad story. Any queer person will probably deeply relate to Jay and his first time navigating his identity and feelings. The book focuses on a lot more interesting things. Jay's family each have their struggles, his mother most of all. Tash aw has done a great job at fleshing out every character in a relatively short amount of pages. With the importance of the characters themselves it's easy to overlook the setting of the story. Set in Malaysia, it focuses on a lot of issues like the cause of climate change and the xenophobia against the Chinese. This was a beautiful, somewhat melancholic but also hopeful coming of age story. "This emptiness feels like hunger but Jay thinks that it is really a longing, though he doesn't know what he is longing for."

Wow, what a book to dove straight into with some intense territory evoked by Tash Aw's 'South'! This fascinating book can stir up such strong reactions, leading to several police reports lodged against it. This makes me wonder what kind of nerve the book is hitting right here in this country. Tash paints a vivid picture of a farm in the '90s, right when Malaysia was on the cusp of such big shifts. There's alot of personal dramas – the secret love, the crumbling marriage, the family tensions – all set against this backdrop of a changing nation and a dying farm. It's like the land itself is mirroring the turmoil the characters are going through. I like the way climate change is woven into the story, for example, a life-giving stream turns into a ditch. This is a stark reminder of how big global issues play out on such a personal level. "We can't call it an orchard if it no longer bears fruits," is a powerful quote. It speaks volumes about loss and identity. The universal feeling of loneliness and search for solitude, especially when one feels like an outsider, is felt throughout the book. The protagonist Jay, a young gay boy who found a little green clearing in the forest sounds like a vital sanctuary for someone trying to figure out who they are. It's also important how Aw tackles those tough issues head-on – the bullying, the racism, the homophobia. It's a raw look at some of the darker sides of society, and it makes you think about how far things have (or haven't) come. I like that Aw has given voice to strong female characters too. That independent sister sounds like a breath of fresh air amidst all the emotional complexities. It'll be interesting to see how her perspective plays out in the rest of the series. Definitely keen to read what happens next in the coming book, there are 4 in this quartet series. What happens to Jay and Chuan, and most importantly, that farm – which is like the heart of the whole story. That piece of land holds so much history and the weight of their grandparents' sacrifices. It makes you wonder what kind of future awaits them all. Ends.

This was one we grabbed when we attended @4thestatebooks live, and after hearing the author speak about it I was fairly sure it would be up my street. I was absolutely right. It’s the first in a quartet and you’d best believe I will be running out to get the next as soon as it appears! The South tells the story of one summer in the life of Jay, a city-boy, who travels south after his grandfather dies, to spend the summer on the farm his mother has now inherited. The land used to be fertile, providing money for the family and jobs for their workers, but now it is parched by drought, trees diseased and most of the workforce have moved away towards better prospects. Still, Jay’s father encourages him to do what he can to help, and so, he finds himself spending the long days working under the heat of the sun with Chuan, the son of the farm manager. As the boys get closer, Jay learns more about himself and with the freedom afforded to him in this home away from home he starts to explore what it is he actually wants, outside of the restrictions of his city life. The story is mostly told through Jay’s experiences but history is added by chapters from his mother’s perspective and also of the farm manager Fong. With classic coming-of-age elements and BEAUTIFUL writing, this was a stellar read for me, I could feel the sticky heat of the Malaysian countryside and I really cared about all of the characters. 5 gorgeous stars.

‘Was there any point in being alive without helping one another? There is a classic scene with Bill Murray in the film What About Bob? where he moves about his therapists office taking ‘baby steps’, quite literally taking small steps to represent the idea of how small immediate goals can help accumulate to larger, long term change. This idea is at the heart of Claire Keegan’s astonishing Small Things Like These, a novella now shortlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize where the actions of a singular man might become the first baby steps in undoing a system of abuse and oppression in his society. Set in the days leading up to Christmas 1985 in a small Irish village, Bill Furlong’s existential anxiety for a sense of purpose in a life he feels is stagnating leads him to examine the world around him and, in doing so, realizes there are things he can no longer look away from. Brief but breathtaking, Keegan addresses the horrific treatment of women in the Magdalene Laundries and the oppressive power of a church that has it’s hands in all local life in 1980s Ireland, asking us to take small steps to unravel systemic abuse and find that one small life can lead to something great. ‘What was it all for? Bill Furlong asks himself in Small Things Like These. Born fatherless but taken in by a wealthy widow, Bill has created a pleasant, stable life for himself as a hardworking father of five daughters. His years of being known as a hard worker and a friend to all has made him a welcome fixture in local society, yet he can’t help but feel stagnated and that there must be something more to life than the endless grind to keep just above drowning. ‘He was touching forty but didn’t feel himself to be getting anywhere or making any kind of headway and could not but sometimes wonder what the days were for.’ With this as the spark to existential inquiry, Keegan spins a nearly Chekovian tale where each detail is ripe with purpose. It reads like a short story one would dissect in a literature classroom and has a timeless feel to it despite being set in a very specific space and time. ‘Always, Christmas brought out the best and the worst in people.’ While a short Christmas tale seems to inspire ideas of cozy, idyllicism, through Furlong we sense a creeping darkness that everyone else seems to miss. One daughter fears Santa Claus, the throngs of shoppers feels stifling, he is overworked and everything takes on a tone of dread. Such as the wildlife around him: ‘It was a December of crows. People had never seen the likes of them, gathering in black batches on the outskirts of town then coming in, walking the streets, cocking their heads and perching, impudently, on whatever lookout post that took their fancy, scavenging for what was dead, or diving in mischief for anything that looked edible along the roads before roosting at night in the huge old trees around the convent.’ Any sense of adhering to the peaceful veil masking life that happens at Christmas is shattered by an encounter with a young girl from one of the laundries run by Nuns. These are, of course, the Magdalene Laundries where over 30,000 young women were kept over the years for being considered ‘fallen women’ until they were finally closed in 1993 and have been exposed for terrible abuse. Furlong begins to observe how everyone in town pretends to not notice what occurs at the laundries, and even his own wife encourages him to look the other way because at least it isn’t their girls. This line of thinking disturbs him, and it should disturb us all, as mere self-preservation and looking at oppression as only happening to others is how the systems perpetuate themselves. The convent as an instrument of the church, with their ‘fingers in everything’, takes on a sinister tone as a lurking darkness over the town, described as ‘a powerful-looking place on the hill at the far side of the river with black, wide-open gates, and a host of tall, shining windows, facing the town.’ Interactions with Mother Superior do nothing to calm his feelings of unease, seeing the nuns as manipulative and recalling his own questionable birth. He is reminded that while he is welcome in society that he is still an outsider and that the church views his lack of sons as a mark of shame. As the parent to two daughter, I’ve personally always enjoyed the idea of being a Jane Austen dad and scoff the idea of “heirs”, so I’ve got your back on this one Billy. ‘Why were the things that were closest so often the hardest to see?’ Pulling a simple thread in the fabric of coached reality can begin to undo the whole knit, and Bill questions how he can see the abuse occurring right out under everyone’s noses and then simply dress up and attend Mass. How can anyone? ‘Was it possible to carry on along through all the years, the decades, through an entire life, without once being brave enough to go against what was there and yet call yourself a Christian, and face yourself in the mirror?’ While the issue of the laundries is central to the novel, the story progresses more as his personal journey towards purpose and action than it is an investigation of the situation. In what is practically a Christmas Day reversal of A Christmas Carol, instead of taking action to not be shunned from society Bill takes action that will almost surely be met with ostracization. The message is clear: doing the right thing is more important than upholding a polite society that is only polite to those it serves at the expense of others. While he sees people as generally good, he acknowledges ‘the thought itself was privileged,’ and he must use his privileges to the betterment of all. Even the outcasts. The irony is that he is more Christlike in his actions than the institution he rebels against that works in Christ’s name. This is a very sturdy little novella where much of the message takes place in the undertones of the story, amalgamating until it spills over and into action. The name Furlong is key, as it means the amount of work oxen can do in one-eighth of a mile without rest and his ‘work’ is just a baby step that, should others choose to follow in his footsteps (footprints in snow is a major symbol in the end of the story), can become a collection of small things like these that make up a movement and larger force. This idea permeates every aspect of the story, which is mostly told through the mundane small daily activities ‘which, when added up, amounted to a life.’ It does make for a bit of a slow reading experience despite the short length, though this may have been due to reading in the fast paces of late summer life as the book embodies a cozy read by the fire amidst snowfall and reads at a pace best suited for that. Small Things Like These is an important reminder that small actions can promote larger ones as well as a tribute to the young women harmed by the laundries. If we can take the messages here to heart, perhaps we, too, can be another baby step on the road to progress. 4.5/5 ‘The worst that could have happened was also already behind him; the thing not done,which could have been—which he would have had to live with for the rest of his life.’

Claire Keegan has been one of the most recommended authors to me. It was time I finally read her work! I was immediately captivated from the beautiful opening lines of this novella which transported me to Ireland in 1985. There are no wasted words. “And then the nights came on and the frosts took hold again, and blades of cold slid under doors and cut the knees off those who still knelt to say the rosary.” I could feel the cold and bleak Irish winter clinging to my skin – not unlike the religion, secrecy and hardships gripping life in Ireland during that time. There was such contrast between the Christmas vibes and sense of darkness cloaked over the place – something most wanted to turn away from, pretend wasn’t happening. We follow Bill Furlong, a coal and timber merchant, who having come from nothing, has made a life for himself. He lives with his wife Eileen and five daughters. His mother died young and he has often wondered who his father was. Claire Keegan makes us feel like we know Furlong. He is quite a likeable character, a man who seeks to do the right thing, yet feels tired with the monotony of routine. “He was touching forty but didn’t feel himself to be getting anywhere or making any kind of headway and could not but sometimes wonder what the days were for.” One day, when delivering coal to the local convent, he discovers a girl in a terrible state, living under abusive conditions. Claire does a remarkable job highlighting the history and use of Magdalene Laundries by the Catholic Church – something which saw thousands of girls and women subjected to immense horrors across many decades. My knowledge on the subject was somewhat limited prior to reading this, so I’m grateful for learning about these women and their plight. It didn’t seem too far removed from the conditions my great-great-great grandmother endured when sentenced to imprisonment and transportation in 1840s Ireland. “It seemed both proper and at the same time deeply unfair that so much of life was left to chance." Claire has a remarkable talent with words. It got me reflecting on morals, family, and consequences for actions – or in some cases, inaction. As the story progresses, Bill, like many of us, has difficult decisions to make. While the ending initially felt abrupt and left me wanting more, I recognise it did everything it needed to do. I’m still thinking about the characters days later, coming up with theories as to what happened to them and hoping they somehow got their happily ever after. Small Things Like These is a memorable, gently understated novella that has me looking forward to reading more Claire Keegan. Now to watch the film adaptation! “The years don’t slow down any as they pass.”

A short story about a kind and compassionate man, Bill Furlong, and his family. This work of fiction touches on Ireland’s last Magdalen laundry. It’s a wonderful book to enjoy during the Christmas season. Best read with a slice of Christmas cake and a warm cup of coffee. Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays to all readers! 🎄🎅❄

“... nothing ever did happen again; to each was given days and chances which wouldn’t come back around.” If you had the chance to do the right thing, no matter the cost, would you do it? Or would you, like a good majority of people, take the easy road and turn a blind eye to wrongdoing, injustice, or outright cruelty? It’s much easier to follow the crowd and avoid going against the powers that be. Especially if speaking up might be at the risk of putting yourself or your loved ones in jeopardy in some way. But would you be able to live with yourself? Could you rest easy each night? “Sundays could feel very threadbare, and raw. Why could he not relax and enjoy them like other men who took a pint or two after Mass before falling asleep at the fire with the newspaper, having eaten a plate of dinner?” Christmas is near and Bill Furlong is faced with a crisis of the conscience. In Ireland in 1985, the Catholic Church holds the reins in town and governs the behavior of its citizens. After a routine visit to the convent to deliver coal, Furlong makes a discovery that causes him to make a tough choice. Sitting through mass will leave him with a bitter taste in his mouth and lead to a different sort of reflection from that preached by the men in robes. “It was a December of crows. People had never seen the likes of them, gathering in black batches on the outskirts of town then coming in, walking the streets, cocking their heads and perching, impudently, on whatever lookout post that took their fancy, scavenging for what was dead, or diving in mischief for anything that looked edible along the roads before roosting at night in the huge old trees around the convent.” I admire the way Claire Keegan writes. Simply yet elegantly, with wonderful imagery. I read a collection of her short stories this summer and was impressed. So it was easy for me to grab this one at just the right time. The prose in this novella is just as striking. The message is one that isn’t necessarily new, but it reveals a piece of lesser known history and for that I was pleased. There’s a note at the end that informs the reader of the Magdalen laundries in Ireland. If you’re not familiar with these shameful establishments, I’d recommend looking them up. Along with the other abuses revealed in recent years, this adds to a history of the Catholic Church that makes me the black sheep in the family, refusing to attend Christmas Eve mass once again this year. To each his own, but I was able to sleep with a clear conscience that night. Ah, the gift of reading to expand one’s mind. That’s better than any material object wrapped in bright paper, ribbons and bows. “… was there any point in being alive without helping one another? Was it possible to carry on along through all the years, the decades, through an entire life, without once being brave enough to go against what was there and yet call yourself a Christian, and face yourself in the mirror?”

'Is there any point in being alive without helping one another?' No. No, there's not. And this novella shows this beautifully.

I don’t like short stories as I always feel ripped off. I love epic tales that I can completely get immersed in. Keegan, you’ve thrown in a monkey wrench. This is a quaint Irish Christmas story. An unremarkable man doing a remarkable thing that will have consequences. And of course I was left wanting more….. 4⭐️ Because I need a longer story!!

I loved this book. I just saw the film adaptation and highly recommend it. Spoiler Alert "He found himself asking was there any point in being alive without helping one another." Orders of Roman Catholic Nuns in Ireland ran the Magdelene Laundries from the 18th century until 1996 to house "fallen women," prostitutes, unwed mothers. The Nuns forced these women to engage in unpaid manual labor, washing, ironing, and packing laundry as "penance for their sins." From 1922-1996, 10,000 girls passed through the laundries where abuse was commonplace(https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/06/wo...). In Small Things Like These, Claire Keegan provides the reader with entre into this world. Her writing, like the story itself, is subtle and low keyed. It centers on Bill Furlong, a local coal and timber merchant in New Ross, a small town in County Wexford. Furlong is married and has five daughters. His mother, an unmarried domestic worker, avoided the laundry when her employer took in mother and son when at 16, she gave birth to him. The novella occurs at Christmas time, a busy delivery season for Furlong. When he delivers to the local convent, he finds a young girl, dirty and cold, locked in the shed. She has recently given birth, is lactating, and asks Furlong desperately about her baby. He brings her to the Mother Superior, who feigns ignorance and provides him with a hefty tip. After that, he leaves and must decide what to do. Keegan juxtaposes scenes of an idyllic Irish village at Christmas time with the harsh realities of the residents of the laundries, a reality that most village residents are aware of but don't want to confront. It is against this backdrop that Furlong deals with his moral dilemma. I highly recommend this short work. I want to thank GR friends Candi and JimZ for bringing this book to my attention!

Now Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2022 This quiet novella contemplates how the morality of a whole society relies on decisions of average citizens: It's 1985, and coal and woord merchant Bill Furlong is making his rounds shortly before Christmas. He discovers a young girl locked into a shed near the convent, who turns out to be a "fallen woman", a teenager who fell pregnant and doesn't even know where the nuns took her child. Bill himself is the illegitimate son of a teenage mother, but she was lucky to evade such circumstances - a man of small financial means and with no societal power, Bill now wonders about his responsibility towards the young girl... The book refers to Irish Magdalene Laundries, Catholic institutions were "fallen women" were exploited and mistreated, and that sold babies as a business model. Bill Furlong lives in a town that is complicit in these crimes, people close their eyes and tell themselves that they have no power, even his wife states that they need the money from the convent to feed their own girls. As Bill knows that one of these babies-turned-commodities could have been him, he has a hard time following the common narrative. Keegan references A Christmas Carol and offers a comparable, rather simple message, but one that, as the state of the world proves, needs to be repeated and underlined: That empathy and integrity are dangerous weapons against cruelty and loneliness. The held back narration, Bill's rich emotional world and the intensity of his inner struggle render the short text affecting and effective. Not the most complex or subtle book ever written, but captivating, quietly passionate and well composed.

This was so beautifully written! A story about the small heroic acts that can make a difference. About self reflection, family, and the power of the church in a small town. I found myself whisked away by the writing style, devoured this book in an hour, and actually wanted more at the end. We’re left open ended, purposefully I think. But the story was so compelling that I just wanted MORE of it! (Which is probably a good thing) Definitely recommend for a short but powerful read! It’s the type of book where you can devour in one sitting, but it lingers with you for a while after you’ve finished.

Small Things Like These: A quiet Sledgehammer of a story 🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄🎄 01:45 ━━━━●───── 03:30 ㅤ ㅤ ⇄ ◀ 𓊕 ▶ ↻ Now playing- The Night We Met- Lord Huron This is such a book that tiptoes into your heart wearing snow-damp boots—and then stomps on it with the weight of moral reckoning. Set in a small Irish town in 1985, the story follows Bill Furlong, a coal merchant and father of five, who stumbles upon a chilling secret at the local convent. What begins as a routine delivery turns into a confrontation with the town’s complicit silence surrounding the Magdalene Laundries—a real-life horror cloaked in religious piety and social indifference. Bill’s internal struggle— between comfort and conscience, is rendered with an aching precision. “And then the nights came on and the frosts took hold again, and blades of cold slid under doors and cut the knees off those who still knelt to say the rosary.” This is not a tale of grand gestures. It’s about the small, almost invisible acts of courage that define us. Bill doesn’t storm the gates; he opens a door. He doesn’t deliver justice; he delivers coal—and compassion. And in doing so, he becomes a quiet hero in a world that desperately needs loud ones. The story really digs into what it means to be brave enough to do what's right... especially when everyone else is keeping quiet. It's a real gut-punch about how tough it is to feel for others when there's so much unfairness around. The gift- is in making the ordinary feel sacred. A Christmas cake, a frosty morning, a glance between spouses— all become vessels of grace and grit. Small things—like these—can change everything.

so so incredibly beautiful. i'm probably going to bump this up to a 5 in a few days because i feel like this is one of the books that just grows on you with time. full review to come. ⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻ pre-read i've heard so many good things about this book that if i don't like it, i'm going to quit reading.

Small Things Like These, by Claire Keegan is such an appropriate story to read at this time of year. The author (first time for me) – has a nice, leisurely way of describing a small Irish town, in the late 1800s at Christmas time. I found Keegan’s descriptions so very nostalgic – it reminded me of the beautiful freezing Christmas’s of my childhood in the UK. Much better than the stifling, humid tropical Christmas here in Queensland. There’s something very ‘not right’ about listening to Silent Night whilst sweating your buttocks off!! The main character is Bill Furling, a family man, who runs around this small-town delivering coal and collecting the money for his services. The latter being a very difficult thing to do when dealing with the very poor. Bill has an interesting visit to the Nunnery on the Hill – a quite confronting one, and due to this, he starts to question himself and values such as kindness and selflessness. This was a very meaningful and beautifully written part of the story. The thing that struck me about this story, and the writing, is the lovely pace it has. No rush to go anywhere, it meanders about a bit, and ends up exactly where it should be - for a totally satisfying read. Many thanks to Antoinette for putting me onto this book!! 4-Stars

This is a beautiful short novel that takes place in 1985 at Christmas time in a small Irish town. Bill Furlong is a coal and timber merchant, with five daughters, who has been making his deliveries throughout town, and makes a discovery at the convent he delivers to. This is a town controlled by the Catholic Church and the convent has offered a false refuge to young women. Beautiful and tender story of Bill and his past, his family, and how he handles a difficult situation. 4.5 I didn’t know when I requested this book that this was the author of Foster…which I just loved! Thank you to Netgalley and Grove Atlantic for the ARC!

how can something so small and simple hold so much

Absolutely incredible writing. A classic Christmas story. A story about good people, about how the privilege that people are given can keep them quiet in the wake of evil. A reminder that being a good person is also about sticking up for those in need—even if you’ll be judged or even shamed for doing so.

2023 winner of the Booker Prize for Fiction 4★ “Let me understand you correctly, he says, you’re asking me to prove that my behaviour is not seditious? Yes, that is correct, Mr Stack. But how can I prove what I am doing is not seditious when I’m merely just doing my job as a trade unionist, exercising my right under the constitution? That is up to you, Mr Stack, unless we decide this warrants further investigation, in which case it will no longer be up to you and we will decide.” Dystopian Dublin, which is not Belfast and The Troubles, this is worse, it’s insidious, it’s relentless, it’s all too believable, and Lynch just keeps pouring out event after event, thought after thought, sometimes in beautiful, inspired language that I didn’t want to interrupt, but sometimes with far-too-clever phrases that I thought perhaps he had collected and saved for use in a novel. “She drives to the supermarket and coins free a trolley . . . a boy standing in the driveway of a house across the street watches the evacuation while rounding an orange in his hand.” The long convoluted sentences, some pages long with no quotation marks or paragraph breaks demand constant, close attention. Turning other parts of speech into verbs, while descriptive, tends to interrupt the flow and pace of what is an intense, exhausting story. The nature of his writing leaves the reader gasping for breath. The section I quoted is a small part of the scene where Larry Stack, the father of the family and a supporter of those protesting against the government, is answering to two visiting Garda, from the Garda National Services Bureau. He’s being told, basically, that he can’t win, and it’s not long before he is arrested. "How quickly posters have appeared on the advertising boards along the bus routes, pages handwritten or typed up on a computer with the photos of men and women who have disappeared, the people arrested, detained by the regime, one moment you are asleep in your bed and wake to see the GNSB standing in your room, they ask you to put on some clothes, help you find your shoes." After Larry is picked up, Eilish is left with four children. Their eldest is Mark, who is only a couple of weeks shy of his seventeenth birthday and has already been notified that he must register, but he is determined to leave home and join the rebels. Fifteen-year-old Molly hangs a white ribbon from the tree in their yard every week that her father is gone. Twelve-year-old Bailey is a lively boy, who begins acting up as Eilish is becoming more stressed and highly strung and protective. Bossy, pushy, becoming frantic. On top of that, baby Ben is teething. One day, Molly announces: “I’m going out, she says. Out where? I’m going into town. Eilish regards her for a moment, the white denim jacket, the white scarf coiled around her neck. If you’re going into town, she says, you can take them off right now. Molly looks down at her body with mock surprise. Take what off right now? You know what I’m talking about. How do I know what you’re talking about, how do I know what anybody is talking about or even thinking of for that matter if nobody says anything, if nothing is ever said in this house?” Eilish’s sister and family live safely in Canada, while her father lives in another part of the city alone with his dog and his increasingly failing memory. Checkpoints sprout on street corners, men with firearms patrol, curfews are put in place, shortages make shopping difficult, and Eilish’s sister keeps pressuring her to leave. But the government won’t issue baby Ben a passport. As I was reading this in December 2023, the news has been filled with the obliteration of Gaza, which made the strikes and attacks in this even more frightening. But it isn’t about me or how I felt. “… it is vanity to think the world will end during your lifetime in some sudden event, that what ends is your life and only your life, that what is sung by the prophets is but the same song sung across time,… . . . and the prophet sings not of the end of the world but of what has been done and what will be done and what is being done to some but not others, that the world is always ending over and over again in one place but not another and that the end of the world is always a local event, it comes to your country and visits your town and knocks on the door of your house and becomes to others but some distant warning, a brief report on the news, an echo of events that has passed into folklore. . . ” Lynch began writing this four years ago, and he thought it might end his career. I can see why he feared that and also why it didn’t, and I can also see why the Booker committee selected it. On the other hand, I can also understand why many readers have left it unfinished or given it a very low rating. To say it's divisive is an understatement. None of the characters got under my skin or stirred me, but the way they represent everything that is so outrageously wrong with justice in the world today, certainly affected me - the fracturing of the family unit, the division between friends. This may be dystopian fiction about Dublin, but it’s just the way the world has been working for a long time for so many people in African and South American countries, Eastern Europe, and throughout Asia. As Lynch says, their news “comes to your country and visits your town and knocks on the door of your house and becomes to others but some distant warning, a brief report on the news...” Don't ignore the news. Thanks to #NetGalley and Grove Atlantic for a copy of #ProphetSong for review.

prophet song is set in a dystopian ireland, which at the opening of the novel is beginning to descend into totalitarianism and civil war. when her husband is arrested by the secret police and never seen again, mother-of-four eilish must find a way for her family to survive amidst the chaos. if i wrote a one word review of this novel it’d be: harrowing. i read this during the time of the far-right race / anti-immigration riots in the uk, while coverage about the current tragedies happening in palestine and ukraine were also in the news - which, needless to say, only heightened the reality and terror of the novel. the foreboding tone is done so well, i had a tight feeling of dread in my chest every time i read it, with the writing style of the no speech marks and limited paragraph breaks exacerbating the sense of claustrophobia and urgency. as a story, i found it a little repetitive in the middle before the pace suddenly sped up towards the end, however, i still think the ending is the most powerful part. it’s a reminder that refugees coming into countries in small boats and containers are real people, real families. i’m hoping the popularity of this book gets it into the hands of people who need to read books with these messages the most, so they can understand what kind of life / death they are condemning these people to with dehumanising phrases like ‘stop the boats’. it’s a dark and grim read, but incredibly important and pertinent to our current times.

A fine book but too bad about the title. How many prophet things are out there now: dozens? No , I just looked: possibly hundreds. Plus, it’s too on the nose. A very nervy dystopia set in Dublin. Protagonist Eilish’s very physical in-the-moment fear is palpable. “This feeling now of quickness, of pressure giving to movement, it is as though some sensing equipment in the body can read the feeling of force in the air, telling herself that heat flows from hot to cold, that gas flows from high to low, that energy gives to disorder and what no longer has sufficient strength is dispersed.” (p. 145) It’s a scathing interiority that’s sustained throughout. And the choice of a mother, whose ingrained presumption is always continuity and progress — who now wants to take care of everyone— is shrewd. N.B. If your country is turning into a police state though, try not to find yourself a member of a family of six. The whiny irrationalism of children in the face of true existential menace is astonishing. Let’s hear from 12-year-old Bailey. “Bailey still fierce before his mother. See, he says, this family is a joke, and I'll tell you something else for nothing, you're a fucking joke as well, I wish I never had you for a mother.“ (p. 154) Eilish is in control in a hundred small ways, and then she’s not: the war has come to the neighborhood. On the way to the hospital. “Tools rattle and clink on the van floor as the passengers in the back try to make space around a youth who has been placed supine on a jacket. He is calling out in a high and broken voice and she cannot see who is with him. Bailey trying to see out front between the seats and she whispers for him to sit down, tells him to keep the blanket stanched to his head [Bailey’s hit]. The red flexing neck of the driver as he leans out the door to back up the van, he brakes then pulls the door closed and bends over the steering wheel shoving the gearstick forward . . . . Eilish holding the blanket to Bailey's head.” (p. 245) The story propels itself forward by means of fragments, which seems called for. Very jump-cutty, a film editor might say. Beyond bleak. I’m seven pages from the end and yearning for it.

A potent story with an undeniable prophetic ring to it. The constant juxtaposition of the immensity of the events and the banalities of daily life is the strength of this book, but it is also its weakness, because as one reads on this alternation of pathos and bathos begins to feel a bit like a trick, even if it’s often very well done. The style wants to be plain and sober, but the author apparently feels the need to compensate for this with deep psychological observations and profound imagery, sometimes forcing his hand in doing so. The story is powerful, but not very subtle. There’s no ambiguity. The regime is an abstract evil power and evil is evil. The fact that the regime is or was initially supported by the majority of ordinary citizens is hardly touched upon. The gradual democratic backsliding, with all its polyinterpretabele steps, is not what this book is about. It’s about motherly love loosing the battle against a relentless reality and about not being able to decide to flee.

This disturbing novel begins with a woman staring into the dark night as a persistent knocking gradually assaults her consciousness. This scene is a prelude to a descent into a vortex of escalating disorientation and horror. “ She turns on the porch light and the men are known in an instant from how they stood, the night air suspiring it seems as she slides open the patio door….How the men seem to carry the feeling of the night…She checks herself then, almost laughing, this universal reflex of guilt when the police call to your door.” The woman staring into the night while trying to quell a feeling of unease is Eilish Stack.She is a biologist and the mother of four children. Her husband Larry, the object of the police’s visit, is an official in the Teacher’s Union of Ireland. They live in Dublin in a time in the not distant future. This middle class family is firmly cocooned in their belief in a democratic society that prevents the erosion of civil rights and liberties.They are, however, living in a time when the social contract between citizen and government has eroded.The underpinnings of their institutional shibboleths are rapidly failing. The National Alliance Party has come to power and has enforced the newly created Emergency Powers Act. This Act obliterates the constitutional rights that the family has taken for granted and confers unchecked power on a newly created branch of the secret police.The novel chronicles the deteriorating circumstances of the Stack family as governmental abuses of power become increasingly egregious.The rift between government and citizen widens from an ominous rumble to a deafening roar. The decline in the Stark family fortunes broadens the narrative into a political allegory. The Starks are a version of a societal Everyman and their harrowing journey personalizes the increasingly untethered actions of the polity that is purported to protect them. Their attempts to navigate and normalize their circumstances reminded me of an eerily inverted version of Bunyan’s “ The Pilgrim’s Progress” told through a dystopian political lens. The author’s literary style augments the escalating terror of the narrative.There are no paragraphs and a dearth of dialogue indicators. This device blurs the line between action and thoughts and creates an aura of emotional displacement and instability. For me, the ultimate tension of the novel is not contained in the horrors that are so viscerally described in the plot.Instead, the elements that are not addressed are more terrifying.Specifically, we never learn the actual emergency that necessitated the Emergency Powers Act. Additionally, we are not privy to the conditions that facilitated the rise of the totalitarian party now in power. Rather, we are immersed in medias res and left to flounder for answers and solutions along with the Stack family. Many view this novel as a clarion call to eschew institutional entitlement and increase the vigilance necessary to protect democratic institutions. However, the novel offers no explanation of the genesis of this political state. The erosion of liberties can insinuate itself incrementally and unnoticed until it becomes a maelstrom that assumes a life of its own. Fake news morphs into fact and confidence in institutions deteriorates.The novel offers no solutions or remedies for these conditions.The silence in this area is the most chilling aspect of all.4.5 stars

To my opinion it doesn't deserve the Booker. As a dystopia the fascist regime is too generic, too vague. There is barely any info on how it came to power or about its ideology. It could be copy-pasted to anywhere in the world in any era. That said, the atomosphere is disturbing and dark enough, there are some sublime passages and phrases and I really felt compelled by the hardship of the mother.

Now longlisted for the 2021 International Booker Prize. The only other book I have read by Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o was “The Wizard of the Crow” – an epic, sprawling, satirical, magical-realism account of the fictional African country of Aburiria in post cold war period. That story was originally designed to be performed aloud in Gĩkũyũ (the language of one of the people groups making up the Kenyan nation) and was then translated by the author to English (so that as English readers we receive the author's voice directly). This book too has been translated by the author from Gĩkũyũ and one can even more easily imagine it being performed aloud, but in many other ways this is a very different story. This book is effectively a feminist reworking of the foundational myth of the Gĩkũyũ people – and is best explained by the author from his introduction. The Gĩkũyũ people trace theirs to Gĩkũyũ (man) and Mũmbi (woman). God put the pair on the snowcapped Mount Kenya, from where they surveyed the lands around. They made their home in a place called Mũkũrũweinĩ. They had nine daughters, but they were actually ten, hence the Perfect Nine. Legend has it that when the girls came of marrying age, Gĩkũyũ went back to the mountaintop and asked God to provide. On waking up one morning, the family found ten handsome young men outside their home in Mũkũrũweinĩ. The ten clans of the Gĩkũyũ people are named after the ten daughters. The epic The Perfect Nine is an interpretation of that myth starting from a question: where did the Ten Suitors come from? I imagined them as the last left standing after others failed tests of character and resolve. Overall this is a very simple to read tale, like much oral mythology delighting in: Repetition- the nine daughters are often each referenced in turn; Real but striking natural features – here snow and volcanoes; Daunting mythical creatures, representing trials and challenges – in this case mainly ogres; Heroic quests – here for a magical hair with curing powers; Split loyalties - the suitors and their own families against the ties of the daughters to their legendary parents; And the victories of unlikely heroes - with the tenth daughter moving increasingly from the margins to the centre of the tale. I have seen the book compared to Greek mythology, but while I am no expert on this, I found the strong morality in the tales much closer to Eastern religions and the author has actually said he used a Catalan founding epic as a key inspiration. Overall this simple tale when set aside his previous epic, showcases the author’s impressive literary virtuosity while still circling around his central idea of a celebration of African language, oral storytelling and culture. My thanks to Random House UK, Vintage and to The New Press, US for an ARC via NetGalley.

Longlisted for the 2021 International Booker Prize I will tell the tale of Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi. And their daughters, the Perfect Nine, Matriarchs of the House of Mũmbi, Founders of their nine clans, Progenitors of a nation. The Perfect Nine is Ngugi wa Thiong'o’s self-translation from the Gĩkũyũ of his ‘Kenda Mũiyũru’, originally published in Kenya in 2018. This is his first work of long-form fiction since the brilliant The Wizard of the Crow (2006), again self-translated from Mũrogi wa Kagogo (2004). The International Booker judges this year have given us a wonderfully diverse list, and this is no exception. It is also the first self-translated novel to appear on the International Booker longlist, although there were two examples in the prize’s previous incarnation as the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize, Sinan Antoon’s The Corpse Washer in 2014, and in 2008 Paul Verhaeghen’s Omega Minor, which won the prize. In a December 2017 interview (https://projectmyopia.com/interview-w...) the author said: When you crush hierarchy, and replace it with network, then the cultures held in the different languages generate oxygen. They cross-fertilize. Cultures are able to breathe life into each other. Every culture should be taught with a nod to other cultures. Take the example of Greek mythology. It was often taught as if it was the mother of all mythologies. I think that Greek mythology should be taught comparatively with African, Norse, Scandinavian, Icelandic and Asian mythologies. They are all very exciting and it is not necessary to put them in a hierarchical relationship to each other. Let them network. And The Perfect Nine follows this approach, with a re-telling and expansion of the founding myth of the Gĩkũyũ people in Kenya in the style of an epic poem. Ngugi wa Thiong'o has said that the specific inspiration for the story was the 19th century Catalan founding epic Canigó, which is set in the 11th century and centres around Mount Canigou. The myth underlying the Perfect Nine tells of how Gĩkũyũ (man) and Mũmbi (woman), came to Mount Kenya and had nine daughters, but they were actually ten, hence the Perfect Nine for who they then sought to find suitors. Ngugi wa Thiong'o’s story is, in his words, an interpretation of that myth starting from a question: where did the Ten Suitors come from? I imagined them as the last left standing after others failed tests of character and resolve. The mystery of the ten daughters, but called the ‘Perfect Nine’ is revealed in the opening pages when each is introduced with their qualities and the tribe which they founded. For the tenth we learn: Warigia, Matriarch of Mũyũ Clan Her other name, Wamũyũ, has the same roots as Gĩkũyũ, But she is also known as Wanjũgũ for playing among beans and peas. Warigia, the Last One, is also her name, for she was the last born. She is often missing when the nine are mentioned, Because, some so claim, she gave birth, unmarried, at her parents’ home. Surprised by her unerring marksmanship, some say she has occult powers. Otherwise, how can a child born with crippled legs Be so good with arrows? It is said that her teeth were so white they lit a path in the darkness. When she laughs, even animals follow suit. Her clan swears by the name Mũyũ. With her, the nine daughters become ten, the Perfect Nine. This is something of a rewrite of the original myth I believe as there Warigia instead had a child out of wedlock. Others of the daughters also have distinctive characteristics, Wanjikũ a healer, Wangũi who sings and Nyambura aka Mwĩthaga, a rainmaker, qualities both positive and negative. At one point the women are fighting over their choices of suitor: The dispute took a bitter turn; insults followed: Wanjirũ, the evil-eyed one. Njeri, the evil-tongued one. Wambũi, maker of evil charms. Wanjikũ, the quarrelsome. Wairimũ, married to foolishness. Wangarĩ, the mean-spirited. Nyambura, the foul-mouthed. Waithĩra, the lazy. Wangũi, who never grows up. Warigia did not get caught up in their quarrels. But their parents remind them of what each of them brings to the family: ”Who said that honest disagreements sharpen the mind and feed the soul, But those that sharpen the sword in wrath dull the mind and kill the soul?” “Wangarĩ!” they all said. “Who condemned the hyena in human hearts?” “Wanjirũ!” they called out together. “Who said that reason must be rooted in good words?” “Wambũi!” they said in unison. “Who said that her arts are for healing, not killing?” “Wanjikũ!” they said in unison. “Who said that everyone should be given respect?” “Waithĩra!” they said in unison. “Who rejected foolishness?” “Wairimũ!” they said in unison. “Who said, ‘Let us be the rain that puts out fire?’” “Mwĩthaga!” they said. “Who has a voice that stops wars?” “Wangũi!” they said. “And who says that we should always take the middle way?” “Njeri!” they said. And generally Ngugi wa Thiong'o’s retelling of the story is one that is both feminist - in the trials that follow to winnow the suitors it is usually the women who overcome the barriers - and pan-African - the suitors come from all over the continent, as well as one that preaches a message of universal understanding and tolerance. The suitors themselves at one point, realising there are 99 of them but only 10 daughters to choose, start to dispute amongst themselves. A while ago they were bathing together and sharing meals; Now they looked more like enraged animals, fangs out, Each claiming the region he came from as more special than the others, That his people were the elect of God, That their God was the true God. And again Gĩkũyũ reminds them of what they share: Gĩkũyũ said: “We all have descended from the same humans. We inherited their humanity, Which now is ours to cherish, nourish, and pass on, But there are always those intent on scuttling it. They may dwell among us or come from the outside. “To build calls for hard work, From the one who looks to tomorrow. To destroy is easy work, For one who wants to return to yesterday, Like a grown person wishing to remain a child. “War destroys lives. Peace restores lives. The warrior and the warrior bring home trophies of tears. The peacemaker and peacemaker bring home trophies of laughter. My only one and I came from far places in search of peace. Overall, in many respects this is a simple fable, but the dialogue with other foundational myths and universal messages elevate this to another level. An excellent choice for the International Booker list.

This is the second book I've read from this year's International Booker nominee list. (The other book I read was At Night All Blood is Black by David Diop.) I think this would actually be a quite fascinating story to hear/watch as told by a griot. If you like origin & mythology tales, this is one for you. I enjoyed it. A side note/comparison of the two International Booker nominees I've read: At Night All Blood is Black had a lot of symbolism regarding dualities. In my review of that book, I commented on the symbolism of the hands in the story & of the use of the left (dirty) vs. right (clean) hands by the "chocolat" soldiers to carry the rifles (weapon of the colonizer) vs. machetes (tools of home). In The Perfect Nine: The Epic of Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi, the first wedding gift given is: "Enabling the Beginning of a New Home Two machetes, tools for cultivating land, were the first gifts." So, it just further emphasizes the duality of a gun being a weapon of war while a machete is a tool of cultivating growth/tool of sustenance. And an important gift, at that, since it was the first gift given. I very much enjoyed reading these two contenders together to explore contrasts & comparisons. They are very different books, though, & At Night All Blood is Black may not appeal as much to everyone (thoughtful but quite grim) whereas The Perfect Nine: The Epic of Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi is a more universal tale.

I thought this one was genre-defying, as it claimed to be. It's easy to get into the story, and easy to follow. While I had a bit of trouble remembering the names, I could easily follow what was going on. One of the pros is that it really puts you in a mood as if you're hearing your great grandmother tell a tale or legend from her ancestors. This is the best I can describe how I felt. The mood created was marvelous. It also put me in a thinking mood; thinking about life, about Gods, spirituality, legends, feminism, heaven and so much more. I love reading about African folklore. They are always such enthralling and vivid stories, histories, legends and myths. It's fun, different, and always leaves me wanting more. It's a quick read, easily can be read in just one sitting. If you're looking for something new, rather than the good old Greek myth retellings, dive into this one. You will love it.

3.5 stars This is a well written Kikuyu epic that has me wishing I could see a live adaptation of origin stories from Africa based on actual myths from our communities, rather than the singular fantasy of monarchy that some Africans or people of African descent insist should be our legacy to counter racist narratives. Anyway, this is action packed and fast paced. It’s an expansion on the simplified origin story of the Agikuyu that I was taught in school. Thiong’o puts women front and centre of the narrative. Everything revolves around them and the men in the story are expected to sacrifice for them. It’s a good tale of sisterhood, community and comradeship. Though I don’t know why they did the youngest sister like that. A little gripe I have with it is that some of the writing can easily be found in a book written for children. I mean surely Mr. Thiong’o can do better description than “darkness darker than darkness”. The last book I read had a better description of darkness and I rated that 2.5

I don't have a lot of experience with poetry so I can't judge the writing style objectively but the story was very engaging and sprinkled with powerful messages about hope, justice and peace throughout. I enjoyed learning more about gikuyu mythology and the feminist tone of the story added to the fun. Looking forward to reading more of this author's works.

** spoiler alert ** Every culture has an origin myth, of the first man and woman and how they got here. This one is from Kenya. I found it absolutely fascinating. It lead me down a deep rabbit hole to learn about mythology, the Kikuyu people and the language. I loved how Ngugi put his own feminist twist on his retelling of this famous myth. The women didn't just sit at home waiting for their male suitors to return, they went on the treacherous journey too, seemingly with ease. They had a choice in their pairing. They are self sufficient women. They are matriarchs of the 10 Kikuyu clans. They all had incredible skills of fighting, building, providing. I can see why they are considered the "original feminists". Loved it!

Retelling creation myths can be tricky - trying to retell them for local audience needs to find a way not to offend, trying to retell them for global audience can fall flat when the story is not well known. Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o chose to retell the Gĩkũyũ people of Kenya's myths in the form of an epic poem and then to translate it himself into English. And somewhere between the format and the translation, something got lost. The poem was written and initially published in the Kikuyu/Gikuyu language. It was written for a local audience - for people who grew up with the language and the shared culture and knew the original legends (and probably had heard at least a few versions of it). Translating this kinds of works is extremely hard and sometimes the writer is the best person to translate when they know the second language well enough - as is the case here. But that can backfire a bit - because Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o knows his language and culture, he never stops to think if something needs a culture-translation as well. Novels and stories are easier in that regard - there is enough space to explain and create the needed bridges. Poetry, even free verse one, is different. Especially when it heavily relies on allusions and other literary devices. The way to solve that is usually to add translator notes or author notes - explain the legend, explain some of the culture. Especially in the case when the culture is as different from the Western ones and when, even in our very technological 21st century, finding information online about this culture is not that easy. Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o adds a 2 pages introduction which tells the base of the legend... and that's it. If there was a book written in the last years that needed notes, that was it. Not that it does not work as a poem - you do not need to understand every single thing to understand what is happening. Once upon a time, there were a man and a woman. They went through some challenges and made a family - and had 10 daughters. When they came of age, men came to ask for their hands and they had to proof how serious they are so they are allowed to marry a girl and become the patriarch of one of the peoples' tribes. There is a play on the numbers here - the original legend has 9 sisters, the perfect nine here are actually 10 because one of the sister's history is a bit different. 9 will remain important across the poem (and 7 seems to be showing up in bad situations - I would have a note on the numbers and their meaning in the culture). Some of the challenges for the grooms-to-be are mundane, some are supernatural (there are a lot of ogres in this mythology). Men die, men give up, men behave badly. Until 10 remain. Cue weddings, children, more heartbreak and the end of the story, mirroring the beginning. Some of the parts work better as poetry than others; some sound almost like prose which had been spaced weirdly (but then a lot of modern poetry feels like that to me). The story is straight forward but its beauty is in the details. And that's where the English translation fails a bit. Most of the daughters have more 2 different names (one has 3 - one used only once when she is listed and another 2 used any other time she is mentioned, including when she is introduced) and it is never clear why or what the names really mean - we learn some of the backstory of some names but I cannot stop thinking that these make a LOT more sense in their own language. And I am sure a lot of the story details pinged on something in the soul of a person who had grown up in the culture - the way my culture's local legends can do it for me when I listen to them. I hope that one day there will be annotated version of this book (or that someone will add some notes on a later edition) - maybe some of the failures of the book will actually clear out when the background is there. The book was part of the 2021 Man Booker International Prize Longlist and I can see why - it is different and it kinda works. But I suspect that who wrote it also played a role. It was my introduction to Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o and as it was his first foray into epic poetry, it was probably not the best possible one. I plan to read more of him - he had been on my radar for awhile. And despite its problems, I am glad to have read this one.

“I will tell the tale of Gikuyu and Mumbi And their daughters, the Perfect Nine, Matriarchs of the house of Mumbi, Founders of their nine clans, Progenitors of a nation.” Longlisted for the 2021 International Booker Prize, the Perfect Nine is Ngugi wa Thiong’o's examination of his cultural origins (the founding of the Gĩkũyũ people of Kenya) which took the epic poetry format. This epic main revolves around Gikuyu and Mumbi's 10 beautiful and courageous daughters, whereby 99 suitors came and seek their hands in marriage. Gikuyu and Mumbi set several challenges for these suitors to assess whether they are worthy of their daughters. The final challenge involves the plucking of hairs from an ogre's (Mwengeca, king of ogres) tongue in order to cure their 10th daughter's crippled legs. The suitors, together with the 9 other daughters, in the search of the ogre, faced many different hurdles. Ultimately, they managed to overcome the challenges, and the 9 clans Gikuyu tribe of Kenya were formed. The Perfect Nine is a perfect blend of African folklore, mythology, adventure, magic, and culture. While the retelling of this mythology may seem to be simplistic, the beauty of this epic lies in the language and translation of the epic (whereby this novel was written in Gikuyu and translated to English by Ngugi wa Thiong’o himself). In such a short book with short sentences, the author still managed to capture the atmosphere of the African landscape and tribal culture. Like all epics, important moral values were inculcated: humility, wisdom, courage, unity, and family. While they are cliche, such values are lacking among humans. What strikes me is the condemnation against war/cruelty among humans, which is pertinent in light of the current turbulence in certain countries: "Human-to-human cruelty is worse than that of beast to human. Worse still is the cruelty among neighbors when it drives them To raise machetes, spears, arrows, and clubs against one another.” All in all, The Perfect Nine is definitely an insightful read! Definitely deserves a strong 4/5 star rating!

I received a digital copy of this book from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. This is an epic poem retelling the folklore surrounding the origins of Kenya's Gikuyu people. While folklore and mythology are not my favorite genres (I tend to prefer more character-driven stories), I enjoyed this exposure to Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o's writing and Kenyan cultural history. Thiong'o wrote The Perfect Nine in his native tongue, Gikuyu, and translated himself to English; as a fan of translated literature I thought this was a really cool opportunity to read a translation perfectly true to the author's intent. I was pleasantly surprised by the feminist elements of this story, and was impressed by Thiong'o's ability to write women in particular! I recommend this story to readers interested in novels in verse and/or mythology.

Now longlisted for the 2023 Women’s Prize. Re-read following its shortlisting for the 2022 Booker Prize - I had always expected it to be a strong contender and deliberately read ahead of the longlist announcement. I have to say that the book worked better on a re-read and would I think be a worthy winner (although so would most of the shortlist). 7th in my longlist rankings (and so on the fringe of my own shortlist) - my Bookstagram rating, ranking, summary review and Book themed Golden Retriever photo is here: https://www.instagram.com/p/ChT2_KyMV... ORIGINAL REVIEW The sign that says 'Bulawayo, 10km' takes her by surprise - it doesn't feel to her she's even been that long on the road. Yes, you've actually been that long on the road, Destiny, and besides it being a relatively short drive you've been practically flying most of the time. And good thing you slowed down when you did, otherwise you'd have missed the turn. Bulawayo-Bulawayo-Bulawayo. She says the name out loud, lets it linger in the mouth, thinking, and not for the first time, What a dark, dark name.Meaning, where one gets killed, where there is killing. Yes, tholukuthi an ominous name that has made Destiny wonder endlessly about the proph-ecy of names, the terrible odds that the events of April 18, 1983, and the dark immediate years would fulfil the name. And in just a short while, she thinks, slowing down a bit, she'll be standing on Bulawayo earth. A kind of home, yes, but also a ruin. A place of slaughter. Of massacre. Of devastation and despair. Of blood and tears. Of disruption. Of the annihilation of families and family lines . This is the second novel by the Zimbabwean born author Elizabeth Zandile Tshele who, writing under her pen name (inspired by the name of her late mother’s name and closest City to her home) was shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 2013 for her debut “We Need New Names”. Revisiting both my own reactions to that book (10 years or so later) and looking at other reviews from my Goodreads friends, my subjective impression is that “We Need New Names” was a book that was perhaps more admired than loved – one people perhaps felt they appreciated (perhaps as it was the first Black African woman to be shortlisted) more than they actually enjoyed (the book itself a slightly uneasy mix of two stories which did not entirely coalesce into a novel) – with most reviews at the 3-4 star level. This second novel’s genesis was the author’s return to her birth county after the 2017 coup which deposed Robert Mugabe (and is increasingly influential young wife Grace, associated with Generation 40 young and post-independence-war faction), after 40 years of increasingly despotic rule. She witnessed the chaos of the post-Mugabe elections which lead to the rather inevitable election of Mugabe’s Deputy/VP Emmerson Mnangagwa (whose dismissal was a key trigger for the military coup, and whose nickname “Ngwena” means crocodile, leading to his faction of war veterans being known as Team Lacoste) and whose claims of a New Dispensation of economic policies proved short lived. Initially thinking to write a non-fiction or then conventional fiction tale of what she was witnessing (and particularly how the post-coup hopes of the common people were quickly dashed) she decided to write a tale which drew explicitly on both George Orwell’s “Animal Farm” (a common analogy used in Zimbabwean political discourse) and on local animal-based folk-storytelling traditions – to write what is more a satirical analogy of the situation The novel is set in a fictionalised country Jidada ruled (with the support of his attack dog para-military police force – The Defenders) at the start of the book by an ancient horse “The Father of the Nation”, whose young and ambitious Donkey wife Marvellous leads a young activist faction resented by the veteran Army Generals and who frequently makes attacks on the Vice President (also an aged horse, but with the brooding presence of a crocodile) Tuvy. Tuvy’s suspension leads in turn to a military coup, the hollow proclamation (including by a flock of specially trained birds) of a New Dispensation and a #freefairncredible election which is rigged from the outset to ensure Tuvy’s victory and the continued rule of the independence war veterans. Now a word on the use of animals in the novel. These are very anthropomorphic animals – in fact it is probably better to say that they are effectively humans in animal form but living in our 21st Century world. It is not like (it seems to me) Orwell’s book where the animal nature of the characters and in fact their progress/descent into human like behaviour is key to the plot, here the characters act like humans in almost every way (for example voting at 18, early pregnancies, taking showers) and in a world which, other than the fictionalised Jidada seems identical to our own (for example leaders flying on a plane to Devos, Chinese influence in Africa). I had initially wondered if the different animals would represent or mimic tribal identity (but if they did it was not clear to) or if the humans in the novel would be the Westernised/colonising powers – but there are references to white animals and black animals, animals of the same type from different tribes and the President of America is a Twitter using baboon. Yes Twitter as the world of social media is important to the novel – two excellent chapters consisting entirely of debate by Twitter about the political progress in Jidada and more generally the online and offline worlds are important in the novel. So that very soon it was noted that Jidada was actually not a country but two countries - there was of course the Country Country that was the real, physical space in which Jidadans walked and lived and queued and suffered and got pained, and then there was the Other Country, where Jidadans logged on and roared and raged and vented. My understanding is that the author used animal characters as a way to both gain some distance from the events she is describing and to bring her own unique take on the situation, she also has said she thinks it increases the Universality of the book. I have to say that I think the same might have been accompanied in different ways – for example as in Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o’s “The Wizard of the Crow” or Wole Soyinka’s “Chronicles From The Land of the Happiest People on Earth” but what I think did work is that the approach made the book slightly more immediately accessible than those brilliant novels. Some of the writing can be a little grating, perhaps most of all the repetition of “Jidada with a -da and another -da”; the extremely liberal sprinklings of the word “tholukuthi” (meaning something like “you find out that” and which is from from the dance protest song Tholukuthi-Hey - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6tVbi...) or the “When those who know about things said at this time XXX, they meant XXX” formulation. And despite the appearance of accessibility and claim to Universality, the book also I think relies for any meaningful appreciation on (or more positively gives the reader an excuse to gain) a detailed knowledge of Zimbabwean history – little that happens in the book (at least from my Googling) does not have a fairly direct link, or at least very strong allusion, to actual events As an example the post-independence Gukurahundi genocide - which becomes increasingly important to the novel through the character of Destiny (a goat) who fled the country for exile after arrest and torture for her part in pro-democracy demonstrations after a rigged election, and whose return and discovery of the trauma that her mother went through many years before is a large part of the narrative after the first third of the novel and also provides the most harrowing part of the novel and one of its two most powerful set of scenes. Interestingly though the second most powerful set of scenes are those with which the book ends – which depart from Zimbabwe’s actual history to date by setting out a hopeful path for Jidada and one hopes for the actual country itself. Overall I think this was an impressive piece of writing – again one I perhaps admired more than I always enjoyed and again I think one likely to be a strong Booker Prize contender. "This war was as complicated thing, Mother of Destiny. If I don't write this book then one day animals calling themselves the Real Liberators and True Patriots will call ugly names and then erase us from the story of the very country we sacrificed so much for because now that the war is over many will be perceived of the wrong ethnic group, the wrong clan, the wrong gender, the wrong clique, the wrong politics, the wrong whatever else they decide constitutes authentic Jidadaness. If I don't write, who will I blame when I then wake up One day to find myself in the belly of a crocodile that calls itself History, that devours the stories of everyone else and goes on to speak for us"

Shortlisted for Booker Prize 2022 Set in the fictional land of animals, Glory is a satirical take on Robert Mugabe’s fall and its aftermath in Zimbabwe. The country was under British colonial rule until 1980, when after years of civil war, it finally gained independence and Mugabe got elected as the first prime minister. He stayed in power till a coup d'état in 2017, despite large-scale corruption, civil unrest, a declining economy and a genocide. The country is renamed Jidada in the story, and different characters are turned into different animals. It follows multiple characters and POVs – an old horse as the ‘father of the nation’, a donkey as his ambitious wife, another horse as the new prime minister, a mother and daughter pair of goats – while taking the reader through different parts of history and politics of the nation. It shows the falls of the first prime minister, the takeover by different people from the same party and initial joy of the common people and their desperation when no improvement comes under the new regime. It ends on a hopeful note showing a path the real country is yet to take. Although Glory is said to be inspired by Animal Farm, the animals here are extremely anthropomorphic. They live is houses, go to schools, travel to different nations and squabble on social media. The way this story is written, it’s very easy to project everything happening to humans, which makes the historically inspired events spine-chilling, but makes me wonder what the purpose of writing it with animals was. I can imagine the story told with humans and have a very similar impact. But the writing is powerful. Very powerful. The short section on the Gukurahundi genocide told in a flashback is disturbingly well-written. The chapters dedicated to the Twitter war between different animals are fantastic. This book will move you to tears, but more often it will terrify you to realize that it’s not really fiction. For someone like me who had no idea of Zimbabwe’s politics, this book is a much-needed lesson in less popularized African history. Sometimes the writing felt grating because of the overuse of certain phrases or sentences, but that might be the author’s purpose as well. Also, I listened to the audio version narrated by Chipo Chung, and what an incredible performance it is. A story that deserves attention and is highly deserving of the Booker nomination.

In her 2022 surrealist satirical novel Glory, author NoViolet Bulawayo welcomes readers to the fictional country of Jidada. Jidada is a mélange of African countries, their current sociopolitical climates, and their recent histories; having been colonized, plundered, and exploited—by white Europe and the USA, now finding its footing with the ideas of Freedom and Independence. This footing might be found on bipedal feet or quadrupeds; on paws, on flippers. On hooves, on fins, for the citizens of Jidada, just like Orwell's Animal Farm, is a beast fable 🫏🦆🐈🐄🐎🐊🐕🐏🐖 Despite Glory's unlikely storytellers, their insightful tale tells us of our own world. It illustrates the myriad ways colonialism harms, and its seemingly everlasting aftereffects. When soil has been salted, what can be expected to grow there? Haven't the farmers left with the land the right to be frustrated? When crops fail to sprout, and one's life is a cycle of hardship, those difficulties will doubtlessly inform lifelong decision-making. Not everyone who was hungry, once fed, will become a hero. Not always, once one's plate is full, will they be eager to share. Having known lack, the impulse is strong to accumulate and hoard. And then there are others who become heroes, despite hardship; those who look at the salted land not with despair, but hope. They might take radical action to make change, but so often is that the lesson: When the old ways don't work, it's not always a matter of trying them again, or trying to fix them. Sometimes, you just have to toss them out for something new. Having been raised in America, my history education was almost exclusively European, and subsequently have more context for Animal Farm's allegory than I do for Glory's. While it keeps the reader up to speed on the broad strokes of modern Africa through its fictional Jidada, I know I'd appreciate its intricacies the more if only I had brought more knowledge in with me. This in mind, I can't say what groups or interests the different species of animals represented here stand for, aside from the crocodiles and butterflies, like I can those in Animal Farm. Additionally, I recently read Bulawayo's stunning debut We Need New Names and adored her character work on Darling and her friends and family. While Glory has as much pathos as We Need New Names had, I wish it also featured a more central character like Darling. I felt myself most compelled while reading about Destiny and her family history. Perhaps it's shallow of me, but I almost wish the novel was told mostly through her eyes.

NoViolet Bulawayo’s second novel is a retelling of the 2017 Zimbabwean coup. Actually retelling is not the right word as it sticks to the historical facts. The difference is that instead of people, animals are used to represent to main historical figures – thus Mugabe is an old horse while Grace is a Donkey, in a masterstroke Trump is called the tweeting baboon. This allows NoViolet Bulawayo to create some comic set pieces. The obvious comparison to Glory is Animal Farm as it also depicted a terrorised society which underwent a coup, promise of a new regime with only the leaders benefitting with people represented by animals. However I think the usage of animals just accentuates the universality of these moments in history. What I’m trying to say is that if the same type of political upheaval happened in Russia it will happen in Zimbabwe so why not use animals to represent all this. I do not see Glory as a homage to Animal Farm but rather a kindred soul. There is more though. Bulawayo adds a meta element to the story, even slyly referencing the title of her previous book, We need Names, which gives glory a fairy-tale like sheen. I found that quite clever. Plus there are segments which give more insight to the plot via tweets. If one thought that social media in novels is a gimmick, Bulawayo destroys that notion. I also liked the fact that she also drops the hint that freedom can be achieved through the power of literature. These touches give the book more depth. In theory this could be an accessible book but what will make the reader gravitate towards Glory is the idiosyncratic writing style. It’s loose, inventive, cyclical there’s interjections, a lot of fourth wall breaking: it’s like reading a dozen firecrackers exploding off a page but if the reader can handle it, there will be rewards. I have always believed that the line between humour and tragedy is a fine one and NoViolet Bulawayo crosses that line many time. As sparky the text is and absurdity some of the situations, there is a lot of serious violence going on. Very rarely does one manage to pull off something like and NoViolet Bulawayo does excellently.

incredible. should be required reading

Rating: 4.5 stars Net Promoter Score: 9 Words not only mattered but they were power. Words were muti. Words were weapons. Words were magic. Words were church. Words were wealth. Words were life. A satire set in the fictional country of Jidada in the African continent, this is a good read about dictators and dictatorship. Inspired by real life events and Animal Farm, this is a great read that talks about various political facades we see on today’s world. My only complaint is the pace of the book which can get boring in the middle. Otherwise - Highly recommend this one.

NoViolet Bulawayo found a truly unique voice for her retelling of Zimbabwean history. Though this is kind of satire, the characters and events stay relevant and leave a mark.

“Words not only mattered but they were power. Words were muti. Words were weapons. Words were magic. Words were church. Words were wealth. Words were life.” NoViolet Bulawayo's Glory is at it's best is a literary acrobat displaying her skills and at worst an ode to Orwell's Animal Farm. But the unique voice of the book in Satire is worthy of applause. By making all it's character as animals, the book lets our guard down. Set in the fictional country of Jidada, the book has a moving POV that covers all it's characters including the people of Jidada. When the old tyrant Horse is brought down by a coup, the animals of Jidada start hoping for a new world. There is Euphoria, there is villification of the tyrant and there is an anticipation for free and fair elections. What subsequently happens is a predictable affair with one tyrant replaced with another and the people despair and hope for a revolution. To contrast two generations, she gets this goat called destiny in search of her mad mother. The mother was traumatised by the mass genocide and the mother and daughter compare physical and mental scars made by the politics. The satire adopts various devices that are more effective in an audiobook format. Like she describes corruption as when the animals "taketaketaketaketake" (for 3-4 mins straight) or when there is a mirror of Black Lives matter where "I Can't Breathe" is repeated for 2-3 minutes. I did find myself zoning out with the chapters around the crocodile and did not realise the significance till I read the reviews. The ambition of the book is breathtaking and since it is inspired by History, scares you a bit. Fantastic storytelling and a worthy booker nominee (and possible winner).

Longlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize Your Jaffa resembles mine. But it is not the same. Two cities impersonating each other. You carved your names in my city, so I feel like I am a returnee from history. Always tired, roaming my own life like a ghost, a ghost who lives in your city. You too are a ghost, living in mine. And we call both cities Jaffa. The Book of Disappearance is Sinan Antoon's translation of a 2014 original سفر الاختفاء by Ibtisam Azem. Antoon has previously featured in the International Booker Prize, in its earlier form as the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize, as self-translator of his own novel, وحدها شجرة الرمان / The Corpse Washer, one of only three author/translators to achieve this. His translation of this book was originally published in 2019 by Syracuse Press in the US, but was re-edited and UK published by And Other Stories in 2024, hence its eligiblity this year. And this is clearly a very timely book to publish - the author's own recent take on it here at Arab Lit, and since then we've had the bizarre and disturbing spectacle of the US President posting approvingly a 'Trump Gaza' video that was intended as political satire. The novel is set in Jaffa and Tel Aviv, and the underlying premise is a Saramago-like parable of imagination - what would happen if all the Palestinians in Israel vanished overnight. The novel is largely told from two perspectives, that of Alaa, whose grandmother was in Jaffa in 1948, one of a small minority (just 4,000 from a population of 100,000) to remain in the city after it was captured by the Haganah; and that of his neighbour and friend Ariel, a journalist and liberal Zionist. Alaa disappears along with the other Palestinians, and his story is one that is largely read by Ariel from his diaries, which he discovers when he enters Alaa's empty flat, in the form of a letter to Alaa's late grandmother. This portrays very effectively her palimpsestic view of the city that lies underneath the modern-day city, and the lives of those who lived there before. I was certain there was another city on top of the one we lived in, wearing it. I was certain that your city, the one you kept talking about, which has the same name, has nothing to do with my city. It resembles it a great deal. The names, orange groves, scents, al-Hamra Cinema, Apollo, weddings, Prophet Rubin's feast, Iskandar Awad Street, al-Nuzha Street, al-Sa'a Square... etc. Where do all these names come from? We would be walking and you start mentioning other names too. Names not written on signs. I had to learn to see what you were seeing. And all those people. I got to know their problems, how they were forced to leave Jaffa. I knew all the boring (and at times interesting) details of their lives. I knew the jokes they used to tell. All this without having met a single one of them. And I probably never will. Ariel is focused on the pre 1948 architecture of Tel Aviv, particularly the 4,000 Bauhaus-style buildings constructed by those fleeing Nazi Germany, particularly after the Bauhaus school was closed in 1933: The memory of white, and the memory of black. Does a place have memory? What if we were to take a person who knew nothing of the place's history, not even its name or geographic location, and we took him and had him walk in the city or place, would he feel the place's memory? Which memory? Ariel wondered this while remembering arguments he had with Alaa on this subject. He was looking at street signs and names. He was counting the important landmarks of the avenue: the architecture, houses, and stories he had read or heard. This city has the largest number of Bauhaus buildings, the style fascism banned. Bauhaus found its freedom here: creative architecture, whose philosophy broke free from complexity to combine form and function. This style of architecture found a home in this tiny country after it fled fascist Europe, Ariel thought as he looked at the buildings. But he couldn't hide his admiration of the ones designed by Yehuda Magidovitch, whose original style one recognizes in many houses on Rothschild. Ariel laughed when he remembered the story he read about Churchill's visit, and how Dizengoff, then the mayor, took big old trees from adjacent areas and spread them around so they would appear as if they had been there for a lifetime. But one tree fell down and embarrassed him. Laughing, Churchill said, "Without roots nothing will grow here." The disappearance of the Palestinians is deliberately not explained in the novel which focuses on the reaction of the Jewish community which remains. The initial assumption is it must be a general strike, or a preparation for an attack, or possibly a masterstroke executed by the Israeli authorities, but one reaction is relief, as Ariel explains in one of his press articles included in the novel: I have known fear and have lived through strange days during which we believed, even if briefly during wars, that we only had two options: life or death. As if we were reliving the fear of Masada once again. "Masada Will Not Fall Again" was and still is the slogan that sums up the general mood here. Considering how foggy things are today, this slogan is on people's minds more than ever. Everyone is on high alert. I experienced this personally before, during the two intifadas, the war in southern Lebanon, Saddam's Scud missile attack, and the wars with Hezbollah and Hamas. Let alone the bus explosions. But today is different. The city that never rests, as its denizens like to say, rested for the first time in its history. And as it becomes clearer they really have simply vanished, settlers start to move in to 'consecrate' the abandoned houses, whereas others simply see the opportunity to acquire some nice real estate. The Israeli government announces that all citizens must register at a census office, or if overseas either return to Israel or register with an Israeli embassy, by 3 a.m. on the day which marks 48 hours since the disappearance, or they will lose their right to reside in the country. But the novel ends as 3am passes, somewhat ambiguously - something happens, but what is left to the reader. I do have some reservations about the novel. On a longlist that features some excellent prose, in a variety of styles, this was a little flat. And the Saramago-like element - the aftermath of the disappearance - felt it could have been further developed - all the action takes place in just 48 hours, with more confusion than anything, with little on how the society would have coped (e.g. would, as some secular characters fear, they become the next focus of attention). On the positive side, for a book that is clearly written by someone with a particular view of the situation - the Nakba and the colonial nature of the Israeli occupation - the character of Ariel was sympathetically drawn and the reader largely left to form their own views. And the portrayal of Jaffa and Tel Aviv and the city beneath the city, is very effectively done. 3.5 stars rounded to 4. The judges' take Speculative and meditative, haunting and deeply humane, Azem’s second novel is an exceptional exercise in memory-making, history, and psycho-geography. The premise – the overnight disappearance of all Palestinians – is at once ambitious and audacious, shocking and unsettling. The author dares us to imagine, and from this place of imagination erupts a challenge: to read differently, against the grain. The book alternates between the perspectives of Alaa (whose grandmother was displaced during the Nakba) and his neighbour-friend Ariel (a liberal Zionist journalist), between past and present. Azem’s strength is in having fun with a conceit that’s not for the faint-hearted. We found that this palimpsestic and potent novel – originally published over a decade ago, and translated into English with a coolness and spareness – offered newfound socio-political, moral and emotional resonances and implications in the current climate.

What if all Palestinians vanished from their homeland overnight? Would that be enough for Israelis to feel safety or even that would be taken as an act of terrorism and exploited in a victimising way in favour of Israel? “The Book of Disappearance” by Ibtisam Azem, is a book I wished I have read 10 years ago. I would be angry for 10 more years, but I would have known earlier history and I would have contributed in my way in creating memory. It’s a difficult book because of its content, but easy to digest as we already know a lot after the events of October the 7th. It is written using 2 different perspectives: that of Alaa, a young Palestinian who recently lost his grandma and lives devastated among her past memories in Tel Aviv, and the other of Ariel, Alaa’s friend, who is a liberal zionist working as a journalist. When all Palestinians disappear with no explanation one morning, Ariel will try to understand what happened and in his effort to do so he will read Alaa’s personal journal. But will he understand the illusion and deception of Zionism or indulge in acts similarly to what a settler would do? The writing is beautiful, almost magnetic. Especially Alaa’s part that is so lyrical and poetic. As a whole it feels like an existential piece of literature and it will make you reflect a lot on the distortion of history, colonialism, love, loss and resilience. No wonder it is long listed for the International Booker Prize this year. This is a book about love and loss. The importance of your ancestors in shaping your life. How the death of someone you love equals emptiness. Dying the way you want to and the difficulties of starting anew within sorrow. A story about zionism and antisemitism. The irrational belief of having a godly right to kill and expel people. Colonialism and occupation that make people live as shadows among shadows and cities unable to recognise their people. Stolen houses that come with stolen memories. It is also a book about the cleanest campaign of ethnic cleansing witnessed by humanity and the use of victimisation by Israel to fulfil its purpose. Genocide and forced displacement. Racism, persecution, suffering, political prisoners and refugees. War crimes and rape as a war tactic. Lives that according to some people have no value and souls coming loose. Discriminatory policies and cultivation of fear and hatred. The power to decide who lives and who dies. A book about history and memory. The importance of knowledge of events against the unstoppable spreading of lies. Asking questions to learn the truth and listening to the breath of cities bearing witness to stories. Engraved memories that have holes and lies served as general truths. Mostly though, this is a book about loving life and never losing hope even when you have every right to. Seeing beauty in ugliness and believing in ideas that become weapons of liberation. The liberty to believe in whatever you want. The illusion that armies follow laws and adhere to humanist values. The potential of believing in tolerance and dialogue and finding a solution. A viable solution for every human life. This is a 4-4.5/5 for me! Why should you read “The Book of Disappearance”: Because you will realise that the love for your country can make you choose to die there instead of leaving. Because you will acknowledge that leaving and staying, as conditions, can both hurt you the same and irreversibly. Because you will accept that what is just another day for you, can be the most traumatic day in the life of someone else. Because you will understand that people wither away and die when they no longer savour life. Because you will feel how strange and irrational is people wishing on your death just because of your race or origin. Because you will confirm that history is never fully recorded and our memory is always truncated. Because you will cherish what the holocaust taught us: that the desire to live always triumphs over the desire to murder. Because you will realise, if you still haven't, that a new holocaust is taking place, and unfortunately Palestinians are the new Jews. Favourite quotes: “Survivors are lonely”. “An illusion is enough to live the lie that later becomes the truth”. “You used to say that you would walk in the morning, but couldn’t recognize the city or the streets. As if they, too, were expelled along with the people who were forced to leave”. “We inherit memory the way we inherit the color of our eyes and skin. We inherit the sound of laughter just as we inherit the sound of tears. Your memory pains me”. “I write to remember and to remind, so memories are not erased. Memory is my last lifeline”. “What we live is truncated. Even what I lived is truncated is my memory. As if my memory is a glass house, full of cracks like wrinkles, but still it stands. From inside it we can see out, but something is muddled. “Muddled” doesn’t mean our view is hazy, or that both points of view are equal. These are the lies of those who write in the white books that we are forced to read. It is muddled because the pain is too great for us to endure looking out through the memory house. So we store memory in a black box inside our heads and hearts, but it pains us and gnaws from within. And we rust, day after day. Yes, rust. I wonder at times why I feel all this sadness. Where does it come from? I realize soon thereafter: your memory is a burden that pains me.” “There are so many wars around us we’ve gotten used to them”.

A brilliant Palestinian novel about a day where all Palestinian's suddenly vanish from their homeland. Ariel is a 'liberal Zionist' who says he is openminded but remains faithful to Israel. His Palestinian neighbour, Alaa, is one of the people who goes missing and Ariel spends the following days reading through Alaa's writing and discovering his inner thoughts and the history of his family. This was a fascinating book which I found really haunting and I enjoyed reading about the fallout of the disappearance and how Israel dealt with being out of control of the situation and not knowing what had happened to the Arab people. It was written really well and I liked how it focused on the two main characters whilst also having some chapters that focused on Jaffa as a whole and how it has affected the entire community.

‘We inherit memory the way we inherit the colour of our eyes and skin. We inherit the sound of laughter just as we inherit the sound of tears. Your memory pains me.’ This is an interesting, thought-provoking novel from Palestinian writer Ibtisam Azem, getting a timely English language publication as tensions rise again in the region. In almost magic realism style the book posits the idea: what if every single Palestinian in Israel simply vanished overnight? What the book examines is at the very heart of the ongoing political situation in the region. Mainly switching between two narratives the book, at first, seems to give a balanced view of the situation: Ariel, a Jewish journalist, lives in the same block of flats as his Palestinian neighbour Alaa, a freelance cameraman. Alaa has recently lost his grandmother, who pretty much raised him, and has been writing his thoughts and ideas in a red notebook, which Ariel finds when he goes to search Alaa’s flat for signs of evidence for his disappearance. What we get is a fairly rounded portrait of Jaffa and Tel Aviv and the juxtaposing of two very different religions and ideologies behind the disputed territory. Ariel is a liberal, who questions the occupation but is a committed believer of the Jewish state, while Alaa and his family’s history lays bare the trauma of becoming a refugee in your own country. Gradually, as it becomes evident that no-one will be returning, Ariel moves into Alaa’s apartment and starts to choose passages of the notebook which he will then use as a basis to write his own book on the disappearance. The symbolism is not lost: here, in miniature, is an act of occupation and re-writing – the very claims made by Palestinians against the Jewish state. There is much made of memory, of belonging and history. At one point Ariel asks Alaa why he stays: ‘Because this is my Palestine, and I want to live wherever I please.’ There is a fable-like, magical feel to the book; the disappearance is never explained, and we are left with no suggestion of whether they will return. In part it causes a crisis of identity for the Israeli state, and this is one of the interesting undertones of the book. Here is a story of identity, but identity forged in opposition to, or contrast with, another. Jewish versus Palestinian – take one away and how do we then define the other? A fascinating take on the Middle East situation which, while it is clearly sympathetic to the Palestinians, attempts to dig under the skin of the state of Israel to understand it better. A brave and worthy read, it will stay with me for a while, I suspect. Definitely recommended.

When liberal Zionist and journalist Ariel, The Book of Disappearance’s main protagonist, wakes up and discovers all Palestinians have vanished. This is including his best friend Alaa. Ariel feels that he has to investigate this phenomenon. He raids Alaa’s flat and discovers his notebooks Ariel discovers a letter to Alaa’s grandmother who spoke about life before the events of 1948. Slowly Ariel realizes the complex history of his country. In between the family history, the book focuses on the reaction of the Jewish population to this sudden vanishing (they think it’s for an upcoming air strike) Although the novel was written in 2014, its themes still ring true today. I guess the adage that history repeats itself is true. I’ve always said that the Booker has a tendency to choose literature which mirrors world events and there’s proof in that with The Book of Disappearance. Recommended

I have one good thing to say about the book. The writing and the translation are very good. The style is impressive, it's got these mournful, elegiac undertones that riveted me to the page, and there are moments while reading the Palestinian character's diary when a wave of sorrow just passed through me. It's the third time this year, I may be getting too sentimental for my own good. I definitely recommend that everyone read this book. The prose is so gloriously beautiful. So, like I mentioned before, this is the one important good thing I have to say about it, nothing more.

First read from the 2025 International Booker Prize longlist. What if all Palestinian citizens of Israel disappeared overnight? The Book of Disappearance by Ibtisam Azem takes this unsettling premise and unspools its implications through two intertwined perspectives: Alaa, a Palestinian journalist burdened by his grandmother’s memories of the Nakba that displaced many Palestinians since 1948, and Ariel, his Israeli friend, who wakes up to a world suddenly missing its Palestinian population. As Ariel searches for answers, what emerges isn’t just a mystery, but a quiet reckoning with absence, memory and the fragility of narratives we take for granted. Set against the layered histories of Jaffa and Tel Aviv, the novel is as much about place as it is about people. Jaffa, once a thriving Palestinian city, stands in contrast to the modern sprawl of neighbouring Tel Aviv, a reminder of what was and what’s been erased. Through shifting perspectives, Azem captures the unease of those left behind, forcing us to sit with uncomfortable questions: What does it mean to exist only as a memory? What remains when an entire people vanishes, not just physically, but from history itself? Azem wrote the novel in response to real political rhetoric as Israeli leaders fantasising about Palestinians simply disappearing. Here, she flips that thought experiment into stark reality, exposing the contradictions within Israeli society, especially through Ariel, a self-proclaimed liberal Zionist who believes in justice but remains tethered to the structures of Israeli occupation. The book doesn’t seek to provide answers, only to lay bare the cracks in the foundation of what many see as an immutable reality. This isn’t just a political novel. Azem’s prose is spare but deeply evocative, balancing the personal with the historical in a way that lingers long after the final page. Its power is in what’s left unsaid, what’s missing, what’s erased, and what refuses to be forgotten.

4.5. I suspect this book will sit with me for a very long time.

I started reading this novel exactly one day after the Trump administration ordered the “disappearance” of Mahmoud Khalil, a pro-Palestinian activist responsible for student protests in New York. It is striking to me how this book has taken on new meanings in light of the recent events. It shows that we simply cannot let Palestinian voices disappear, we must let their stories be heard, otherwise the aggressor’s agenda will eventually prevail. When it comes to the story itself, I loved the superimposed narratives - a somewhat liberal Israeli is reading a diary of a Palestinian who grieves his late grandmother. Through the eyes of the Zionist, we can see how the reality can be easily distorted. It was an interesting critique of “modern”liberals who claim to be open-minded and progressive, but beneath it all, they are comfortable being the oppressor. Other highlights for me were the reactions of people of different backgrounds to the sudden disappearance, as well as the beautiful descriptions of Jaffa. However, it pains me to say that the translation/editing of the book left much to be desired. The writing was oftentimes very awkward and I say this as a non-native English speaker.

If a genocide plays out leisurely across our screens over many months and years, is it still a genocide? This seems to be at the crux of the debate over whether what Israel is doing — what Israel has been doing — to the Palestinian people in Gaza can be classified as genocide. Those on the "it's not genocide" side (your Bill Mahers and Bret Stephens of the world) argue that it's not genocide because if Israel really wanted to do away with the Palestinian people, they could do so much more efficiently, much more quickly, by eradicating them with the sophisticated weaponry gifted to them by the United States, among others. These people somehow ignore the fact that the bombs have been raining down on Gaza for years now, as if somehow the bombs weren't "effective" enough, but never mind. But starvation? It's too crude a weapon to be used by such an elite state, these enablers claim, too crude because it's too slow. A truly sophisticated state that wanted the death of an entire population of people would resort to other, faster methods. And thus this can't be genocide. So it goes. This semantic nonsense serves today as some twisted sideshow to distract the world from the fact that, through a variety of means, Israel is killing off tens of thousands of people while we all watch it happen, but that Israel can't be doing it intentionally because it's all happening so slowly. "The Book of Disappearance" is about the disappearance of an entire population of people too, albeit in one fell swoop. One day Israelis wake up to find that their entire Arab population has just disappeared, seemingly into thin air. No explanation. There's debate and anxiety among Israelis over this fact but, mostly, celebration, as the "threat" posed by the Palestinians living within their borders has suddenly been wiped out. It's a fantastic book, all the more riveting because it echoes what's happening today, right now, just in slower motion so we can all watch it happen and argue about whether it's actually happening at all.

A wonderful book from Palestine. Open ended book which calls to the world for discussion.

“How could we walk the same path, and look at the same sea, yet see something so completely different?” (from Alaa’s red notebook). If you have ever wished your problems would just go away then The Book of Disappearance is the speculative fiction you need to read. The novel poses the question: What would happen if all Palestinians simply disappeared from Israel, the West Bank, Gaza, overnight? With no explanation, no apparent struggle - simply vanished leaving behind their homes and belongings. Told mostly through the voices of two friends, Alaa & Ariel, this is a great book to read if you want to try to understand some of the day to day realities of living in Tel Aviv. “Tel Aviv is awash with desire, just as Jerusalem is awash with religious people and soldiers. Tel Aviv is the city of sins, as its denizens like to call it.” The dual point of view and the cameo scenes from other characters work well to illustrate the way Palestinians are either exploited or in some way compromised, and the perceived helplessness some Israelis feel to effect change. Because of course, change might mean sacrifice for them. The book is not perfect - a bit clunky in places and some parts don’t make sense but overall I loved the way we can really understand Alaa’s feelings of abandonment and hopelessness, his anger and despair, all part of his lived experience. Many have heard of the Holocaust but not many know about the Nakba. Why is this? The book is also a tribute to Jaffa, the Jaffa of Alaa’s grandmother, who treats the old city as an entity of its own free will, with its many layers of history and life. All in all, the reader is left with many questions. What happens when we seek to erase history? Who gets to decide who lives where? Why can’t we peacefully co-exist? How much of this “tension” between neighbours the world over is created by political manipulation? Whose truth is the truth? Some very big questions for a little book. “Survivors are lonely”.

This was book was deservedly long listed for the International Booker Prize 2025 and I was disappointed it didn’t make the shortlist. The author uses an interesting premise, the unexplained disappearance of all the Israeli Arabs overnight, to explore the experience of being a Palestinian within Israel. The main protagonists are Alaa, who is Palestinian, and Ariel, his Jewish friend: an unlikely but possible friendship. Alaa is present initially in dialogue with his friend Ariel and they have some heated discussions about the terrible political and societal realities of living in Jaffa. Is Tel Avis a suburb of Jaffa or vice versa? It depends on your point of view. When Alaa disappears, Ariel reads his diary, mainly addressed to his much loved but dead Grandmother. The dehumanising of the Palestinians is clearly outlined: seizure of homes and livelihoods; random violence; segregation of Arab communities behind barbed wire; the tearing apart of families dating back to the expulsion of many Palestinians in 1948: the Nakba. The most disturbing part of the book is the reaction of the Israelis to the disappearance of their Arab neighbours and workforce. Initially there is frustration: no one to do the menial jobs then this is replaced by jubilation and resettling of the now empty Arab houses and also concern about international reaction to the disappearance. It seemed reminiscent of The Safekeep and Nazi occupied Netherlands. Overall a very interesting read, occasionally repetitive, but nonetheless worthwhile to highlight the Middle East from the Palestinian perspective.

I loved the book even if I struggle in the first half of it. That was mainly due to the fact that it reads like a scriptplay rather than a novel. I still think that a movie would be a great support for the story. In the second half of the book it did not bother me anymore ( I may have just got used to it or was more engaged with the characters). This book made me raise a lot of questions: Is silence the best way to convey a message for someone who dont listen? Could you ever make a point to someone who does not want to listen but just hear ? How could you keep hope when there is none. When no course of your actions could have an impact in your life what do you do? PS: 1.Was reading it listening to Oum Kalthoum. 2. The end killed me, it was very cleverly done. 3. I struggle a bit with the style so still gave it a 4 for the content and its power.

A cautionary tale about keeping the memory, so it wont disappear and fall prey to the rapacious cleansing of the past and future

When you read the title, The Book of Disappearance, it could easily be an apocryphal book from the Bible or the Torah. It could be the closing one, the one that follows the Book of Genesis, Exodus, or Lamentations. And if we translate the biblical into reality, it also poses the following question: What if? What if all the Palestinians who live in modern-day Israel, as well as the West Bank and Gaza, were to disappear? Without explanation. Out of the blue. From one day to the next. All four million of them? As the Palestinians are the indispensable fabric of society, how would it feel to lose essential workers, neighbors, people one passes every day without noticing — people whose presence is only appreciated once they are gone? How would Israelis react to such a situation? With relief? Suspicion? By blaming the Palestinians, as always, for causing the chaos? What would they do with what’s left behind? By analyzing this hypothetical — though to what extent hypothetical? — situation, Ibtisam Azem takes the opportunity to paint a picture of modern-day society composed of Palestinians and Israelis, while also uncovering the building blocks of the past: the bloody and unfathomable events that led to the creation of the nation. Through different perspectives and points of view, the author shows how the inhumane treatment of the “other” makes understanding, let alone any kind of solution, difficult if not impossible. The book invites the reader to reflect, to despair, to fume, to ask questions. I’d like to say it also invites the reader to hope, but I’m not sure about that. It’s a book to share, to talk about, to return to.

A haunting imagination of all the Palestinians that reside in Israel disappear overnight. The country falls into a chaos. People feel scared, anxious, confused, betrayed and joyful. The book starts with Arab Alaa's tender memories of his grandmother and her Jaffa, followed by a collection of different groups of people's daily lives. As Ariel, Alaa's neighbour and friend, a liberal Zionist and journalist attempts to unpack the mystery, he unlocks the hidden memories and secrets buried within Alaa and the history of the Arabs and the cities before and after Nakba. For me, there might be too many characters and backstories in the beginning. It loses the direct connection with the main characters a bit. Terrifying and absurd responses and thought processes of the occupiers presented. An urgent read for current time of injustice and violence.

the book was published in 2014!!!!!!!!! I really enjoyed reading it as it 12 years later still feels so relevant - was of course crying at the end of the book but can definitely recommend even though the flow of text was sometimes a little slow... loved the narrative of the grandma and for the fact its a dystopian novel were kinda living it right now......

A book like no other. I thought Alaa's chapters were absolutely beautiful. Ariel's chapters were less compelling, often difficult to read. But how could they not be?

Set at the birth of South Africa in the late 1700s this is the story of Coenraad de Buys; a brigand and survivor, a rapist and a wedded family man with numerous wives and children, a colonist and yet a fugitive, but above all, a revolutionary and a hero. He is a larger than life character, even at seven feet tall, and very much the centre of this epic tale, pushing those interact with him to bit parts - perpetually followed as he rides by packs of wild dogs. Its part novel, part historical account, with any gaps in official documentation filled with Buys’s vividly imagined daily life. Reflected in the story is the violence of a country in which life was gruesome, lawless, bestial and short. There’s a fairly detailed history lesson also, especially if (like me) you’ve never covered this in school. Consequently it’s a lot to take, and rarely an easy read, as fascinating as the narrative is as Buys’s life unfolds. It’s 450+ pages are chronologically split into four parts; in retrospect it would have been more appreciated if read as two books of 220 odd pages each.

It says a lot about American cultural dominance that I’m more familiar with characters from the American colonial frontier (Wyatt Earp, Davy Crockett) than with South Africa’s own Coenraad de Buys. Red Dog is the fictionalised-but-accurate story of Buys, a legendary frontiersman and outlaw of the Cape Colony in the late 1700s and early 1800s. He was a remarkable character - unpleasant, violent, but fascinating. He moves between the Cape frontier and the areas to the east and north of it, making war, raiding cattle, hunting and trading ivory, taking wives, killing indiscriminately, leading insurrections against the colony. He is reputed to have fathered more than 300 children by various women; none of them white (I’m always up for historical accounts that disprove the nasty racial puritanism that came to define South Africa in the 20th century). Red Dog traces Buys’ whole life from his birth in the Langkloof to his death on the Limpopo and tells it in a poetic, epic way. Through Buys’s story the reader gets to experience the anarchy and violence and cruelty of life at the frontier and during the Mfecane. It is a hard book, very “masculine” and not the kind of thing I’d normally read, but I found it gripping and illuminating and powerfully written.

Probably deserves a better rating than that because the writing was excellent but I grew weary of the story a little more than half way in. It’s brutal and you can’t read it without conjuring up a 100 things that grew out of it and stories like it that shape the world today. The hero wasn’t so much, and his crusade was selfish and tiresome. That he existed in history is not fascinating, it’s commonplace. Again, beautifully written and a history I knew little about, but I have read it and I feel like I got smacked around a bit. Good writing can do that, but I don’t have to like it.

Very well researched, insightful and extremely well written book. Unfortunately I found it at least 1/3 too long! Halfway though I started getting restless. Nevertheless, it shed light on the real people at the frontiers Of the Cape in the late 1700’s, which ignited the spark in me to read more about this period. I will follow up on your suggestions, Margit!

A wild and brutal tale of a South African legend. A gritty epic with unfathomable characters who lead you on a merry dance through the end of the 18th century

Deserving Winner of the 2024 International Booker Prize Shortlisted for the 2024 Warwick Prize for Women In Translation Longlisted for the 2024 National Translation Award in Prose. Longlisted for the Oxford-Weidenfeld Prize While he was living with Katharina in the strange apartment he took a lot of trouble fitting her out, her, Katharina. Provided her with everything that made him feel at home. Bach, Beethoven, Brecht, Busch, Chopin, Eisler, Giotto, Goya, Grunewald, Hacks, Kafka, Lenin, Thomas Mann, Marx, Mozart, Neher, Steinberg, Verdi, Robert Walser. In alphabetical order. Order is the fear of disorder. A kind of fear. His too. Was he just looking for a more attractive mirror for himself in her young flesh? In his solitude, someone who can answer back to him? Or did he really share all that out of love? She was the cause of his banishment. Love, love, love, he says to himself, all at once the word seems quite empty. That line “provided her with everything that made him feel at home” (my emphasis) is for me key to Kairos, Michael Hoffman’s translation of Jenny Erpenbeck’s 4th novel, an intense and fascinating character study of a psychologically manipulative relationship, infused with the Greek epics and literary and cultural references as per the catalogue of names, and a revealing and balanced insight into life in the DDR either side of German reunification (looking beyond the “Eberswalder frankfurters and Meissen porcelain” which is how the western side saw the country), one where allegories can be drawn but not always directly. The novel’s framing device has Katharina, now living in the US, learning of the death of her former lover, from many years earlier, Hans, and then receiving his archives of their relationship: Kairos, the god of fortunate moments, is supposed to have a lock of hair on his forehead, which is the only way of grasping hold of him. Because once the god has slipped past on his winged feet, the back of his head is sleek and hairless, nowhere to grab hold of. Was it a fortunate moment, then, when she, just nineteen, first met Hans? One day in early November, she sits down on the floor and prepares herself to sift—sheet by sheet, folder by folder—through the contents of the first box, then the second. It's so much detritus. The oldest items date back to '86, the latest are from '92. There are letters and carbons of letters, scribbled notes, shopping lists, desk diaries, photo prints and negatives, postcards, collages, a few news-paper clippings. A sugar cube (from the Kranzler Cafe) disintegrates in her fingers. Pressed flower petals slip out from between pages, passport photographs stay pinned to pieces of paper, there's a twist of hair in a matchbox. She has a suitcase of her own, full of letters, carbons, and souvenirs, "flat product" for the most part, as the archivists like to say. Her own diaries and journals. The next day she climbs up the library steps and takes it down from the top shelf, it's incredibly dusty in-side and out. A long time ago, the papers in his boxes and those in her suitcase were speaking to each other. Now they're both speak-ing to time. A suitcase like that, cardboard boxes like that, full of middles and endings and beginnings, buried under decades' worth of dust; pages that were written to deceive alongside other pages that were striving for truth; things itemized, other things passed over, all lying together higgledy-piggledy; the contradictions and the denials, silent fury and mute adoration together in one envelope, in one folder; what is forgotten just as creased and yellowed as what, dimly or distinctly, one still remembers. While her hands pick up dust from the old folders, Katharine remembers how her father used to make guest appearances at childhood birthdays as a magician. He would throw a whole pack of playing cards up in the air, and still manage to pick out the one that she or one of of the other children had chosen. The story, then takes us back to the DDR in July 1986. Katharina is a 19 year old student, with a desire to work on theater, and Hans a married 53 year old writer and novelist. He is 10 years older than her father but that their calendar birth years add up to 100 they see as a sign that their relationship is destined. They meet by chance on a bus, an exchanged glance leads to a passionate and long-lasting affair. The narration is in the present tense and also switches between the perspectives and thoughts of the two protagonists mid-scene: From now on, he thinks, the responsibility for their existence is entirely hers. He has to protect himself from himself. Maybe she's a monster? She thinks, he wants to prepare me for difficult times ahead. He wants to protect me. Protect me from myself, and so he gives me the power of decision over us. He thinks, as long as she wants us, it won't be wrong. She thinks, if he leaves everything to me, then he'll see what love means. He thinks, she won't understand what she's agreed to until much later. And she, he's putting himself in my hands. All these things are thought on this evening, and all together they make up a many-faceted truth. They tell the waiter: It looks like our friend has let us down. He pays, pockets his spectacle case and his cigarettes, make of Duet, her jacket is hanging up in the cloakroom next to his summer coat, the two sets of material are rubbing shoulders, getting acquainted. Holy Binity, he says, and points to the arrangement, before the cloakroom attendant hands them the items over the counter, and he holds the jacket up for the girl to slip into. This is the second item from their common vocabulary. Hans, as per the opening quote, from day 1 of their relationship tried to mould Katharina in his own cultural image. The novel however hinges around one incident in the middle of their story, when she has a brief fling with a fellow theatre worker of her own age, and Hans turns up his gaslighting to the maximum, including sending her cassette tapes denouncing her betrayal and asking her to condemn herself in response to his accusations. Hans is manipulative, hypocritical, jealous, sadistic (an element he introduces to their sex life without asking for consent), intellectually arrogant and fanatical. A former Hitler Youth, his father a professor at the Nazified Pozen university (by constraint Katharina’s grandfather, of a similar generation, fought for the anti- fascists in Spain), Hans moved from the West to the DDR in part as redemption for his past, and now seems equally a believer in the ideology of the state even as it literally crumbles around him: “what’s at issue here aren’t reforms that will abolish socialism, but reforms that will make it possible again”, reads a petition he signs (echoes of Christa’s Wolf’s opposition to reunification). Although the extrapriation of the real-life Wolf Biermann (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolf_...) in the mid 1970s leaves him disillusioned with the political leadership. The third quarter of the novel can drag a little, and stretch the reader’s credibility as to how much Katharina can put up with from Hans, but the same might be said of the dying days of the Soviet Union and its puppet states. And the novel becomes more socio-political and less personal as its timeline crosses 1989, showing how the East German regime and way of life simply vanished overnight, absorbed into the West. Fascinatingly one could view Hans’s treatment of Katharina as both an analogy for the East’s treatment of its own people, but also of the post-reunification treatment by the West of society in the East. The poster for the play Lohndrücker (the Scab) by Heiner Müller, which features in the novel, itself based on Duelo a garrotazos (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fight... ) by Goya. Impressive and a strong International Booker contender.

KAIROS begins in the late 1980s Berlin, a few years before the Wall came down. The more you know about Soviet/German/Cold War history, the more you’ll glean the allusive and metaphorical parallels and references between the torrid love affair at the center of the plot and the years leading up to the end of the split between East and West Germany. My understanding comes mostly from novels and a visit (and a few tours) of Berlin several years ago. I am no scholar, but I enjoyed a 4 star’s worth. So don’t consider my review any more than the cyber-paper it is written on! Nineteen-year-old high-spirited Katharina meets fifty-something Hans at a tram stop; they both fall deeply and madly for each other. Katharina is still in the midst of her artistic studies and Hans, a novelist, is married with a son, and a serial philanderer. His possession of Katharina is so complete that there were times that I could barely breathe. They cross the line into toxic. Both have their own feelings of guilt, including their complicated sense of allegiance to their country. The prose is lyrical, often poetic, and moving. “Does the East, which so far has been her element, cease to exist the moment she can no longer see it?... Or is this gray station endowed with the power to hold two different sorts of time, two competing presents, two everyday realities, one serving as the other’s netherworld? But then where is she, when she stands on the borderline? It is called no-man’s-land because someone wandering in it no longer has any idea who he is?” I actually started reading this book just hours before it was announced as the International Booker Prize winner!!! Kudos to translator Michael Hofmann for a seamless translation.

In late-DDR Berlin, a 19-year old art student, Katharina falls for Hans, an older man perfectly at home in the world of culture. Their relationships grows, small rituals are created which soon turn into the language in which they profess their love: letters, cassette tapes and rules at the table. Along the way the power shifts: they both become entangled in their relationship, questioning the validity of it but separation is not possible. Set against the DDR, Erpenbeck keeps politics mostly outside the window, yet the gray DDR air and atmosphere seeps in through every crack. The city almost feels romantic at times, a tram for 10 pfennig or a glass of sekt for 25 but the romance is a thin layer on top of the dreary everyday life. Erpenbeck makes use of various objects to tell the story of the changing relationship. Music plays a big part, lots of cassetes and grammophones, the older Hans represented by his love for classical music, the younger Katharine represented by more modern music such as Queen. She tracks, sometimes with painful precision, the shift from the "I" to the "we". When "we" takes over, everything sounds safe and respectable, but rigid. When the "I" takes over, doubt and private truth returns. This is a quiet and delicate novel. Erpenbeck writes the way how memory feels: we don't remember everything exactly as it happened, but our memory serves us with images, feelings and objects. She uses letters and props to make the emotional arguments andf when the tone turns cool, she uses an almost voice-over style of narration, when the characters need cover. Is this a perfect novel? If you want a straight, plot-heavy book this story can feel fragmentary. For me that’s the point. Kairos is about how people compose a life together and then recompose it in writing. The atmosphere is unforgettable and the themes don't shout but do bite. Read in Dutch

This book, and my hopes for it, both began with much optimism. Why a love that has to be kept secret can make a person so much happier than one that can be talked about is something she wishes she could understand... Perhaps because a secret is not expended on the present, but keeps its full force for the future. Or is it something to do with the potential for destruction that one suddenly has? And destruction there was. As the characters destroyed themselves on each other, and the East German state collapsed around them, I was left devastated and decimated, too. There were many other resonant themes to this book besides love and destruction (or pleasure and pain): coming-of-age, history's impact on identity, the influence of art on culture and values, the inevitability of change and a future outside of anyone's control. But there was also a powerfully written despair that left me feeling wretched. Is it called no-man's-land because someone wandering around in it no longer has any idea who he is?

Overall it definitely wasn't a bad book, it leaves me quite disappointed though, especially in my anticipation of the advertised overlap in the romantic breakup and a political country collapse. These two threads of narrative do not really interweave organically, they're more like juxtaposed next to each other. Never was a fan of romance stories and drama, hence those (significant) parts left me rolling my eyes and sighing in irritation. To me the political part of the story is just too small to keep me engaged and it merely accelerated towards the end of the book, there's practically no bigger insight into the GDR social relations and how different are those on the emotional and intellectual levels to those in the West. On the other hand the disintegration of a relationship and abusive and toxic aftermath of infidelity is imo portrayed pretty well, with a strong hint of obsession and exactly some unhealthy inquisitive tactics levied onto the cheater. Overall 4-/3+.

How did I get stuck painting here, in a building on Via Gemito, owned by the railroad? Shortlisted for the ALTA Italian Prose in Translation Award Shortlisted for the Oxford-Weidenfeld Prize Longlisted for the 2024 International Booker Prize The House on Via Gemito (2023) is Oonagh Stransky's translation of Domenico Starnone's Via Gemito (2000). This was, I believe, his 10th novel but the one that made his reputation, winning the 2001 Strega Prize and still regarded now as his masterpiece, the ur-text, as an article in Reading in Translation's 2021 special on the author has it. But we've had to wait 23 years, and are indebted to Stransky, to be able to access this impressively crafted father-son character study in English. The first part of the novel, The Peacock, opens with the narrator Mimì recalling a dispute with his father, Federì, over their respective memories of the level of violence displayed in their family home: When my father told me he hit my mother only once in twenty-three years of marriage, I didn’t even bother replying. A long time had passed since I had challenged any of his stories, with their fabricated events, dates, and details. When I was a boy, I always saw him as a liar and his lies embarrassed me, as if they were my own. Now, as an adult, it didn’t even seem to me like he was lying. He truly believed his words could recreate facts according to his desires or regrets. Federì came from a humble background, learned to box at a young age, and was employed on the railroads, working his way up to station master. But his real calling was as an artist, with talents which is his view outweighed the opportunities he was given, weighed down by his father's lack of appreciation of his talents, and by his wife, Rusinè, and her family, taking out his frustrations on Rusinè. Mimì’s account centres on one small but memorable incident for him, in 1948 and when he was a young boy, and, while his father shouted at his mother blaming her for his latest misfortune, was sent to retrieve his cigarettes, finding, to his surprise, a peacock in his parents’ bedroom painting the room with as many colours as my father used to leave on his palette in the dining room. But as his recollection of those moments edges forward his thoughts move back and forth in time, largely recalling his father’s life story, or rather the self-narrative that Federì had constructed: Even when I was young, I didn't always pay careful attention to him, of this I am certain. Even when I was most entranced or frightened, my mind somehow emptied out, and my thoughts traveled elsewhere. Its hard to say exactly why it happened. Maybe his talkative manner and invasive presence bothered me. Maybe I suspected that there'd eventually be a flaw in the fabric of his stories and soon enough they'd all fall apart, humiliating both him and me. Maybe I confusedly perceived that, behind my enthusiasm for how carefully connected the events of his life were, even at their most critical junctures, there lurked the bitterness of a person who had been betrayed, who had grown cruel because they had refused to accept the betrayal, and who consequently was always only a short distance away from exacting the worst kind of revenge. Mimì and Federì are diminutives for Domenico and Federico respectively and the story, although the author rejects the auto-fiction terms, has its roots in Starnone’s history. Via Gemito is a novel, that is, it’s neither an autobiography nor a biography. I brought it to life by taking a pinch of reality (real names, real places, and events that really happened) and then using my imagination to dig deep, exactly like I have done with my other books. To make it clear, in general I work with sources – data from memory or anecdotes – which on their own, scrutinized with a historian’s rigor, would not take even half a page. But when an obsession animates them and the imagination augments them, they become a long uninterrupted story. The front cover of the novel is a reproduction of the 1953 painting Operai che pranzano (I bevitori) [Workers having lunch (The drinkers)] by Federico Starnone, the author’s father, and the second part “The Boy Pouring Water” focuses on the story behind this work. There’s a story behind The Drinkers that I’ve never told anyone. It has to do with my father’s artistic vocation, my mother’s illness, an artless flow of water, and an arm that was at first too short and later too long. Even now, as I begin to write about it, I feel an ease come over me. Federico Starnone's painting was not included on the original 2020 edition of the novel, which featured a Albrecht Dürer work instead, only appearing on a 20th anniversary edition of the work. Having access to it, as we also do now in the English edition, certainly enhances one's appreciation of the novel, although the cover only reproduces part of the work - a wider picture is below: As with the fetching cigarettes/peacock incident, the narrative thread of the second part is the story of Mimì sitting for Federì's sketches for this painting - Mimì the model for the boy pouring the water. While he does so his father tells him, and he tells us, the story of his frustrated artistic career, and while Federì's violent and self-centred nature remains, it becomes more understandable when we see the way his career is hindered by his origins. Although as Mimì comments while attempting to pose as perfectly as he can: I have decided to hold the pose so well and with such rigor that my father can't possibly complain. I want to see if he'll calm down, if he'll finally stop unloading all his blame on us for getting in the way of his art. [...] I want my father to obtain everything he desires so that even if De Stefano becomes more famous than he, even if Lippi is chosen to do another portrait of Stalin, even if Lezoche wins the Mancini prize and he does not, he has no reason to blame me, and I can legitimately wonder, as I may have been wanting to do ever since I saw the peacock in the bedroom with its entire train, if the time hasn't come, cazzo, for him to assume his responsibilities. ( 'Cazzo' a Neopolitan slang obsecenity - untranslated Neopolitan slang a feature of the English novel) The last section 'The Dancer', features the father's death, but is centred on an incident in Mimì's youth when he found himself attracted to a young woman, but became the unwilling recipient of his father's crude tips on seduction. An interesting feature here is the contrast between Mimi's own memories - where he often admits the sequence of events can't work, or he is unsure what happened when - versus his father's confident reconstruction of his own narrative and life story (even incidents as an infant), albeit a reconstruction that often changes over time (did he spend the war learning painting in occupied France or fighting in Stalingrad for example). Impressive.

Beautiful writing, although sometimes repetitive and quite a slow burn. There were moments when I felt there was too much telling, too little showing. But it does describe some profound and complicated relationships with the core figure of the father, a narcissistic mitomaniac (which makes most stories unreliable. And you realize how ironic it is to look for reliability in fiction, even autofiction). Federí (the father) is annoying right until the end, when you realize his lies are a survival skill, just like his son turning his eyes away, turning his ears off so as not to see and hear the abuse, the suffering inflicted on his mother. The problem is that closing his eyes makes him miss the loving moments as well. And then there's Naples, in all its colours, smells, people, sounds and dialect, so vividly described. My second book by Starnone and for sure not the last one. 3.5

That was quite an experience. Starnone writes a work of fiction about the man his father was (we can assume it is autobiographical since his father's name was Federico and he painted an artwork titled 'The Drinkers' which is in part featured on the cover). So it is also about his own boyhood, however the character of the father overshadows the boy, his wife, his wife's family, in fact anyone in proximity to him. This is because he considers himself superior. According to himself. He makes it one of his main purposes in life to remind everyone around him of that fact. He can not be taken down or made to think he is anything less than how he perceives himself. The man's son, the author, will walk the streets of Naples, using these streets - which he tells us, he never ever walked with his father - to navigate numerous anecdotes about the way his father lived his life, the things he said (mostly insults about everyone else), the things he did (working for the railroad as a clerk, beating his wife, painting artworks) and his opinions about various matters. Federi is passionate about art and believes he possesses great artistic talent, but the art world is full of shit people who nominate their friends for prizes, then their friends create prizes and nominate those friends, therefore keeping him out of these circles. He blames everyone for his lack of success. Beginning with his own father who refused to educate him, in fact his parents abandoned him at a young age and sent him to live with his grandmother. He becomes a working class man, who sees the most beautiful woman who he takes for a wife, raises four sons and a daughter and spends his time at home painting. The book is in three sections. The first section The Peacock introduces the character and is the part of the book where you might abandon, because it isn't yet clear why it can benefit any reader to be subject to this psychological demonstration of one of the most extreme versions of the societal system of domination at work. The patriarchy thrives under this system, asRiane Eisler shows in her work The Chalice and the Blade: Our History, Our Future and Nurturing Our Humanity: How Domination and Partnership Shape Our Brains, Lives, and Future Much of the source material is inspired by journals his father kept, which trigger memories and dates of events he participated in and the artworks themselves are a kind of journal, a record of themese in his life. Part Two 'The Boy Pouring Water' is the most compelling and significant section, it documents the process of creating the largest, most significant art work he would do 'The Drinkers' one that the son would pose for, as would other members of the family and the local fruit and vegetable seller. The anxiety the young son would feel when he realises that there is a problem in the image, between the character holding out the glass and where he is pouring from will cause contortions of magnitude in him, to try and avoid the disaster he sees coming. His father never sees it and we think for a moment that the drama has been averted, alas no - disaster at the height of pleasure. So why do we want to read a novel about an egomaniac? And one that was originally published just over 20 years ago (it won the Premio Strega Prize in 2001 and was longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2024, having recently been translated into English for the first time). It is both a psychological example of the effect a man with no empathy and worse, a need to belittle, insult and induce fear in people can have on a family and it is set against a backdrop of the city of Naples post WWII, a place where allegiances often changed, depending on how they treated people. It is the historical context and the journey of a working class man trying to break into the establishment of artists, who despite his unruly personality, perseveres and participates as much as is possible for someone who won't allow himself to be intimidated. Everything is a struggle, he will fight to the end. Art 'wasn't fun, it was war'. In the final part 'The Dancer' the humiliation of the son comes full circle as he enters adolescence and tries to impress a girl Nunzia and his father gives him terrible advice about what to do with women. As if things couldn't get any worse, we learn that young girl has been abused by an Uncle and the son lies waiting for his fathers verdict. The book ends with a scene that makes the reader pause to reflect on how reliable the narrator is, like the father, he too has the ability to exaggerate, to curate anecdotes and perspective. To see the artwork of Federico Starnone visit https://starnone.it/gallery2/

Like My Brilliant Friend, but if it were My Brilliant (and Infuriating and Fascist) Father. By the man who was once thought to be the writer behind Elena Ferrante, The House on Via Gemito is a story of the son of a Neapolitan man who is convinced he should have been a famous artist, but never quite made it. His artistic passion has violent and frustrating effects on his family, and much of the novel explores the son’s conflicting feelings of admiration and hate, disbelief and awe, towards his father. The ultimate sadness of the book is the relative elusive nature of his mother, who, despite the narrator’s immense love and pride, can never stand as a character in her own right in a story that is ultimately about the narrator’s self-centred father. Overall, I really loved this. Starnone really gets to the heart of the father-son relationship, and I was underlining so many passages to return to. There are some delightful explorations of the blurred boundaries between truth, memory, fact and fiction, but I enjoyed the book most when the narrator is really digging into his emotions and relationship with his father. The painting on the cover is by Domenico Starnone’s own father and I’m intrigued how much of the narrator’s father is based on him… That’s not to say it didn’t have its weaknesses. There isn’t much motion in the present day which did cause some stodgy moments as I was reading, particularly at the start. Another thing that did cause me to feel frustrated (as the narrator too felt frustrated, so not necessarily a negative comment on the book) was that a lot of the narrative drive comes from the narrator’s father’s past and his version of events, which is difficult at times as the dad is prone to extensive exaggeration and outright lies, not to mention fascism, homophobia, racism and misogyny. I guess it was sometimes difficult to get through passages that lacked direction when the person leading it was pretty unlikeable and entirely unaware how unlikeable he was (even if the narrator is very aware). I enjoyed Oonagh Stransky’s decision to leave in a lot of the Neapolitan words, particularly where their cluster of consonants made clear their offensive meaning; in general, it was good to read yet another gritty (or gooey?) depiction of post-war Naples (always chasing that Elena Ferrante high). Interested to read more!

The House on Via Gemito was published in Italy 20 years ago and was the winner of the prestigious Strega literary prize. Domenico Starnone is a writer who manages to get under the skin of his characters highlighting their foibles and the impact on their own and others lives. There is no denying that this translated version from Oonagh Stransky is a powerful piece of writing digging into the under belly of Neapolitan life in the 40s and 50s.The story focuses on the world of Federí, an artist of profound talent but also an embittered man who continually feels victimised by the world around him that he believes often fails to see "his genius. Events are recounted by his son Mimi who is reflecting back upon his childhood whilst researching his father's life in the attempt to write a biography and also track down his infamous masterpiece "The Drinkers"; but from the start we discover the Federí is a man of contradictions and mood changing temperaments. At times the aggression that FederÍ displays towards his family - in particular his wife Rusinè- is harrowing and uncomfortable reading especially in a world where coercive control is more recognised and yet Starnone manages to capture the man's vulnerability as well especially when exploring his childhood and later years. In many ways this reads like a factual biography of a living renowned artist. Feelings toward Federí as a character fluctuate from disliking a bully and obnoxious and arrogant man to recognising a lost and perpetually bewildered man who was looked down upon by the art world especially as he wasn't part of an elite system. This is a powerful read- challenging, uncomfortable at times, fascinating and rich in prose. Longer than Starnone's other novels but certainly worth reading.

Starnone's book, longlisted for the International Booker Prize, is almost a biography of one man, Federi, the father of the narrator, Mimi. Federi is an artist, whose paintings are hung in galleries in Italy but who never receives the recognition he believes he deserves. For Federi is obsessed. Not just with his painting, but with himself. While we all see things through our own minds, to Federi, there is only one mind - his. Nothing outside it seems to exist and he spends his life decrying everything that dares to impede his progress through life. As he never makes enough money from his art, he has to work for the train company and despises the fact that his time and energies are so wasted. He loves his wife, Rucine, but hates it if she dares to spend her time even looking at other men for even one second. He hates her spending time on herself when she should be looking after him. He is a violent man and hits her often. She dies when he realises he has not spent enough time looking after her and she has an illness that he believes he should have foreseen. Mimi visits all the galleries in which his father's paintings hang as well as the offices that have acquired his works. They are never given the prestigious locations that Federi believes they should. This is a story that continuously screams about Federi and his self-centred approach to life and those around him, told in phases that move in time but not chronologically. The descriptions of Italy, his house in Via Gemito and Naples especially, allow the reader to believe you are actually with him, watching and sensing.

A novel analyzing a father-son relationship through almost 500 pages is not the thing I would normally pick up in a bookstore, but this one turned out to be a gem. My wife received this novel via an annual book subscription she has from a London bookshop, and I noted it had two attractive features for me - (a) it was Italian fiction, which I love, and (b) it was longlisted for the 2024 Booker International prize. The son is the narrator of this novel, recounting the story of his youth in 1950s Naples. His father is a railway worker who paints in his spare time, and fancies himself something of a misunderstood artistic genius. As the book progresses the father turns out to be not only a misogynist who frequently hits his wife, but also a misanthrope in general, for whom most of his colleagues and acquaintances are "shitheads" a term repeatedly attributed to the father throughout the novel. I found the father to a reprehensible character, for whom everyone else is wrong and he is the only one in the world who is right on any issue. It was only when I was halfway through the book that I realized that the father actually existed, he was a painter, and that this is an autobiographical novel. The painting on the book's cover is real, it was done by the author's father, and is on display in the city hall of Positano, south of Naples. The novel is a fascinating insight into life in working-class Italy after the second world war, with the treatment of women highlighted as being particularly abominable. This book is well worth a read. Though it can be slow at times, it is ultimately rewarding.

Winner of the 2021 International Booker His white belly is exposed, it rises and falls in jerks. The enemy from the other side gasps and screams, now in stark silence because of the gag I’ve cinched around his mouth. He screams in stark silence when I take all the insides of his belly and put them outside in the rain, in the wind, in the snow, or in the bright moonlight. If at this moment his blue eyes don’t dim forever, then I lie down next to him, I turn his face toward mine and I watch him die a little, then I slit his throat, cleanly, humanely. At night, all blood is black. All Blood is Black is translated by Anna Moschovakis from the original Frère d'âme by David Diop. The original won the Prix Goncourt des Lycéens. And in translation, the Italian won the Strega European Prize, an Italian equivalent of the International Booker (previous winners as authors include Annie Ernaux, Jenny Erpenbeck and Marcos Giralt Torrente) and in Dutch Europese Literatuurprijs (shared with Ali Smith's Spring). The novel is narrated by Alfa Ndiaye, a Wolof speaker from Senegal, one of the 'Tirailleurs Sénégalais' serving in the French army in the trenches of WW1. Alfa describes himself and his fellow recruits as "Chocolat soldiers" in contrast to the white "Toubab soldiers" (a Wolof term). He serves alongside his childhood friend Mademba Diop. The two are close companions but friendly rivals and, in a key incident before the narrative begins, Alfa teases Mademba about the relative merit of their family lines, causing his friend to be particularly courageous and foolhardy in the charge that follows: A Diop would not want it said of him that he is less courageous than a Ndiaye, and so the minute the sound of Captain Armand’s whistle commands him, he leaps up from his hole and screams like a savage. Same rivalry between the Keïtas and the Soumarés. Same thing between the Diallos and the Fayes, the Kanes and the Thiounes, the Dianés, the Kouroumas, the Bèyes, the Fakolis, the Salls, the Diengs, the Secks, the Kas, the Cissés, the Ndours, the Tourés, the Camaras, the Bas, the Falls, the Coulibalys, the Sonkhos, the Sys, the Cissokhos, the Dramés, the Traorés. They will all die without thinking because Captain Armand has said to them, “You, the Chocolats of black Africa, are naturally the bravest of the brave. France admires you and is grateful. The papers talk only of your exploits!” So they love to sprint onto the battlefield to be beautifully massacred while screaming like madmen, regulation rifle in the left hand and savage machete in the right. Mademba, as a result, is gutted by a white blue-eyed German soldier and suffers an extended, painful death in no man's land. Alfa stays with his friend but is unable or unwilling to meet his entreaties to end his suffering by delivering the coup de grâce. The after-effects of this tip Alfa over a psychological edge and he becomes something of a demon or a sorceror - a "dëmm" - feared even by his fellows. Each time there is a battle, he stays on in no man's land, abducts a blue-eyed enemy soldier, guts him as Mademba was gutted, then severs his hand as a trophy, with which he returns to the trenches. The first half of novel has Alfa thoughts circling around these events, including some oddly sexual imagery (he compares the trenches to a woman's sex) which make more sense as the novel progresses. In the second he is sent back behind the lines for rehabilitiation and psychological assessment, and we learn more of his and Mademba's former life, including the girl they both loved. Alfa's father is a farmer and elder from the village of Gandiol near Saint- Louis in Senegal, and his mother from a family of Fulfulde-speaking Fula migratory shepherds, who disappeared (feared abducted and sold into slavery) when she went in search of her family, another trigger for Alfa's internal anger. As his treatment progresses, Alfa's own self-identity starts to break-down, culminating in a disturbing incident involving his doctor's daughter. And when asked his name he responds: I AM THE SHADOW THAT DEVOURS ROCKS, mountains, forests, and rivers, the flesh of beasts and of men. I slice skin, I empty skulls and bodies. I cut off arms, legs, and hands. I smash bones and I suck out their marrow. But I am also the red moon that rises over the river, I am the evening air that rustles the tender acacia trees. I am the wasp and the flower. I am as much the wriggling fish as the still canoe, as much the net as the fisherman. I am the prisoner and his guard. I am the tree and the seed that grew into it. I am father and son. I am assassin and judge. I am the sowing and the harvest. I am mother and daughter. I am night and day. I am fire and the wood it devours. I am innocent and guilty. I am the beginning and the end. I am the creator and the destroyer. I am double. The novel's prose is visceral and powerful, for which credit is due to Anna Moschovakis. And, as the translator asked to convey the above speech, made in Wolof, to the French authorities reminds us: To translate is never simple. To translate is to betray at the borders, it’s to cheat, it’s to trade one sentence for another. To translate is one of the only human activities in which one is required to lie about the details to convey the truth at large. To translate is to risk understanding better than others that the truth about a word is not single, but double, even triple, quadruple, or quintuple. To translate is to distance oneself from God’s truth, which, as everyone knows or believes, is single. A powerful, short, novel that raises questions about the violent echoes of both war and colonialism. A strong shortlist contender. A review in Foreign Policy magazine that gives some interesting historical context including some fascinating propaganda photos: https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/11/21/... Another helpful review bringing out more aspects of the novel: https://www.wordswithoutborders.org/b...

In the cold of night, I took off my regulation trench coat and my shirt. I slid my shirt onto your body and tied the sleeves against your stomach, a very, very tight double knot that became stained with your black blood. I picked you up and brought you back to the trench. I held you in my arms like a child, my more-than-brother, my friend, and I walked and walked in the mud, in the crevices carved out by mortar shells, filled with blood-stained water, dispersing the rats that had left their burrows to feed on human flesh. And as I carried you in my arms, I began to think for myself, by asking for your forgiveness. I knew, I understood too late what I should have done when you asked me, eyes dry, the way one asks a favor of a childhood friend, like a debt owed, without ceremony, sweetly. Forgive me. In At Night All Blood is Black, French-Sengalese author David Diop centres the voice of those who fought mostly unremembered by history — the West African soldiers who served in the trenches under the command of their French colonisers during WWI. Following an inner monologue that circles and meanders and splinters unpredictably, Diop places us in the fractured mind of one such Sengalese soldier: twenty-year-old Alfa Ndiaye, who signed up with his more-than-brother best friend, Mademba Diop; and after having Mademba die in his arms in the opening scene of the book, Alfa enacts a type of ritualised revenge against his German enemies (after all, at night all blood is black) that will at first be commended by his comrades, and eventually feared. When Alfa is ultimately relieved of active duty in order to “rest”, his memories of a childhood in a small Sengalese village add texture and context to his horrific experience of war in the present. This is a short novel that packs a hefty punch, and despite finding the whole thing disturbing and bordering on distasteful, I think that Diop does a service to history by telling this story. The rumor spread. It spread, and as it spread it shed its clothes and, eventually, its shame. Well dressed at the beginning, well appointed at the beginning, well outfitted, well medaled, the brazen rumor ended up with her legs spread, her ass in the air. I didn’t notice it right away, I didn’t recognize the change, I didn’t know what she was plotting. Everyone had seen her but no one described her to me. I finally caught wind of the whispers and learned that my strangeness had been transformed into madness, and madness into witchcraft. Soldier sorcerer. Alfa and Mademba are in a mixed unit, with Chocolat and Toubab soldiers serving side by side; and although there’s no real overt racism between these brothers in arms, “Chocolat” seems to have derogatory overtones and a quick Google search tells me that the West African term “Toubab” (for a white European) is negatively associated with colonialism. When their Captain orders the African soldiers to attack like “savages” — with a rifle in one hand and a machete in the other as they cross the No Man’s Land in order to cause maximum fear in their German opponents — it is this play-acting at savagery that will lead to Mademba’s death. And when Alfa then decides to embrace the caricature of the savage — to be the Germans’ worst nightmare and marvel at the fantastical prejudices behind their frightened blue eyes — he will cross a line that makes his own side fear that he has become a dëmm; a devourer of souls. The longer Alfa plays this role, the looser his own grip on reality: I am the shadow that devours rocks, mountains, forests, and rivers, the flesh of beasts and of men. I slice skin, I empty skulls and bodies. I cut off arms, legs, and hands. I smash bones and I suck out their marrow. But I am also the red moon that rises over the river, I am the evening air that rustles the tender acacia trees. I am the wasp and the flower. I am as much the wriggling fish as the still canoe, as much the net as the fisherman. I am the prisoner and his guard. I am the tree and the seed that grew into it. I am father and son. I am assassin and judge. I am the sowing and the harvest. I am mother and daughter. I am night and day. I am fire and the wood it devours. I am innocent and guilty. I am the beginning and the end. I am the creator and the destroyer. I am double. This notion of doubling/mirroring/twinning is present throughout — the mixing of white and Black soldiers, Alfa and Mademba are physical and intellectual opposites, Alfa’s parents (his mother a beautiful young Fula migratory shepherd, his father an old sedentary peasant) are “exact opposites”, there is consensual and nonconsenual sex — and it’s unclear whether Alfa might be suffering from the kind of mental disorder that a French doctor can “wipe away”, or perhaps his condition is straight out of Sengalese mythology. Either way, shell-shocked or possessed, Alfa is left broken in a way particular to his experience as an African soldier serving in a unit commanded by his country’s colonial rulers. This was a tough read of war and a descent into madness — as gutting as a bayonet to the abdomen — and I was often turned off by the depiction and treatment of women characters, but there’s the ring of truth here and I applaud Diop for bringing this story forward.

I bought this book this week because it was on the longlist for the 2021 International Booker Prize. As I read the short description of each of the longlisted books, two or three grabbed me as being something that I would enjoy. This is one of two with African roots which I liked the sound of. The First World War has been the subject of so much historical as well as fictional writing, that it is hard to know if there is the chance to find something new and different to say. But here it is. Here are West African Senegalese soldiers serving in the trenches of northern Europe on behalf of France. Their possible reward, a French medal and perhaps citizenship of a country they know so little about. What I love about this book is the way that it mixes the familiar horrors of World War I trench warfare with the West African, the more mythical and mystical, as well as the Muslim. As much a clash of cultures as a clash of arms. What brings this alive and makes it shine is the authentic language, as we hear Alfa addressing Mademba. They have been brothers for years, but not their whole lives, but Mademba is always referred to as “my more-than-brother”. But now he is dead. Alfa has watched him die and worse has refused to cut his throat to spare him the misery of a slow agonising death with his guts hanging from his body. This death, and this refusal to do this last request fro his friend and brother, is the thing that pushes Alfa over the edge, tipping him into both revenge and madness at the same time. This is a visceral tale and the metaphors are in the same vein. The trenches are likened to women, the men spewing forth from their bellies through the narrow opening. “As soon as the trench birthed me…” is one of the phrases used. And at the same time we are conscious that these living men are pouring out to meet their deaths. After a day of watching his brother die, Alfa carries him back to the trench, wrapping his spilling guts in his own knotted shirt. From then on, Alfa lurks in No Man’s Land long after the attacks are over, each time bringing back the severed hand of an enemy clutching a rifle. To begin with, this behaviour gives him hero status, but as it goes on too long, as the collection grows toward seven severed hands, hero status turns to perceived madness and broken rules. This is how David Diop puts it: The chocolate soldiers began to whisper that I was a soldier sorcerer, a dëmm, a devourer of souls, and the white Toubab soldiers were starting to believe them. God’s truth, each thing carries its opposite within. Up to the third hand I was a war hero, beginning with the fourth I became a dangerous madman, a bloodthirsty savage. This image of the savage reoccurs many times. Captain Armand, who commands the Senegalese unit, says: “You, the Chocolates of black Africa, are naturally the bravest of the brave. France admires you and is grateful. The papers talk only of your exploits!” So they love to sprint onto the battlefield to be beautifully massacred while screaming like madmen, regulation rifle in the left hand and savage machete in the right. The irony is right there for us to spot – highly valued for their terrifying savagery, when they turn feral, there is no room for them on the front line. Alfa sees it for what it really is, he feels freed by Mademba’s death to think what he wants: The captain’s France needs for us to play the savage when it suits them. They need for us to be savage because the enemy is afraid of our machetes. And the powerful skill of the author is to show us the picture of the madness as it overtakes Alfa: The rumour spread. It spread, and as it spread it shed its clothes and, eventually, its shame. Well dressed at the beginning, well appointed at the beginning, well outfitted, well medalled, the brazen rumour ended up with her legs spread, her arse in the air. I didn’t notice it right away, I didn’t recognise the change, I didn’t know what she was plotting. Everyone had seen her but no-one described her to me. I finally caught wind of the whispers and learned that my strangeness had been transformed into madness, and madness into witchcraft. Soldier sorcerer. The imagery Diop uses conveys the ridiculousness about the way the war was conducted. Captain Armand sounds his whistle when the time comes to go over the top. What better signal to tell the enemy to start shooting. In the battle of the Somme the same thing would happen. The heavy bombardment would cease and the German troops would emerge from their deep underground bunkers to prepare to mow down the advancing troops. You might has well have phoned them with the news. You have to be mad to obey Captain Armand when he whistles for the attack, knowing there is almost no chance you’ll come back home alive. God’s truth, you’d have to be crazy to drag yourself screaming out of the belly of the earth. Because of his madness Alfa is sent for a month of recovery at ‘The Rear’, where he draws pictures for his doctor and tells us of his life in Senegal, before the war. A different kind of magic, rich with storytelling about his mother and the girl, Fary, who gave herself to him on the day before he left for the war. In this second half we see his life in West Africa, how Mademba became his ‘more-than-brother’ and the story of his mother. We slip into lyrical prose for a while, a respite from the horrors of war. I particularly loved the story of his mother, Penndo, the fourth and youngest wife of his aging father. Penndo had come to love my father because he was her exact opposite. He was as old as an immutable landscape, she was young like the changing sky. He was immobile as a baobab tree, she was the daughter of the wind. Sometimes opposites fascinate each other because of the differences between them. Penndo had come to love my father, the old man, because he contained all of the wisdom of the earth and of the reoccurring seasons. My father, the old man, idolised Penndo because she was what he was not: movement, joyous instability, novelty. That theme of opposites will turn up again and again in this little book, starting with the burly wrestler Alfa and the lean skinny Mademba whose body he carries back to the trench. We are constantly seeing opposites and differences. And finally, in a book that is after all a translation from the French by Anna Moschovakis, this wonderful paragraph: To translate is never simple. To translate is to betray at the borders, it is to cheat, it is to trade one sentence for another. To translate is one of the only human activities in which one is required to lie about the details to convey the truth at large. To translate is to risk understanding better than others that the truth about a word is not single, but double, even triple, quadruple or quintuple. To translate is to distance oneself from God’s truth, which as everyone knows or believes, is single.

Diop's At Night All Blood is Black (translated from the French by Anna Moschovakis) and shortlisted for the Booker 2021 International Fiction Prize is a brilliantly dark, heartbreaking and disturbing novel. Set during WWI, it tells the story of Alfa, a Senegalese soldier fighting for France (the “Chocolat” soldiers ), as he descends into the madness and maelstrom of the 'no-man's land' of trench warfare. The events unfold after Alfa's close fellow Senegalese childhood friend (closer than a brother), Mademba, dies horribly after being disemboweled during combat. This compact narrative conveys in brutally direct detail Alfa's savage search for both vengeance and a kind of personal redemption as he ritualistically visits this death upon enemy soldiers. The language throughout is hypnotically poetic, deploying powerful and resonant imagery. Just such a strong and distinct style here. All of this is also of course a searing indictment of French colonialism and exploitation. The novel also shifts registers into a rhythmically and tonally almost mythic difference when Diop represents Alfa's memories of his Senegalese childhood and young adult life with beautiful accounts of village life, his family and friends. The rendering of Alfa's voice is so distinctively clear and for me the particular strength of this work. "I am the shadow that devours rocks, mountains, forests, and rivers, the flesh of beasts and of men. I slice skin, I empty skulls and bodies. I cut off arms, legs and hands. I smash bones and I suck out their marrow. But I am also the red moon that rises over the river, I am the evening air that rustles the tender acacia trees. I am the wasp and the flower. I am as much the wriggling fish as the still canoe, as much the net as the fisherman. I am the prisoner and his guard. I am the tree and the seed that grew into it. I am father and son. I am assassin and judge. I am the sowing and the harvest. I am mother and daughter. I am night and day. I am fire and the wood it devours. I am innocent and guilty. I am the beginning and the end. I am the creator and the destroyer. I am double." There are stories within stories with this one; the deft artful layering of these stories is well done: "To be seen, the story hidden beneath the well-known story has to peek out a little bit. If the hidden story hides too well beneath the well-known story, it stays invisible. The hidden story has to be there without being there, it has to let itself be guessed at, the way a tight saffron-yellow dress lets the beautiful figure of a young girl be guessed at. It has to be transparent. When it's understood by those for whom it is intended, the story hidden beneath the well-known story can change the course of their lives, can push them to transform a diffuse desire into a concrete act. It can heal them from the sickness of hesitation, no matter the expectations of an ill-intentioned storyteller."

David Diop’s 2018 novel Frère d’âme achieved great acclaim in the French-speaking world. It has now been published by Pushkin Press with the title At Night All Blood is Black, in an English translation by Anna Moschovakis, earning itself a place on the longlist of International Booker Prize. At Night All Blood is Black is an addition to the body of novels dealing with the tragedy of the First World War. Considering that there are well-established classics set in the trenches of the Great War, any novelist wishing to convey the horror of the carnage is immediately faced with the challenge of how to bring something new to the subject. What is original about At Night All Night is Black is that it is written from the perspective of a Senegalese soldier in the French army. It is a (probably) lesser-known fact about the Great War that a total of around 200,000 so-called Senegalese Tirailleurs fought for France, 135,000 of whom in Europe, with 30,000 killed in action. Alfa Ndiaye, the narrator, is one of those soldiers, derogatorily referred to as “Chocolats” by their European leaders. The novel opens harrowingly, with Ndiaye remembering the last hours of agony spent with Mademba, his “more than brother”, eviscerated during an attack on an enemy trench. Mademba begs Alfa to end his agony by slitting his throat. Alfa feels that it would be wrong to do this, but later questions whether his moral compunctions were justified. This traumatic experience turns Alfa into a revenge-intent beast, who attacks enemy soldiers with his machete, cutting off their hand as a trophy. Through his increasingly wild yet daring actions, Alfa disturbingly accepts and perpetuates the very racist image of the “fear-inducing savage” which his colonial masters promote. In fact, his initial forays into the enemy lines are celebrated, but there comes a point when both his Senegalese comrades and the French start getting wary of Alfa. And this is hardly surprising because, although he does not admit it, Alfa is descending into madness, sucked into a vortex of grief and guilt, masked by a newly-found lust for brutality, violence and sex. The thoughts of the increasingly deranged soldier are conveyed in a stream-of-consciousness style. The deliberate repetition gives the novel the feel of a prose-poem, whilst also hinting at the Alfa’s obsessiveness. After the opening, visceral descriptions of life in the trenches, Alfa reminisces about the life he led back in Senegal – these nostalgic segments of the book have a strange beauty, imbued with a sense of the mythical and folkloric. Given the subject-matter, and its intense and graphic (although never gratuitous) violence, this novel is hardly what one consider “entertaining”, and some readers will probably prefer to stay away from it. However, it tells an important story in an original way, and, given its short length, does not outstay its welcome. 3.5* https://endsoftheword.blogspot.com/20...

Shortlisted for the 2020 International Booker. I have not read “Martin Fierro” the poem by José Hernández that Gabriela Cabezón Cámara uses as a base for her narrative. I do know that with this novel, the author gives China Iron the main character role instead of Fierro. In fact, two strong female characters steal pretty much the whole narrative. China is an orphan, her father having been killed by Fierro, who then proceeds to marry China and they have two sons before Fierro is conscripted and taken to the Indian frontier to fight with the army. Rather than be upset, China, who is only fourteen, and has been a slave all her life, is ecstatic. Free for the first time in her life she jumps on board a wagon with a Scotswoman named Elizabeth, who is hell bent on travelling to their estancia to rescue her husband. An “Estancia” is a South American farm or ranch. For the naïve China, this adventure is more of a cultural earthquake than shock. Everything is new for her, the land, the people, the wildlife and plants. While taking all this in, Liz educates China on the British Empire, and its relentless and insatiable drive for colonization. As the women travel along together, they become lovers, another chance for Liz to educate China and open her eyes which have seen so little. Another freedom awakened. Both women change dramatically throughout the novel and are completely different characters by the end of the book. Throughout the book, the author’s descriptive writing is so vivid, the landscape starts to feel like a painting. However, by the last third of the book, this descriptive writing became a little bit much for me, overpowering the narrative. At times it almost feels like a geographical expedition with the author describing the new cultures, plant life, and fauna in minute detail. The time period in which the novel is set, late nineteenth century, is a tumultuous time for the seemingly never-ending open plains, or pampas, of Argentina. With the English encroaching, their beastly steam engines advancing every day, to the gauchos, the Argentinians, and Indians, locked in never-ending internecine battles. I did enjoy reading how the Indians work in harmony with the land. How they adapt to flooding and live, to them at least, a somewhat utopic, nomadic lifestyle on the open pampas, juxtaposed against industrialisation and the claustrophobic smoggy miasma covered “modern” cities of Britain. An enjoyable read. 3.5 Stars.

I was in a dreamlike trance while reading this book. The author is an expert in painting a vivid and evocative description of the landscape which did a great job transporting me to 1872 Argentina. Although this is a short read, it packs a serious punch!

The Adventures of China Iron is loosely based on the epic Argentinian poem Martín Fierro . In the novel the main protagonist is his wife, who gets a fleeting mention in the original poem. That’s all I know about the source material. The book is essentially a road trip: China Iron, fed up of her live, just leaves her house for better pastures. Accompanied by the Scottish Liz and her dog (and later on a renegade gaucho joins them) China goes through a voyage of self-discovery. The first main theme is gender. Throughout the book China finds out that she is in love with Liz and sheds her femininity (the book’s cover is a clue there) and slowly looks more like a male, until the middle of the book when the transformation of her character is complete. China also explores her feelings of love for another woman and the amount of satisfaction she getting out of it. Freedom is another big theme. Although China breaks free from every sense of the word : from home and from her gender she comes across others who are not so lucky. This is seen in the third part of the novel when the four of the travellers come across an Indian tribe. Most of all I saw The Adventures of China Iron an unabashed love letter to Argentinian nature. There are many lush descriptions of the pampas and a lot of species of fauna and flora are mentioned. These passages do dominate the book and thanks to the fantastic translations we readers are able to experience every blade of grass and birdsong that accompanies this group. Along with the beautiful moments, there are ones that verge on the grotesque. In the afterword the translators describe the book as kaleidoscopic and that is apt. Although knowledge of the source material would enrich my reading of the novel, I cannot complain. The Adventures of China Iron is a thoroughly enjoyable romp of a novel.

What a lovely novel. There has been discussion on whether you should be familiar with José Hernández’s Martín Fierro (1872, 1879) before reading Gabriela Cabezón’s Cámara’s wild retelling, and I would say that The Adventures of China Iron is very much enjoyable without having read the original narrative poem. I read parts of the original in translation, found it quite different from China Iron, and put it aside just to enjoy the ride this retelling ultimately delivered. It is quite a diverse story in many ways: not only due to the ways it challenges heteronormativity in 1870s Argentina, but also in in terms of the structure. Part I is largely travel writing, depicting the pampa in sometimes poetic (and, in my opinion, gorgeous) detail, excuse the long quote: Because stillness is the natural state of the pampa; activity takes place mainly below ground, in that humus that is both substance and a continent, that is more womb than anything else. Argentina is a land of botanical adventure; the most important thing that happens there happens to the seed, it happens unseen and unheard, it happens in that primordial mud from which we come and to which we surely go: the seed down in the darkness is swollen with moisture, dodging cuys and vizcachas it sprouts a stem, it grows a green leaf, it pushes its way through the bowels of the earth, it emerges under orders from its two seed-leaves until it manages to get enough energy from the sun and water so it doesn’t need those leaves any more, and right then and there a cow appears and gobbles up that little blade of grass that was born in the ground and the cow reproduces, and slowly and surely multiplies into generations of animals that will end up, almost all of them, being slaughtered. Their blood will fall to the earth where the seeds lie, and their bones will make a delicious skeleton for the caranchos and worms, and their flesh will be refrigerated and shipped to Great Britain, another vein, bloody and frozen, in this network of veins that runs from all over the world to the voracious heart of the Empire. (54–55) Indeed, the influence of the British Empire with its culture and scientific progress is palpable throughout, predominantly through the protagonist’s Scottish companion Liz. The prose is often much simpler than in the provided quote and, in Part II, veers toward the grotesque during a stop at a fort where some characters partake in an orgy that is depicted in quite unnecessary detail for my personal preference. In Part III, however, we are back in the earth, the mud, the dust of the pampa, although what’s different is China Iron’s sexual awakening that we’ve followed through the story: ...and we just collapsed in the mud with Kauka alongside us and with her Catriel and then Rosa and Millaray and we wallowed around until we were as frog-like as the frogs that were jumping around us and we mated as frogs there in the mud that seemed like the beginning of the world and just as it was in the beginning we all loved each other without shame... (154–155) I’m not exactly sure why but the novel reminds me of Washington Black by Esi Edugyan, only more daring and in a clearly different context, yet they share the adventure-like structure set under the power of the Empire. It is wonderfully translated by Fiona Mackintosh and Iona Macintyre, surely not an easy job to capture e.g. the Argentinian flora in English.

More to come about this one, but in the end I liked it, with just a few reservations. This really is one of those novels where at first you're just like "where the hell is this going," before it turns into something you can sink your teeth into. Once I got into part two I actually found myself giggling out loud in spots. In the translators' note at the end, they view it as "kaleidoscopic," which is a great way to look at this book. They mention the different "turns" that are made as you read, including "existing nineteenth-century travel narratives of British expansion," "the world of nineteenth-century scientists and naturalists," as well as "a send-up of all this -- a playful pastiche queering Argentina's national myth of the noble virile gaucho." There is much, much more, of course, but that will have to wait until I'm feeling a bit more human. It shouldn't have taken this long to read but I did go back to the source, which is the original Hernandez poem and that's what caused the delay. It did help but if you're considering reading this one, it's not really necessary. as I said, more later.

Jon McGregor calls this book a ‘slow-motion thriller’ and it’s spot on. It is a French literary novel, with long, flowing sentences covering just one, terrible day in over 500 pages. It is set in an isolated hamlet of three houses in rural Central France, where farmer Patrice has taken the day off to prepare a surprise party for this pretty wife who turns 40. When he returns home from shopping he discovers his daughter and neighbour are being held hostage by three men he has never seen before. It takes some time to get used to the style and then some more to finish it, but it fits and pays off as the tension builds up. It felt like watching one of those tense French movies set in a room with conversation around the table. I also had to think of Saturday by Ian McEwan.

4.5 rounded up Excellent literary thriller. Propulsive writing, long winding sentences, drawn out plot that just raises the tension.

Really interesting as a study in how to build tension. Mauvignier's got a lot of great tricks. One of them even goes back to the first work of French literature, The Song of Roland, in the way the narrative stops time to go back and revisit a moment from another angle. I also liked how it withheld information and slowed down time, especially in the first half of the book, to really make the intrusion so much more threatening because you share the family's confusion, you don't know why they're here and you don't know what they're capable of. Though at times it got a little bit frustrating (huge chunks of text with an often annoying syntax and plenty of repetition), I really appreciated it and was on the edge of my seat for most of the novel. But who was sending Christine the letters? We never find out.

I enjoyed this tale of home invasion in a small French hamlet. The prose is beautiful and leisurely paced but it keeps you on edge. It's a fine example of psychological literary thriller done right. The characters are well-developed and everyone has a secret, which keeps you guessing until the end. Mauvignier masterfully builds tension and the novel gets progressively darker as you read. I would recommend this book to the fans of psychological suspense and literary fiction.

Jeeeesus that was an absolute wild ride. I thought I wasn’t going to like it at first because it’s unbelievably slow, but then when you get used to the pacing and things actually start to happen it is so tense! You are just dying to know what’s gonna happen next! There’s some films I could compare this too but I won’t because it will spoil a huge aspect of the book. What I like about this is that the main plot isn’t revealed on the blurb so when it starts happening it’s really exciting. The last 50 pages were amazing and I couldn’t put it down. I think a lot of people will struggle with the slow pacing and long complicated sentences in this one but it’s so worth the pay off. The end was really satisfying. I’d be happy for this one to be shortlisted actually because I went from not liking it to being obsessed. Keep going with this if you’re bored as the slow build up of tension is part of the experience.

Wow, this was spectacular and so close to being a five-star read for me. The Birthday Party by Laurent Mauvignier takes place in the fictional village of Le Bassée in rural France. It is a literary thriller centered around a home invasion. Patrice Bergogne has inherited his family farm. He lives there with his wife Marion and their daughter Ida. Their neighbor is an older woman, an artist named Christine. While planning for his emotionally unavailable wife's 40th birthday party, a series of strange events begins to happen. From menacing letters to mysterious cars rolling up to the property and nighttime stalkers kicking up a chain of scary events. So, my biggest complaint with this book is that it's very long for the genre. As I mentioned, this is a literary (heavy on the literary) thriller. I'm used to more of the Americanized thriller that can be read in one or two sittings. This is my first time reading a French thriller that isn't The Perfect Nanny by Leila Slimani. As I write this, I feel like I should have learned my lesson in the French-style thriller's pacing from that book to prepare me for this one. It's more character-based, which is fine. The tense and scary moments make the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. Home invasion is the subgenre of horror/thrillers that really scares me. I can sit through slashers and ghost stories, but when it comes to a home invasion or people stalking your home, I get chills. I liked the character study that was done here because it made me establish a relationship with the characters, which makes it stand out from American-style thrillers. The reason I knocked off a star for this is that while it is a page turner at points, it was difficult for me to want to continue with this book. It took me five days to get through this, which is not normal for me. I think it's a great fall/winter vacation read, or any time you have a chance to get away from the hustle and bustle of life and roommates. Unfortunately, I live with people, so I was not in a space to just let and fully immerse myself in the way I'd hope. I know if I were able to do that, I would have probably given this a perfect rating and appreciated the slowness.

This is incredibly slow placed. The slowest paced book I’ve ever read and I definitely think it could have been shortened a little bit, however, by the end you come to appreciate the time the book allowed you to sit with the characters and grow a deeper understanding of their personalities and connections. The basic premise is that of a husband organising a small birthday party for his wife that their daughter, neighbour, and wives colleagues are going to attend. For the rest you should go in completely blind. The blurb is vague for a reason and I think you’ll get most enjoyment out of it by not trying to delve any further before reading it.

What a wild ride. The first 80ish pages are a complete slog to get through — the writing style is very anxious and long-winded, which gets annoying quick when nothing is *actually* happening. But! The chaos sort of sneaks up on you until suddenly you’ve been reading it for hours and keep telling yourself “just one more chapter….” It’s very well-done. Very much if Funny Games was turned into a novelization, but still in a way that feels unique and surprising. My one complaint is that the length definitely could’ve been trimmed down

Don’t be put off by the long, winding, complicated sentences or by the multiple asides and digressions, and be assured that this initially slow-moving and seemingly directionless story ends up being the thriller it’s advertised as…the tension and suspense ultimately build and take over, and the end result is chilling. This isn’t an easy or quick read, and the ending leaves things a bit murky…but—if you have the patience—it’s definitely worth it.

A war photographer in Sri Lanka is murdered, and enters the afterlife: a tax office. He he has 7 moons until his soul leaves the earth forever, but can travel around to anywhere his name is uttered. We watch alongside our protagonist as the people who loved (and hated) him search and grieve, reflecting on his life's work. The pictures he took could change the world, and expose the brutalities of civil war forever. Captivatingly written with pathos and wit, it’s surreal and absurd but meticulously crafted, capturing conversations between the living and between the dead. Shehan Karunatilaka's real superpower, though, is his ability to produce the perfect metaphor; always idiosyncratic and relentlessly powerful. The novel is sometimes a tad repetitive, with slight pacing issues, and the second person tense is tricky, though I do think it adds to the urgency of the book. Overall I found it truly unflinching, chronicling the fragility of life and the horrifying realities of violence. 4.5/5 ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Shehan Karunatilaka writes with a storyteller's flair, a talent for telling an engaging tale that is matched by the ambition of his latest novel. Originally published in 2020 as Chats with the Dead, the story is set in Colombo and follows Maali Almeida, a recently deceased war photographer who navigates the afterlife while reckoning with the ghosts that haunt his country. For a place like Sri Lanka, the past is never really dead. The U.N. has estimated 80,000 to 100,000 deaths tied to the Sri Lankan civil war, a shockingly high number of those being civilians. But this is no dour trip to Hades. The afterlife is at times a rather comic affair, drawing on Buddhist, Hindu, and other beliefs - with a splash of bureaucratic red tape that keeps the hereafter grounded in the here and now. Karunatilaka makes the wise choice to tell the story in the second person, Maali seemingly telling the tale to himself with a mix of sardonic wit and streetwise sensibility. Despite the heaviness of the subject matter, Karunatilaka's touch is light. After an exposition heavy first chapter and a sloggy middle, this turns into a cracking page turner, picking up steam as it goes, a whodunit wrapped in a morality play wrapped in a fantastically told story with compelling characters.

In a Nutshell: A stark look at the political and social situation in late 1980s Sri Lanka but in a satirical-cum-fantastical packaging. After a long time, I found a Booker winner that focusses on plot progression as much as writing flourishes. Worth a read even for those wary of such award winners. (Just in case it’s still not clear, I am not a Booker winner fan.) Story Synopsis: 1990, Colombo. Maali Almeida – war photographer, gambler, and closet homosexual – is dead. He doesn’t know how he died, when or where he died, or even if someone killed him. After all, his job puts him into regular skirmishes with the various factions , both legal and illegal, governing over Sri Lanka. All Maali knows is that he is in some kind of divine administrative building that processes dead souls. He is told that he has seven moons to set his affairs in order before he needs to walk towards the light. There’s just one thing that Maali wants to do – lead the two people he loves most towards a hidden stash of controversial photographs. The story comes to us written in the second person, addressed to Maali. Where the book worked for me: 😍 The innovative storyline. The story is a potent mix of satire, historical fiction, dark humour and low fantasy, with an LGBTQ+ track as well. Yet it didn’t seem overpowering. Imagine political corruption and folklore fitting seamlessly into a single plot! The humour helps balance out the savagery. 😍 The attention to detail. Every character and every scene was sketched well. Terms that might be new to readers were explained in a quirky way without making them seem like newspaper articles or dictionary definitions. I found it easy to navigate through this book despite not being much aware of local Sri Lankan politics. (The book is politically intensive.) 😍 The authentic feel. Shehan Karunatilaka seems to know his country in and out, and it reflects in the writing. The ethos and the pathos of Sri Lanka both appear to have been captured well. (Only a Sri Lankan would be able to comment on the accuracy though.) 😍 The second person voice is the toughest one to get right. But the author handles this excellently. Not once did I feel like the voice was erroneously applied. Whether flashbacks or contemporary time, whether the divine office or ‘Down There’, the second person is put to effective use in making us feel like a part of the plot. Where the book could have worked better for me: 😔 With too many characters, a complicated plot, and convoluted timelines, the content felt a bit overwhelming. This problem wouldn’t have occurred if I were reading this instead of listening to it. 😔 The mystery about Maali’s cause of death and its subsequent resolution wasn’t satisfying. The revelation felt almost anti-climactic after all the build-up. 😔 A couple of the “moons” feel very repetitive. The middle section of the story drags a bit. The audiobook experience: The audiobook, clocking at 14 hrs 15 min, is narrated by Shivantha Wijesinha. He was brilliant! Despite the vast number of characters in the plot, he narrates them each with aplomb, using a distinctive speaking style based on the nationality of the characters. His way of saying “Aiyyoooo!” has percolated into my vocabulary as well. 😄 However, despite the fantastic narrator, I have a strong feeling that I would have liked this book even better had I read it. It would have been much easier to keep track of the moons and the people. Basically, like almost every Booker winner, this too is a character-oriented novel. If you don’t enjoy character-driven literary fiction, this won’t work for you. However, to lit-fic readers, this novel will come as a fresh voice offering a perspective on a topic not commonly seen in fiction. Recommended for sure but to a specific set of readers. 4 stars. My thanks to HighBridge Audio and NetGalley for the ALC of “The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida”. This review is voluntary and contains my honest opinion about the audiobook. Trigger: It is a book about a war photographer’s experiences. Think every trigger related to war, and you will find it in this book. It is not for the faint-hearted. ——————————————— Connect with me through: My Blog | The StoryGraph | Facebook | Twitter

Now Winner of the Booker Prize 2022 Shehan Karunatilaka is one of Sri Lanka's most important authors. His novel "The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida" is a metaphysical thriller that not only breaks down genre boundaries, but even blurs the lines between life and death: The book begins with the protagonist waking up and realizing that he is dead. He has seven days to find out who murdered him and why. What follows is a philosophical, often humorous story about the brutal civil war in Sri Lanka, a conflict the dead protagonist, a gay photographer, has documented. This ambitious winning title is thus a novel against forgetting, and in his acceptance speech Karunatilaka expressed the hope that Sri Lanka would learn from the country's stories. Told in the second person and dedicating one chapter to each of the seven moons (=days), we meet a plethora of characters and are confronted with tons of minor details and intricate mythological references - for me, this wasn't the most comfortable or fun read, but I applaud its ambition and imaginative force. Comparing this year's Booker to its counterpart, the German Book Prize (which was actually modeled after the Booker), it has to be noted that the Booker longlist was a lot more ambitious and way less concerned about marketability, so I hope the German Book Prize will step up its game next year.

"The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida" reads like a mixture of Salman Rushdie's "The Satanic Verses" and Will Self's "Where the Dead Live". It's Ian McEwan's "Nutshell" from the other side, Richard Flanagan's "Death of a Riverguide" moments later, Walpurgisnacht from "Faust" in limbo and Dante Alighieri's "Divine Comedy" in a pop universe. And yet it is not one of these books, because like the cosmos of ghosts, ghouls, pretas and demons, it is an independent echo in the echo chamber of literature. It is highly political, depicting above all the horrors of the civil war in Sri Lanka during the 1980s. Maali Almeida, the James Nachtwey of Sinhalese photographers, is in possession of photos that bear witness to a massacre. That is why he is what he is: a murdered man, restlessly searching for the answer to the question of who. In this respect, it is a whodunit in the world of ghosts, which, despite the serious subject matter, is also funny and snotty. It is about poker, talking leopards, a love story and the Mahakali. It is about friendship, corruption and the fragile balance of power between the powerful and the powerlessness of the poor. Karunatilaka gives the latter a voice, who in a tour de force séance whisper their version of the story from beyond the grave in a brightly colored mantra. One should listen.

4.5 Stars. The novel opens with our protagonist, Maali Almeida, dead and already in the afterlife. An afterlife that seems very much like a hospital waiting room. Everybody is shouting at the same woman situated behind a fibreglass counter. Not much of an afterlife. The trouble is Maali, when questioned by the woman for details cannot remember when or how he died. In life Maali, was a war photographer, he still has his camera, cracked lens and all, with him. The woman behind the counter yells to the queue, “YOU ALL HAVE SEVEN MOONS”. Seven moons before they can enter the light. He asks around, what is the light? The answer is elusive, nobody is certain, not even the woman behind the counter. It is then that he realizes he recognizes the woman. She is/was a university lecturer killed by Tamil extremists. Her death was in all the papers in 1989. She tells him that he needs to have his ears checked before he can “enter the light”. “Ears checked”? This must be a dream. Almeida is not the most likable of characters. He sleeps with just about anything that moves, he gambles away everything he earns, and ironically seeing as he wakes up in the afterlife, he is an atheist. But we never truly find out if there is a god or not. It is all about entering the light before your seven moons are up. Almeida has been covering the interminable civil war that has raged through Sri Lanka during the eighties. He is freelance and works for all sides in the conflagration. He has taken shots that if exposed will have him “disappeared” like so many others. Perhaps why he is in the afterlife waiting room? Underneath his bed he has a stash of photos that will bring down a major player in the war. It is these photos that he wants to expose to the public. So, he must figure out a way to do that before his seven moons are up. There are ways to do it. There are ways to “whisper” to the living, and ways to manipulate physical objects. Karunatilaka seems to have covered his bases with religion, with elements of Hinduism, Buddhism, Catholicism. Every soul is at liberty to fly around, ghosts travel by catching the wind, putting their affairs in order, before they must enter the light or stay trapped, marooned forever in this world. Some choose to stay becoming ghosts or ghouls. Unhappy souls choose to remain and whisper evil thoughts into people’s heads, the cause for much of our misery. It is a wonderful world that Karunatilika has created. Evil, sin, even sickness, caused by disillusioned, vengeful ghosts. Souls that do not want to move on but stay and cause as much pain and sickness to the living as they can. One thing I was deliriously happy to find out is that in this novel, animals have souls as well. And there is a hilarious passage where Almeida puts his foot in his mouth not realizing that two ghost dogs can talk. He is surprised when the female dog asks him for directions. When he tells them he didn’t realize that dogs could talk, she replies, “We didn’t know apes could hear. So condescending. If I am ever reborn human, I will swallow my umbilical”. In a book with such a dark, melancholic backdrop, this humour saturates the pages. Told in the second person each chapter is a moon, and the novel moves at a frantic pace, with each new moon bringing Maali closer to being trapped, forced to remain in this liminal world. The novel also brings to light the horrible acts of violence and genocide that took place during the civil war. The staggering number of innocents who lost their lives simply because of being on the wrong side that currently had the upper hand. It staggers the mind how cruel, how violent we can be to ourselves. If I am ever reborn human, I will swallow my umbilical as well.

Absolutely did not realize this was a Booker winner, just heard about it from a queer-lit friend. I really loved the first half, it manages to be so many different things at once. It's a sparkling read, vibrant and funny, voicey and smart, and it does all this while describing some of the worst possible atrocities of the Sri Lankan Civil War. The second half didn't work as well for me, but it's the kind of book where it's strengths are so notable, and where we have to stop and look around and say "How many books are being published by Sri Lankan authors right now?" and know that a month from now I won't remember that it dragged some but just how good it was at its best. I did audio for this and highly recommend. Great match of reader to material, and the material requires all kinds of accents as well as imagining the voices of demons.

Can understand why this won the booker prize such a lovely written book

The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida has an interesting premise: A photographer dies and has seven moons to discover how he died and to guide his friends on Earth to uncover a stack of photos which will expose the brutalities of his country. The setting: Sri Lanka during the civil war. a bloody and terrifying moment in history. With a plot like this Shehan Karunatilaka, shows the reader all the problems with Sri Lanka: Police corruption, religious intolerance, gang violence, the savagery of hired killers and all the state led betrayal. There is a lot of ugliness in this novel. Yet Seven Moons… is a creative one as well. The whole book is structured like a puzzle, so it may be confusing at first but then pieces fall together and the novel becomes a cohesive whole. In a way I was reminded of Arundhati Roy’s The God of Small Things, a novel with a non linear structure which criticised extreme actions of political groups. Because of this factor, Seven Moons appeal emerges with repeated readings. This year’s Booker Longlist contains several political novels but The Seven Moons of Malia Almeida is definitely the most creative one I’ve read so far.

Please do not get lost. If you haven’t had an Ear Check, don’t come here. Level Forty-Two will be open tomorrow. Come back then. Remember you have seven moons. You must reach The Light before the last one rises. I just barely squeaked in reading 2022’s winner of the Booker Prize (it took so long to be released here in Canada), and while I can see how the themes and writing in The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida would have appealed to the Booker judges (and especially as its mordant tone in describing horrific political reality appears in other novels on this year’s shortlist), it wasn’t my personal favourite of this year’s list, nor even my favourite novel exploring Sri Lanka’s long years of deadly internal conflict (for that see Michael Ondaatje’s Anil’s Ghost). It might be unfair to author Shehan Karunatilaka for me to rate this fine novel in comparison to others instead of solely on its own merits, but that was the experience its winning the Booker imposed on me, so all this is simply meant to explain why my reaction might be a bit muted. Seven Moons is undeniably good, probably not great, and four stars is a rounding up Lankans can’t queue. Unless you define a queue as an amorphous curve with multiple entry points. This appears to be a gathering point for those with questions about their death. There are multiple counters and irate customers clamour over grills to shout abuse at the few behind the bars. The afterlife is a tax office and everyone wants their rebate. The year is 1990 and Sri Lankan war photographer Maali Almeida learns he is dead when he finds himself in the chaos of a bureaucratic office with only one sandal on his feet and his camera lens cracked and filled with mud. From a Helper, he learns that he has seven moons (days) to make his way to the Light or risk being trapped in the In Between forever. As he finds his bearings, Maali is determined to get a message to his roommates — his best friend Jaki and her male cousin DD; Maali’s secret gay lover — and have them release a stash of photographs that would have been too dangerous for him to share while still alive. There’s a mystery/thriller vibe to this novel as Maali strains to remember the details that led to his death, and while the clock ticks down those seven moons, Maali finds himself torn between obeying the Helper who is encouraging him to go the the Light and a more nebulous creature who promises Maali revenge upon those who had hurt him in life if he remains in the In Between. Throughout, Maali’s remembered experiences as a photojournalist in the ‘80s — one who was willing to work for any of the alphabet soup of factions who paid the best in the moment — allows Karunatilaka to describe horrific scenes from Sri Lanka’s Civil War; and as Maali was a resident of the capital city, Colombo, Karunatilaka is able to immerse us in its unsettled setting of systemic corruption, income disparity, and rolling curfews. I appreciated that Maali’s afterlife is populated with unfamiliar-to-me creatures from Sri Lankan lore and Buddhist belief. All of this was good stuff. On the other hand, I didn’t much care for the character of Maali himself: A gambling addict with Mommy issues and a self-described “slut”, I didn’t understand all the scenes of him being pleasured by pretty young men while holding conversations with other guys (not only was this meant to be blatantly provocative at the height of the AIDS scare while Maali assured DD that he was always faithful while on assignments, but as Karunatilaka thanked his wife during his Booker acceptance speech, I don’t think this was based on lived experience, and it kind of shows). Others have noted that this feels too long, and at nearly 400 pages, it really does; there is much repetition, and I don’t think it needed the gambling or Maali’s dramatic family of origin subplots. And as for the satiric tone, the vibe is more resigned than humourous: • The Afterlife is as confusing as the Before Death, the In Between is as arbitrary as the Down There. So we make up stories because we’re afraid of the dark. • You hover above him, more like a mosquito than angel. The mosquitoes are said to have killed half of everyone who has ever lived. A lot more than angels have saved. • You used to make cracks about death when you considered it an unlikely event, as we all do, until we don’t. • Magic isn’t evil or good. Or black or white. It is like the universe, like every missing God. Powerful and supremely indifferent. • All stories are recycled and all stories are unfair. Many get luck, and many get misery. Many are born to homes with books, many grow up in the swamps of war. In the end, all becomes dust. All stories conclude with a fade to black. Ultimately, this does feel like an important read: any light shone on a government controlling and killing its own people deserves to be amplified and I appreciate the craft and passion that Karunatilaka brought to this project. I am happy to have squeaked this in before the end of the year, if only to end it contemplating the following: You think of dead lakes overflowing with corpses, of police stations where the rich lock up the poor, of palaces where those who follow orders torture those who refuse to. You think of distraught lovers, abandoned friends and absent parents. Of lapsed treaties and photographs that are seen and forgotten, regardless of the walls they hang on. How the world will go on without you and will forget you were even here. You think of the mother, the old man and the dog, of the things you did, or failed to do, for the ones you loved. You think about evil causes and about worthy ones. That the chances of violence ending violence are one in nothing, one in nada, one in squat.

This book is the winner of the Booker Prize of 2022. It may not please everyone, but I thought that it was very refreshing reading a book written in second person. I was captivated from the beginning. I found it quite entertaining, although a bit repetitive and with a pace that is not very consistent. As for the storyline (around heavy topics), well, it’s quite ingenious and with lots of characters (some very interesting). I should have tried the audiobook, just for the pronunciation of the names. I enjoyed the concept and the structure of the book as well as the author’s dry humour, but I do think that this book could have been shorter. I’m looking forward to reading his next work, as I really enjoyed his style. ebook: 112k words Hardcover: 386 pages

Great story. A bureaucratic afterlife and seven moons to decide your fate. A war photograph wakes up in the afterlife and is determined to find out who murdered him. Set in the 1990s during Sri Lanka’s ethnic cleansing, murder squads, torture and the threat of death depending on your race. The story’s supernatural viewpoint with ghosts, demons and dead people deciding or not deciding their next steps is original. A worthy Booker Prize winner.

In small town Solace, Ontario, in the 1970’s, eight-year-old Clara keeps a daily vigil at the window as she awaits her missing sister Rose’s return. Her neighbor, Mrs. Orchard (Elizabeth) is in the hospital and Clara’s job is to take care of her cat, Moses. Her suspicions are on high alert when she sees a man move into Elizabeth’s home. Told through three points of view, I listened to this on audio and was moved by the excellent performances by the three narrators. As Elizabeth lays in her hospital bed, she sifts through her memories, “talking” to her dead husband Charles about their life together and the little neighbor boy, Liam, who had a difficult home life, and was once such an important part of her life. She hints at a devastating event from the past, one she feels she must atone for before she dies. Clara’s spunk and curiosity was delightful, and even though her worries are more than she should bear at such a young age, she provides much needed lightness and humor to the story. The relationship she strikes up with Liam as she continues to care for Moses, was endearing. In the background, always, is the mystery of Rose's disappearance. Liam is now 36, newly divorced, and had just quit his accountant job in the big city. He’s unhappy, unmoored, and at a crossroads in his life when he arrives in Solace to live in the house Elizabeth left him. As he was so very young when he lived across the street from Elizabeth, he has little memory of her and is unsure why she left him her house. I loved watching his transformation as he embeds himself in the life of the town. I did want a bit more, which I suppose is better than wanting less. I wanted to hear from Liam’s mother, even if it had just been one chapter, and I wanted to know more about Rose. But those are minor complaints. The author beautifully captures small town life and the characters who inhabit the town. This is a quiet, lovely, and poignant look at lives that eventually intertwine in unexpected ways. Beautifully told, this is a deceptively simple story of flawed people (aren’t we all?) who live with regrets, and have known grief, but also joy. Solace is not just a town in Ontario, it’s what we can offer one another if we open our hearts. Highly recommended, this is a story that will touch your heart. * this was a buddy read with my friend Marialyce. Do check out her review and see what she thought!

I listened to the audio of “A Town Called Solace” by Mary Lawson. This is a slow burn of a story, culminating into a satisfying suspenseful drama. The narrators, Maggie Huculak, Tajja Isen, and Ian Lake are fantastic. The story is told from three-character points of view. Clara, 7 years old, is a dutiful cat sitter who begins the story staring out her front window, watching her neighbor, Mrs. Orchard’s, home. Clara’s teenage sister Rose has just ran away, and Clara feels that she needs to keep her vigilance of the neighbor’s home to assure Rose’s safe return. Mrs. Orchard, aka Elizabeth, is in the hospital with a heart condition. Her narrations are thoughts to her deceased husband. Through Elizabeth, we learn why she left her home to Liam, the third character. We also learn of Elizabeth’s past and what she feels she needed to atone for. Liam is a character who the reader can’t help but feel sympathetic towards. His life, especially his youthful homelife is tragic. He most certainly received the worst mother possible. He isn’t sure why Mrs. Orchard left him her home, but we find out through Elizabeth’s chapters. Clara is the needed innocent in the story, providing some humor through her earnest antics. She takes watching Mrs. Orchard’s home very seriously. Other minor characters add to the amusement, although quiet amusement. Lawson deftly adds those moments to what could have been a fully maudlin and tragic story. My heart broke many times for both Liam and Elizabeth. Clara provided hope. The characters in this story are realistic and human. At the beginning of the story, I thought it was an average read. In the middle, I was dumbstruck in my emotional attachment. At the end, I wanted to take another look and review how the story began and edged its way into my heart. Author Mary Lawson is noted for writing emotionally moving stories taking place in her beloved Canada. This is one that will stick with me. Another shout-out to Goodreads friend Holly who gave this a stellar review which drew my interest.

***3.5 Stars*** I love this author's novels...especially my favorite, Crow Lake, so maybe my expectations were set too high for this one. I still enjoyed this sentimental story and I look forward to any novel written by this wonderful author.

A nicely threaded plot, around three main characters. First there is Elizabeth, now resting on her hospital bed and making the inventory of her life, strengthened by the fond memories of her departed husband. Then there is Liam, whom was her neighbor kid when he was little, always coming around in search of kindness, attention and love, which he didn't receive from his own parents. In the present (which is in the 70's), he is now the neighbor of Clara, a 8 year old girl whose rebellious teenage sister just disappeared. This character driven book has little plot, and if anything it is escapism at its best. There is the quaint little village, with its charming inhabitants. And Liam who is at a crossroad in life after he left his wife and job, conveniently inherits some money and a house to start over. This syrupy affair is slightly counterbalanced by the disappearance of Rose, but just not enough to be honest. But what I really found interesting is the fact that all three are battling mental illness, and that has been rendered beautifully and on point. All in all, a very well written book with a nice flow and interesting characters, but just a little too simple and lacking depth and insights, hence the 4 stars.

A novel embracing a 1970‘s Northern Ontario isolated from the outside world, but not isolated enough. Lawson writes through three narrators, an 8-yr-old girl, her elderly neighbor on her hospital deathbed and a man, a stranger, who now owns the old woman's home. He is newly divorced, childless, has quit his job in Toronto, and is lost. If you like, 8-yr-old Clara opens it innocent and also a little dark, Liam seems to be searching for structure and simplicity, and proper Elizabeth stares at death in the face. And we go from there, reality tangling things. It's a nice book, clean and balanced. A little Kent Haruf-like, maybe. Lawson is, I think, looking for peace and restoration without denying reality…but she is still holding reality away at arm‘s length. It's for this reason that I‘m not sure it belongs on the 2021 Booker longlist, but I enjoyed it a lot...I snapped through it, really. ----------------------------------------------- 64. A Town Called Solace by Mary Lawson published: 2021 format: 292-page hardcover acquired: December 2 read: Dec 20-23 time reading: 6:32, 1.3 mpp rating: 3½ locations: northern Ontario about the author: born 1946 in Ontario, raised in Blackwell, Ontario. A distant a distant relative of L. M. Montgomery

Let’s set aside the fact that this is, of course not going to win the Booker. We all know that, and no one needs a review to work it out. This aside, I thought A Town Called Solace was a LOVELY read. I’d describe it as perfectly undemanding of its reader. It has some fairly well-worn ingredients- a small town setting where everyone knows everyone, but which has recently been shaken by crisis, multigenerational narrative voices, each protagonist flawed and struggling in isolation to grapple with the ills of the world around them. This is not a novel that is here to challenge you. Lots of reviews have compared it to Anne Tyler and I think that’s a fair comparison (although I personally enjoyed it more than Redhead by the Side of the Road). Sometimes we all need a book that’s not going to make us feel absolutely terrible about the state of the world, and this is a great option.

this book is quietly moving but full of real life moments, showcasing the hard decisions life throws at you and the joys it can take away from you. a book filled with love but also showing that sometimes parents aren’t the one able to give the love their child needs. but it’s not a sad story, more a realistic one. an 8 year old girls sister runs away and disappears and it’s clear something had as happened. and the little girl, who clearly shows atypical behaviors becomes obsessive with rituals and keeping everything the same. which is why, when instead of the nice old lady next door, who’s cat the girl is watching while the woman is in the hospital, a strange man moves into the house and starts moving things around. the man -who just inherited the house- isn’t very happy about finding out a little girl keeps coming in to his house either. and neither of them is happy about the death of the former owner of the house -and cat- and the changes that keep happening that neither of them asked for. i really liked the story. it’s honest and clear, but took me away into the middle of nowhere canada. i loved how the characters told their stories in their voices. and i liked how it all came to end. honestly the only thing i didn’t love was the sisters story because SPOILER i added the little thing where it’s supposed to let you open it if you want the spoilers but it’s not working? (view spoiler) SPOILERS OVER but does those things always need to be in stories? it’s not an exciting story or one that sweeps you up into adventure. it’s a life story, a story about parents and that not everyone needs to be a officially seen as one to feel responsible for a kid. and how sometimes children just need people outside their own homes to help them understand the world. it’s realistic and real life in the way that it’s not pretty or trying to sugarcoat how horrible people can be and how horrendous things can happen. but it’s also a sorry full of hope and love. i really enjoyed this quiet story.

Winner of the 2023 International Booker Prize Shortlisted for the EBRD Literature Prize 2023 This sudden groundswell of people who have lost their memories today is no coincidence . . . They are here to tell us something. And believe me, one day, very soon, the majority of people will start returning to the past of their own accord, they'll start "losing" their memories willingly. The time is coming when more and more people will want to hide in the cave of the past, to turn back. And not for happy reasons, by the way. We need to be ready with the bomb shelter of the past. Call it the time shelter, if you will. Time Shelter is Angela Rodel’s translation of Georgi Gospodinov’s Bulgarian original. The key premise of the novel has Gaustine a, somewhat mysterious, acquaintance of the narrator opening a dementia clinic in Zurich (*) where he replicates decades of the past, time shelters for those disorientated by the present. (* a nod to Switzerland’s odd timelessness due to its neutrality, and the presence of Dignitas, but in literary terms also to Mann’s Der Zauberberg, a key reference text) As Gaustine himself admits the premise isn’t totally original in artistic terms, only the effort dedicated to its realisation: What I've come up with isn't a show, Gaustine would always say, in any case it isn't The Truman Show, nor is it Good Bye Lenin!, nor Back to the Future. (Somewhere his critics had tried to slap these labels on him.) It's not recorded on video, it isn't broadcast, in fact there's no show at all. I'm not interested in maintaining some-body's illusion that socialism continues to exist, nor is there any time machine. There is no time machine except the human being. But in literary terms the novel is very different to those precedents. As with Physics of Sorrow from the same author and translator, this is far from a linear narrative. My review of that book (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) concluded; At it's best, the novel reminded me of Kundera at his most playful, with it’s philosophical but humorous musings on many topics, complete with sub-headings. However, if the novel is flawed, it is by comparison to Kundera, or indeed Gospodinov's own model, the Minotaur's labyrinth. Kundera's novels were famously intricately constructed, nary a word out of place, and so to was the labyrinth containing the Minotaur, the work of the master Daedalus. In contrast, at times it feels as if, in the Physics of Sorrow, Gospodinov has simply included anything of relevance (and sometimes irrelevance) that occurs to him, and the novel also wavers between autobiographical fictions and literary philosophy (and typically strongest when the latter). Here the discussion of the time shelters is non-linear, metaphysical (with various musings on the nature of memory and time) and literary. Other key references, beside Mann, include Auden’s poem September 1, 1939 (https://poets.org/poem/september-1-1939) and Woolf’s famous words from Mr Bennett and Mrs Brown: And now I will hazard a second assertion, which is more disputable perhaps, to the effect that on or about December 1910 human character changed. Another key text is Ernest Renan’s idea that a nation is a group of people who have agreed to jointly remember and forget the same things, and that a nation is a “daily referendum” on this topic - “L’existence d’une nation est (pardonnez-moi cette métaphore) un plébiscite de tous les jours”. [Although oddly, unless I missed it, the book itself doesn’t mention the daily referendum line] The novel develops this into a, Brexit inspired, series of referendums in the EU where the citizens of each country decide to which decade from the 20th century they would like the country to return. This is where the narrator has most fun, as it takes us through the deliberations and choices in each country (everyone else is horrified when the Swiss dabble with the 1940s as it was a rather lucrative time). But oddly this was for me also the novel at its weakest, as rather conventional and closer to Good Bye Lenin! territory. And in meta-fictional terms, Gaustine is a character who has recurred in the author’s work - indeed the opening section of the novel reproduces a short-story, Gaustine from the collection And Other Stories (http://www.percontra.net/archive/6gos...) and the narrator comments at the novel’s end. I can’t remember anymore whether I thought up Gaustine or he thought me up.. The author was asked about the character in an interview: Q: Something, or rather someone, else who has been consistently appearing throughout your books is Gaustine, both as a character and an alter ego. Could you tell me more about him and the process of inventing him? A: He appeared first in my poetry—most of the recurrent features in my work do. I wanted to begin a poem with an epigraph that I did not want to sign myself, so I had to make up a character and came up with Gaustine, a troubadour from the thirteenth century. The epigraph was three lines, something like: “The troubadour was created by the woman, I can say it again, she invented the inventor.” After the book was published, I remember running into my ancient Greek literature professor—the best in his field—in front of the National Library and he told me, almost guiltily, “All afternoon I’ve been searching for this Gaustine in the library archives and there are no sources whatsoever about him.” Which was a very nice compliment. So Gaustine just went ahead and found his way, appearing in different forms. (From https://www.musicandliterature.org/fe...) Overall, a far from perfect novel, and on balance I prefer Physics of Sorrow, but a fascinating one and one where the author does something rather different with his concept.

The past is looming ahead. However absurd this sounds it is the idea at the core of the novel which was the winner of the 2023 International Booker prize. When the future seems either too ominous or too inscrutable, the present too incoherent, we turn to the past, real or fabricated, as the only narrative with a discernible form and timeline. In its passing, time relentlessly deteriorates bodies, memories, individual conscience and collective ideologies; wouldn’t it be a relief to inhabit a corner of our memory (or imagination) that’s furnished with all the props and elements of an era that has already been lived and holds no surprises? If all this sounds vague it’s because Georgi Gospodinov’s metafiction is vague too. His ‘story’ is more a meditation on the concepts of forgetting and remembering, on time and how it is prolonged or shortened to accommodate our experiences or phantasies. It follows the tradition of Kundera’s novels, where the plot served as a pretext for his philosophical musings. I can only say for this book that while its fragmentary style and relative lack of plot and characters couldn’t hold my attention for long while reading it, its ideas have stayed with me days after finishing it. I suspect they will nag me for even longer but that’s not necessarily bad. On the contrary, they give me material to keep me busy in the future. For a lover of the past and the comfort its exploration provides, Gospodinov’s mental acrobatics were a reminder of the perils of nostalgia and how its allure can be disorienting too. A little more than a month away from the elections for the European Parliament in June 2024, in a European Union whose unified future is increasingly threatened by the rise of nationalistic parties in almost all its countries, that part of the plot that describes a European referendum where each country decides in which decade it wants to return, sounds like a warning against the glorification of the past. I found this to be an equally unsettling and satisfying read that leaves it up to the reader to find the answers to the questions it poses. Near the end, when all seems hopeless, the author is gracious enough to offer the “cool cave” of a library as a refuge filled with the security of fiction's time. His very own Time Shelter.

Now Winner of International Booker Prize 2023 - Congratulations. Shortlisted for International Booker Prize 2023 Even though it's not a 100% original idea (Goodbye Lenin, Midnight in Paris), Time Shelter squeezes every philosophical aspect of time travel. That's both good and bad. It starts with a genuine time travel concept that turns into a clinic of the past, created to help Alzheimer's patients live in the "remembered" time, an idea so appealing that ordinary people also want to live in the ideal "time." Gospodinov always has something "spiritual" to say, but there is no action. You feel trapped in a loop of stories, philosophical reflections on time or national histories. The ending hardly matters. The journey is what's important. For me, it was an interesting journey. It's hard not to see the merits when almost every page is written like this: "In all ancient epics, there is one strong enemy you battle ... in modern-day novels these monsters have disappeared, the heroes are gone, too. Where there are no monsters, there are no heroes, either. Monsters still do exist, however. There is one monster that stalks every one of us. Death, you'll say, yes, of course, death is his brother, but old age is the monster." But I believe that beyond its merits in discussing in a new way Alzheimer's disease and showing the traps of nostalgia, the message would have been more powerful if it wasn't told to you, but discovered by the reader in a more conventional story.

32nd book of 2023. In my hometown in the south of England there are a group of roads, by the seafront, named after poets and playwrights: Byron, Shelley, Wordsworth, Shakespeare, etc. My dad recently moved his mother into a dementia care home in this area, Tennyson Road. This is an action that has been long overdue. For years, it seemed, he felt like he would failing her by putting her in the home. As if accepting that he could not look after her himself, and worse yet, that his mother was no longer capable of looking after herself. She has come alive again. I used to take my grandmother out for coffee from her old flat and we’d sit in silences unless I found something to talk to her about. She’d listen with blank eyes, never really, listening. Certain things brought her from her dementia reverie: the Moonlight Sonata, mention of Russian novelists like Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky, Germany, where she was born. Now, down Tennyson Road, we sit in the internal coffee shop and she reacts to things I tell her. She puts her hand on my leg to congratulate me on getting a new job. She tells me how much she loves the flowers they have on each table, the birds that flit about outside the French doors. I feel she has been risen, ever so slightly, from the past again, where she threateningly sunk into. Time Shelter is a bizarre book from a Bulgarian novelist. It is a book about Alzheimer’s, but also about Europe, our shared history, and the nature of our continent and the relationship of the countries within it. It begins as a strange companion piece to the ideas of Mann’s The Magic Mountain, a book which Gospodinov mentions several times. (I recently saw Pedro Pascal, of all people, holding a copy of The Magic Mountain and exclaiming something like, “It’s a really long book all about death!”) In the Swiss mountains (naturally) Gaustine and the narrator, a Bulgarian writer, who felt like what a Sebald narrator is to Sebald (one and the same), create a Time Shelter, a place for patients of Alzheimer’s where in each room, each floor, they recreate the past. The 1960s room, the 1940s room. Slowly the empire expands. The narrator begins gathering pieces of the past, even scents and types of light, that are reminiscent of these eras. A few patients are spoken to. One difficult woman, they discover, who seems to be terrified of the bathroom and anything to do with it, was once in an extermination camp. They choose not to probe this personal past. What (in the beginning more so) impressed me most was the playful but literary tone Gospodinov achieves. The book is funny, despite its themes. Then you saw some book on my bed, that very first night, we had just gotten undressed, you turned around and said no way, I’ve got to go, I can’t sleep with someone who reads Coelho, and it was a completely different author, a Portuguese guy with a similar name… The rest of the novel moves more abstractedly. Countries begin to wonder what decade to go back to. The narrator returns to Bulgaria and witnesses re-enactments of the past. His country’s history is explored, as is Europe’s. The narrative begins to break down, the chapters get shorter. ‘The things I do not dare to do will transform into stories.’ This is a very popular prediction for the Man Booker International longlist that drops in two days. I am already hoping, too, to see it on the list. A very different read, one that made me laugh, reflect… The best books do these things.

This is an intriguing and thought-provoking book. What begins as an innovative therapy for people suffering from Alzheimer’s or dementia soon becomes much more. To help patients overcome or cope with their condition, artificial environments are created to transport them to their pasts. Soon, individuals, communities and even entire countries are invited to choose the decade of the past to which they wish to return until time is so confused that it becomes difficult – even impossible – to distinguish between the past, the present and the future.

This was timeless!

There's a lot of nostalgia going on in this one. Starting with clinics recreating specific decades from the past century to assist Alzheimer's patients and then extending to nationwide referendums across Europe (UK excluded of course) to determine which decides each nation would like to return to. Most enjoyable

Update: 8/14/2025 Original read date.. Feb 2025 Recently I have found myself thinking about this book whenever I see the title, and remembering details which I really don’t with many books. So I have upped my review to a solid 4! Two couples living on neighboring properties in a rural area in England… the middle of a very cold and snowy winter, in the early 60’s. The wives both pregnant and due almost around the same time. A real feeling of isolation out there … sounds real cozy, but really nothing much happens, til the very end and then there was a sudden ending. 3.5

Now Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 Winner of the Walter Scott Prize for Historical Fiction 2025 Miller's historical novel is set during the Big Freeze in the UK winter of 1962/1963 and uses the classical snow storm motif (The Snowstorm, The Dead, The Magic Mountain etc.) as a catalyst in a chamber play that illustrates the way a society was organized at a very specific time - it's a kind of fictional micro history, pointing at the repercussions of big world and national politics for average middle-class people in a small town. The story is structured around two married couples, both expecting a child. Doctor Eric cheats on his wife Irene with an older married woman, London-born Irene feels lonely and useless. Bill dropped out of Oxford to become a farmer, his wife Rita is haunted by her traumatic past. The plot is driven by the vividly drawn, psychologically complex characters: The liberating year of 1968 seems far, far away and societal expectations are a main theme, especially for the women who forge a friendship to find some mutual understanding, but also for Bill who is facing classist prejudices. WW II is still simmering beneath the surface, and mental illnesses (many of them trauma-induced) which were seen as taboo at the time are shaking up the lives of many characters. Around the middle of the text, a party on Boxing Day lets the overall feeling of intense social claustrophobia culminate in boozy festivities - this Christmas is more of a horror show than any Halloween. And talking about booze: These people drink a lot and all the time. Needless to say, the pain still mostly wins. The text frequently mentions the Arnolfini Portrait, an oil painting from 1434 that perfectly captures the vibe of a marriage as the society we encounter envisions it - and as our two couples dread it, which leads to different decisions for each of them. This is a highly successful historical social study and a somewhat classic Booker novel. I don't think this will really stick with me for a long time and I still feel that Seascraper should have won the prize, but I guess Miller has a solid chance now. You can listen to our podcast gang discuss the novel (in German) here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

The lines of Andrew Miller’s historical novel, “The Land in Winter,” fall as peacefully and lethally as snow. His plot — loneliness and adultery in a small English village — would seem to offer all the surprises of an old sweater, but in Miller’s exquisitely written book, every scene is hypnotic. If you’ve got British parents, they may remember the Big Freeze that swooped down after Christmas in 1962 and kept swaths of the country locked up for months. That ordeal serves as the blank white backdrop of Miller’s story, rendered with such fidelity to the times that “The Land in Winter” won the Walter Scott Prize for Historical Fiction. On Monday, it might win the Booker Prize, too. For longtime fans of Miller’s work, the only mystery is why his reputation remains so faint on this side of the Atlantic. Here is a writer of such intimate and insightful prose that stealing away with him for a few hours in another world feels closer to trespassing than reading. “The Land in Winter,” Miller’s 10th novel, opens in silence, the silence of nighttime, the silence of death. A young man soon to be released from a mental asylum has swallowed a fistful of pills, clipped a note to his tie and faded away on a laundry table. His motives will remain entirely unknowable, but Eric Parry, the doctor who prescribed him two months of sleeping pills, realizes with a start that he may have acted carelessly, even negligently. Thus begins the unraveling of Eric’s life, though not in the way he fears..... To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

'There's always a bloody price tag...Nobody gets away with anything'. As 1962 draws to a close in rural southwest England, we're introduced to four people who make up two neighbouring couples. As couples, they have two very different dynamics: one more traditional and the other trying to do things a bit differently, but as individuals, their lives are very divergent. Caught between a sense of duty and a desire for change, haloed by the ongoing impact of WW2, they all seem frustrated. When the New Year brings some of the coldest temperatures in recent history and the snow traps them, tolerance for their mundane ways begins to untether. Short-listed for a Booker prize. The prose in The Land in Winter is lovely and immersive, dropping into the early 60s in rural England - trapped between tradition and modernity. However, the story is most definitely literary fiction, and it will have you mulling over the characters, their lives, and choices, throughout. This is a slow read, yet you will still be intrigued by the characters and their lives. The book is best suited to readers who enjoy literary fiction and can cope with the thoughtful yet plodding pace. 'Time would level it out, for that, he had learned (quite recently), was what time did'.

Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize. 4.5 Stars! After Audition, and Endling it feels kind of nice to step back and read a more traditional form of novel from the Booker longlist. Ha, I never thought I would write that! I thoroughly enjoyed this novel but maybe not for the same reasons as others. This story is set in England, in the sixties, during the coldest winter in history. Living in a climate where I seldom see rain let alone sleet or snow, the blizzard and the snow fascinated me. It amazed me to almost feel the snow encroaching upon the character’s lives almost like an enemy army encircling an exhausted weakened foe. I have never experienced the sheer levels of cold which are brutally but beautifully written. The narrative centers around two couples with both women pregnant. Women who become friends despite their different background and lifestyle. I have never read Miller before, but I like his style. The way that he slowly reveals information about the characters. Ancillary characters waiting in the wings just outside the spotlight, waiting to advance the story. This works for the main characters as well. We slowly learn that one of the main characters, Rita, hears voices in her head. No spoilers but we very slowly find out just why she may have mental problems. Miller builds the atmosphere with each chapter as he slowly reveals more of the character’s history and past. Miller’s writing is exquisite. He manages to imbue a feeling of suspense and even panic to slices of everyday life. For me personally this book is very much about the writing and prose.

I read this month’s book club choice with both nostalgia and a sense of existential dread. It’s the opening chapter that sets the dis-ease and accompanies everything that follows. To a young child, that remarkable winter was a very different and quite subjective experience of beauty and wonder. And Miller captures this amidst the angst. It was also the winter that finally broke Sylvia Plath. Therein lies the novel’s core and exploration of the liminality between.

"The world was white and still, as if holding its breath." In the bitter winter of 1962, two neighboring couples in the English countryside begin an ordinary day that will quietly change their lives. Local doctor Eric Parry tends to his patients while his pregnant wife, Irene, drifts through their old house, sensing the widening gulf between them. Next door, Rita Simmons - also expecting - tries to settle into the rhythms of farm life with her husband Bill. When Irene and Rita meet across the frozen field that separates their homes, something begins to shift. As the snow deepens and blizzards cut the village off from the world, unspoken tensions surface and fragile marriages start to fracture under the weight of isolation, longing, and regret. Andrew Miller's "The Land in Winter" is a quietly devastating exploration of connection, loneliness, and the things left unsaid between those who share a life. His prose is spare yet luminous, the stark wintry landscape providing the perfect backdrop for the increased isolation of every character. The lingering trauma of war and the confines of domestic life echo beneath every page, building toward an ending that is both devastating and strangely beautiful. This is a slow, beguiling novel - one to savor rather than rush. I listened to the audiobook, read by the author himself, whose calm, deliberate narration complements the novel's stillness, though occasional scene transitions were harder to follow in audio form. A slow-moving, melancholic masterpiece: beautifully written, hauntingly atmospheric, and quietly powerful. Many thanks to Dreamscape Media for providing my with a copy of the audiobook via NetGalley in exchange for my honest review. The audiobook of "The Land in Winter" is slated to be released by Dreamscape Media on November 4, 2025.

I enjoyed this calm, melancholic and very atmospheric novel set in the 1960s in the English countryside - I can see it win the Booker this year (even though Flesh is my personal favourite of the shortlist). There are secrets and a lot of tension under the surface. Two couples live next door to each other, one husband is a doctor, the other trying his hand at farming. The wives are both pregnant and strike up a friendship. In the background the remnants of the war are still palpable. I listened to the audio read by the author and it took me quite some time to get used to his voice and style - ultimately it fit well though and I can see how it made a difference knowing the book better than any narrator could.

3.75 stars. The Land in Winter by Andrew Miller is a nuanced character study set during Britain’s Big Freeze of winter 1962-63. Shortlisted for The Booker Prize. Detailed, atmospheric and quietly suggestive of social change. Full reviewed linked below. https://youtu.be/vNaTI6w02a8?si=047FD...

3,5 I didn’t *not like* it but I didn’t love it, either. It’s a neat little story with some potential; I bet Kristin Hannah would have made a silly tearjerker out of it, so I’m kind of glad Miller hasn’t. *** Reread _in winter_ After rereading Joyce. And newspapers. And it finally made sense. (In my mind Rita made it.)

On a thematic level, I quite appreciate this novel. Using the remarkably harsh British winter of 1962-63, when cold and snow froze people in their homes and cut off the ability to move about and connect, as a naturalistic metaphor for the coldness and lack of connection that can exist in human relationality, is effective and done notably well here. In reviews I see this is in the greater part discussed in terms of the marriages of the two central couples, which is a sensible route to take, however for me the far more impactful way this theme is explored in the novel is in its treatment of post-Holocaust, post-WWII trauma (not to say this is overlooked, but more a question of primary/secondary focus). This moves the main interest of the novel for me away from the four main characters, who are of the younger generation that just “missed” the war, onto several of its minor characters. Most powerfully the character of Gabby, the medical partner of the younger Dr. Parry, who came to England from a vaguely noted Central European origin after the war. The best scene of the novel, a brilliant scene, is a dinner party hosted by the Parrys that concludes Part 1. At one point therein, Gabby attempts to connect with Bill, the Parrys’ neighboring novice farmer, whose father it is understood is also of the Yiddish speaking Jewish world that was erased from existence by the Nazis. Gabby aches to communicate with someone who has fellow feeling in an attempt to grapple with the impossible meaning of the Holocaust. But Bill’s father has been so “successful” in reinventing himself in England, in raising English children with no knowledge of his past language or religion or community, that Bill has no fellow feeling with which to respond to Gabby. He is cold, and they slide right by each other. It is heart wrenching. When Gabby began again - Häftling, Sonderkommando, Judenlager - Bill, staring at an abandoned cheese stick on the tablecloth, began to withdraw his heart. He did it as subtly as he could, an inching back that might, with luck, seem no movement at all, a disappearing act, a party trick (the corpse wrapped in a rug carried out under the very noses of the police), but all was glass to Gabby Miklos and he sensed it at once. He looked up and smiled at Bill. It was, after all, not his first failure. “Your wife is dancing,” he said. It is the older and minor characters then - Gabby; Bill’s father; Bill’s father-in-law Martin who is in an asylum for trying to burn everything down including his own house and who later is revealed to have been one the British soldiers who liberated Bergen-Belsen concentration camp (just a bit symbolic of a mania there, eh) - who mostly captured my imagination. I would have liked more of them in the text!

i'll be thinking about this one awhile

An old-school, classic, Booker banger. I was thrilled that the Booker list brought us a character study like this, to be completely immersed in. This is the kind of novel you might find on any of the Booker lists for the last several decades. If you're looking for a strong plot, you won't find it here. What you will find, is carefully drawn central characters, and an interesting, thoughtful study of the complexity of marriages. It's full of interesting observations about interactions across social classes, and various forms of physical and social isolation. It is a story to get lost in, and although I found it a smidge slow at times, it was an immersive read.

Now Shortlisted for The Booker prize 2025. Longlisted for The Booker Prize 2025. Early 1960s rural England. Two neighbouring families snowed in. They are from completely different social and class but the two women become friends through a shared bond. They are both pregnant and due around the same time. I could actually feel the sense of how cold it was in the descriptive writing style as I was in Scotland then and my primary school was only minutes away at the end of our street. No buses could get up to our area so we were stranded with only the local small grocery shop. We had a coal fire back then and the delivery lorry couldn’t make it up the hill so our coal was running very low. Mum had a paraffin heater in the kitchen so we used that a lot and little electric fan heater in my bedroom. Ice was inside the windows every morning and you could see your breath when you popped your head out from under a mountain of blankets! The book tended to start very slow but then I began to want to read more. And the opening chapter has a bit of a tragedy but you don’t really find out what actually happened in the asylum? Or did I miss something again? Still I was curious to read on. One husband is a doctor the other an unsuccessful dairy farmer. Both just trying to make a home. There are many twists and turns and I never expected the climax at the end. Is it worth The Booker? I’m not sure yet. Thank you to our daughter Kylie for giving me this hardback copy for my birthday xx

The Land in Winter is an incredibly atmospheric and subtle novel. It is set in the historical Big Freeze winter in 1963, and reminds me of the cyclical nature of these micro climate events that carries a foreboding feeling to it, namely the mini ice age in the 1600s (allegedly caused by witchcraft!). Some rmay argue this is a quiet book where not much happens; I digress! The Land in Winter is a study on solitude and companionship beautifully crafted, with vivid and detailed imagery that is equally powerful yet subtle. Martin is an asylum resident in Bristol. He has two daughters, but only the youngest bothers to visit. In an uneventful day, he notices Stephen, a institutionalised teen, seems quite dead. Dr Eric's secretary tells him the asylum asked for him to visit. Full review to come.

I feel there are a class of novels called Really Good Novels which are a pleasure to read, and.... and that's it, that's all actually, they're just novels that do really well what any great novel should do and make the reader think "gosh I'm so glad our civilization is still in a condition to produce such novels as this one right here." But maybe not anything more. The Land in Winter aspires and comes relatively close to being such a novel. It introduces us to four intriguing, realistic characters and a finely detailed place and time; as the tension and conflict builds, we gradually learn important things about them and their inner worlds that stir thoughts inside you, like: is that how it is in real life? Maybe in real life we slowly undiscover the people around us. And maybe sanity is just an accident. Anyhow, Andrew Miller is a talented writer in an understated register and I'm sure I'll be returning to his work someday. He pulls out terrific images and comparisons, like one in the prologue on the sensation of touching a corpse: The skin was not yet cold but cooler than the air around, like a knife in a drawer.

A lovely book full of graceful writing about the struggles of loneliness and despair, and the many ways in which we look for companionship and fulfillment.

everybody needs to read this book immediately. i don't want to talk about anything else. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... i began reading this book on a train, and as the trip progressed two contradictory feelings built in me until i felt almost frenzied. the first impulse, as i tore through the pages, was that seeing as it was the only book i had brought with me for a weekend i should pause and look out the window or listen to music for the rest of the journey, in order to preserve it. the second was to find some means to ensure that neither the ride nor the book ever ended. from the moment i picked this up, and in truth even before, i had a feeling about it. even if the second half wasn't quite as strong as the first, as i read it i found myself revisiting sentences and paragraphs and even pages again and again, that if my focus wasn’t absolute and even if it was that i needed to immediately reread it. bottom line: i’ve read this book once and yet i’ve read it many times. (thank you to the publisher for the arc)

Update : Now shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 The world would be a better place if every midlife crisis could be solved with a little bit of playacting that shows whether what is missing in our lives can live up to the fiction we created.

High concept, structurally complex literary fiction is so tricky. It tends to send readers in drastically different directions in response. And this will be one of those for sure. It's a book that deliberately makes the narrative more obscure, more confusing rather than offering the gradual increase in clarity we expect from a novel. I loved it. At one point, near the end of a novel, is a scene so baffling that I could have responded with anger and frustration. At this moment, as a reader, you simply must surrender to the book. You can no longer fight it, no longer try to impose your own expectations on it. You have to give up and say, "I have no idea what you are actually doing here, Katie Kitamura, and I think that is the point." Or at least, I did. Does that sound terrible? I suppose it does. I admit that I often enjoy novels that work as puzzles to be solved, and the idea of one that refuses any kind of clear solution can be a real frustration. But one of the things about my brain that works so hard and loves sussing things out is that it also loves to just stop and give up and let go for a little while. By refusing to be solved, this book just let me have an experience. And that is, ultimately, the thing I want most from a novel. At the heart of all of this is so much about art, about performance, about perception. Secrets and long relationships. The choices we make and the paths we never took. It is not that I think Kitamura wants to give us any particular theme or insight around these topics, instead she teases them out, lets us consider them, lets us see just how much we know and then takes it all away from you. Her prose, as always, is beautiful, spare, propulsive. It made me want to go back and reread INTIMACIES, which I enjoyed very much. And honestly I would not be surprised if I sit down with this one again to see what experience I have next time.

(3.5) Audition opens in a restaurant, where our narrator – a successful, well-established actress – is having dinner with a younger man. The nature of their relationship is ambiguous, but she’s convinced onlookers assume she’s paid him to be there (although in true Kitamura style, it’s not at all clear whether anyone is really thinking this. The line between perception and projection is smudged beyond recognition – something that’s spelled out when the narrator pulls up the memory of a time, years ago, when she was mistaken for an escort while dining with her father). We soon learn that the young man, Xavier, initially approached the actress with a misunderstanding about their connection to each other. This is (seemingly) quickly dispensed with; still, she doesn’t dismiss him outright, and he becomes a sort of avatar for existing anxieties around her career and life choices. The narrator is in the middle of rehearsals for a play, and much of her energy is focused on her inability to grasp a transformative scene. Then there’s a break in the novel in which she seems to nail it; she goes from frustration to enlightenment without us seeing anything of how she achieves that. Except that isn’t all that’s changed. Her family is mysteriously transformed. If Kitamura’s work might already be described as a fiction of overthinking, Audition takes her characters’ trademark maladaptive daydreaming to its not-so-logical conclusion. Lines blur between performance and reality, art and truth – between one’s real life and a what-could-have-been version of it spun out from a fleeting thought. So thick are the layers of meaning, so stark the gaps in any explanation offered, that it’s difficult to discern whether we are being presented with an elaborate roleplaying exercise, a deep-rooted delusion, a thought experiment or an alternate reality. No answer is forthcoming. The gaps are part of the architecture. And yet, for all its conceptual ambition, Audition fell a little flat for me. Maybe that was inevitable – I’ve been really impressed by the two Kitamura books I’ve read so far, and this one has been hyped as a breakthrough moment, a new peak. Expectations were, possibly, too high. I still think she’s a phenomenal stylist, and no one writes obsessive rumination quite like her, but the high concept here works against her usual strengths. Compared to A Separation and, especially, Intimacies, Audition feels thinner. Kitamura thrives on the friction between people, the way perception warps in relation to others; here, that interplay is transposed onto big, splashy themes rather than playing out a hundred little times in minor interactions. There’s plenty to chew on, as always with this author, but Audition left me hungry for something more substantial. Kitamura’s best work burrows deep into psychological ambiguity while still maintaining a strong sense of narrative momentum; here, the ambiguity feels untethered, the story fragmented to the point of weightlessness. That’s the point of course, and I did find it interesting to read something more postmodern from Kitamura – this makes a lot of sense as a direction for her work, and framing the story within a performance theme is really clever. I just found the core questions of the novel less appealing than the broader-ranging, yet more intimate, concerns of A Separation and Intimacies, both of which I’d recommend above this. I received an advance review copy of Audition from the publisher through Edelweiss.

All the world's a stage... The tension pulled me in to this a lot more than I was expecting. Audition is about the roles we play in relationships. We follow the perspective of the wife. She is an actress in a play, but she is also accepting the role of mother at home. Her husband becomes an actor and the line between performance and reality gets intertwined and blurred. What stands out to me the most is Katie Kitamura's clinical precision in crafting relationships, specifically the spaces between people which create the oddest and most lasting impressions. I think these subtle or nuanced clues in body-language often get overlooked in day-to-day life, or at least, they do not get analyzed to the level Kitamura achieves. I love how the author grabs details from the space that might normally be overlooked but is able to capture so much emotion and intrigue in small moments. I don't have much knowledge of theatre, but this novel screams theatre performance! . The characters take on precise movement as if they are on a stage. And there are brief moments that somehow get drawn out through relational tension. The writing at times did remind of some work by Susan Choi, who I adore, and I think is also very gifted at drawing out relational experiences in the space between characters. This litfic may not be for everyone but I recommend if you like Susan Choi, theatre, or really off-beat suspense. 4/5⭐️ tw: child loss

I had absolutely NO idea what to expect from this book. It was recommended by my aunty who loved it, so I was curious to see if it lived up to her hype… I found the reading of ‘Audition’ a rather curious experience 🧐 I felt like I was playing connect the dots; always a little confused by what was going on. That’s not to say I didn’t enjoy it. I very much appreciated the beautiful prose. It was quite a unique piece of work and for that I commend Kitamura 👏🏽 2 people meet for lunch in a Manhattan restaurant. 1 middle-aged woman 1 young man Who is he to her, and who is she to him? The nature of their relationship is ambiguous. Over the course of this short novel, the narrative slowly unravels yet no sure answer is forthcoming. In that way it is somewhat frustrating at times. However, there is a deliberate destruction of the storyline into two parts: Part 1 - we learn that the young man’s name is Xavier. He initially approached the woman due to a misunderstanding about their connection to one another. Then there is a shift, focusing on the actresses role in rehearsals. However, she never totally dismisses him; their relationship goes unspoken. The silence is what gets you thinking… Part 2 - from confusion to clarity. This part of the novel was much clearer. The same elements remain, yet completely reconfigured. The shift is mysterious, but welcome. I personally found part 2 much more enjoyable due to the emotional depth and sharpness of the narrative. The parts pull in completely different directions however, there is an ongoing theme throughout: questioning what these two people are to each other and our understanding of the different roles we play in each others lives - partner, parent, creator… And it was with this knowledge that I FINALLY began to understand the book as a whole: One woman. Two different lifetimes 🙌🏽 Overall, this was a rather fascinating story. By the end, we are still offered no clear or definitive explanation. Yet, despite the uncertainty there is a strong emotional tie to the protagonist throughout. Kitamura leaves us with 2 very different scenarios for the same set of characters. Unusual in structure and style but interesting nonetheless. ‘Here, it is possible to be two things at once. Not a splitting of personality or psyche, but the natural superimposition of one mind on top of another mind. In the space between them, a performance becomes possible.’ 🎭 3.5 🌟🌟🌟💫 (rounded up)

The writing was incredible - beautifully written and so taut with tension it felt like a thriller. But even as a reader who likes a challenge and ambiguity, I still struggled to really “get” this. I understood bits and pieces of the commentary, but untangling the events of the story is still escaping me. The exploration into motherhood and performance were thought provoking, but the commentary about race never went anywhere deep for me. I’m still scratching my head trying to understand the ending - I feel like you could offer me a dozen interpretations and all would seem equally reasonable. On one hand, I like that Kitamura makes the reader reflect and work a little, but on the other - it feels a bit meaningless to speculate when so much is left unknown. I’ll read her backlist eventually, but I need to process this for the next 6-12 business days.

Audition is a beautifully written and thought-provoking story with moments of tension and cerebral tautness. The story is centered around identity and focuses on who we are to family members. Audition is a fast and entertaining read that overall I enjoyed. I'll have to admit that I found myself A bit confused at several points but its one of those books where you have to keep reading to understand where the author is going. I think a lot of literary fiction readers will love this one however, Audition is very much a postmodern, metafiction, style of writing so if abstract storytelling is not for you, then I would pass on this one. Audition by Katie Kitamura was published on April 8 so it's available now. Many thanks to Riverhead books for the gifted copy!

Audition is a thinking reader’s book and at the core of it are questions: what happens when the self’s illusory nature is exposed, and one is no longer left with a reliable script or props? What if a family is if not a shared delusion, a mutual construction? Our narrator is a middle-age stage actress who has achieved fame and renown. As the book opens, she is in a restaurant with a young actor, Xavier, who looks erringly like her, right down to some of his tics and gestures. He, too, is an actor and believes he is her son, which is physically impossible. The actress is in the throes of a professional crisis: it is up to her to bridge the two halves of the play with a particularly challenging monologue that, she believes, is a failing of the playwright. To make matters more daunting, her husband, Tomas, is suspicious of Xavier because of his wife’s earlier affairs. Then we are plunged into Part II and everything is topsy turvy. The play has been successful. Xavier, it turns out, is their son, and he is now living with them, causing discord among the three “actors”, or family members. As a metaphor for the art of acting, the narrator ponders how it is possible to be two things at once – a natural superimposition of one mind on top of another mind. Maybe, she reflects, in the space between them, a performance becomes possible. As an admirer of Kitamura’s work, I have thrilled to her former books, A Separation, and Intimacies, both of which were also narrated by an unnamed woman. This one did not pull me in quite as much as the others. Perhaps it’s because the character, due the analytical structure and themes of the novel, becomes unknowable. The narrator reflects, “…the actual story, the reality of what was happening between us in that moment, was much less easily imagined.” Audition is a clever book, constructed with acrobatic prose, that focuses on the performances we relentlessly give on the stage of life. I very much admired what Kitamura was accomplishing. I just wish I loved it a little more.

going in completely blind was frankly hilarious because this was not at ALL what i expected it to be lmfaooo definitely the type of story where you have to surrender to the madness (which in this case i guess was surrendering to the structure). i honestly really enjoyed both parts, the writing is fantastic and while disorienting and jarring at points... idk the effect it had on me was refreshing! i can understand why people wouldnt jive with it though. opened up a new perspective on relationships to me and i love when authors can spur stuff like that but leave you without a clear ending. feels like i get to play around with it in my head for a while, very cool.

4.5 Incredibly compelling, and clever in so many ways that won't even hit you until you've reached the end and given it some thought. Audition is the story of an accomplished older actress meeting a young man for lunch in a Manhattan restaurant. You do not know what their relationship is to each other, or why they are meeting. This is really all I can tell you about the story without spoiling it... ***SPOILERS*** This is a novel of two parts, and whilst in the first part you think you have a grasp on what their relationship appears to be, the second half presents another reality. Which one is true? The novel clearly plays with the idea of us all having different parts to play in life, whether it be a mother, a parent, an actress, a writer, a father, a lover, a friend and so on... what happens if we become estranged from one of these parts of ourselves? Do we remember things differently from whatever really transpired in our lives? Do we forget our lines, and how to play the role handed to us? It's hard to know for sure exactly what Kitamura is doing, and whether the above is all that's at play. I often wondered if the protagonist had dementia (there is a section where she alludes to another actor needing his lines written everywhere around him due to dementia) and this is what caused her endless frustrations and somewhat brash behaviour. Then the final scene ends with her son Xavier giving her a play that he has written based on her. Is this what we've just read? Her monologue? It is one of those novels where more questions are raised than answers given, and I'm sure this will prove to make it a marmite book for the majority of readers. Was I completely satisfied? No. But I did hugely admire it, and I really couldn't put it down. It is in many ways a genius little book. It's my first time reading Kitamura, and although I did find her style quite cold, I think I'd be far too intrigued not to read more from her. Audition was one I was excited to read and keep going back to. And I'm dying to talk to anyone who has read it to compare thoughts!

i think i get it? but maybe i was never meant to?

Hmmm I’m not sure where to begin with this one. First and foremost the storytelling and writing is absolutely fantastic. The basic idea is that two people meet in a restaurant. One is our unnamed narrator who is old enough to be the young man’s mother. They both work together at the theater producing a play. Things begin to progress as we delve further into their relationship. This is one of those that I think is made more for readers way more smarter than me. The entire time I was wondering what was going on and the unease was palpable. Then it ended and I have no idea what happened. After it ended, I still felt unsettled after reading it. So obviously the writing was fabulous. As for a rating, I’m actually gonna give this 3.5 rounded up. There’s something to be said for a book that still has you thinking about it even though you have no idea why or what the heck happened. If you do by chance read it and understand what was going on please let me know

This elegantly written book kept me captivated until the end.

Audition is a tough book to talk about, because I truly believe the less you know the better, going in. Here is what I can divulge : a woman meets a younger man at a restaurant. She is an actress. We don’t know who he is, or the relationship between them— or, more importantly, why they are meeting. The book is split into two parts. I raced through the first part, due to the impressive writing, which kept my heart in my throat the whole time. In the second part, my jaw just unhinged and fell to the floor. Nobody could have pulled off this novel like Kitamura. Expertly written, insightful, and ultimately a very human story. Out next month—brace yourselves. Thank you, as always, to @riverheadbooks , for the review copy!

Slowly and unsurely I make my way through the Booker Prize Longlist... will I finish them all? Highly doubtful. But at least I add Audition to my 2-book repertoire! So far, Audition's my winner. 50p. in, a coworker asked what I was reading, and I said I didn't know. At that point, my knowledge comprised only of a one-sentence blurb on Booker Prize's Instagram (how literate of me), with author Kitamura describing, "a desire to write about the long process through which children must unnecessarily grow up to become strangers to their own parents." That was enough to catch my attention. But I couldn't remember when someone asked about it. The book follows an unnamed female actress, aged past an evolutionary prime some male podcaster would assume is scientifically viable. I bring that up only because main character did so herself, in a roundabout way. A small ingredient to this book is age, and as it goes with all parents, the years on your life influence how you interact with the world around you. As does it influence others' perceptions. Take the simple scene of a woman at dinner with a young man. It means something different when the woman is 20 versus 40. This young man posits that he is our narrator's son. Narrator entertains this relationship although she tells us (and him) it is impossible. What we encounter is a strange, even surreal, narrative shift between parts 1 and 2, where—and I'd rather not spoil those of you interested—the truth may not be too far from fiction. And guys. I found this particularly satisfying as the transition mirrored one in the fictional play our narrator starred in... a parallel! Ohhh. It's not wrong to say we got a bit meta there. But not too much! Just enough so the book didn't collapse in on itself. A healthy spoonful of meta. While I admire Kitamura's imagination, I kept wishing for this "son" perspective. Maybe it's because I'm a child, not a parent, that I feel this way. I'm sure the foggy mystery would be lost on all readership if she chose to follow a clearer character, clear like this "son," so here's where subjectivity comes in: the "mother" (our narrator's) perspective annoyed me. Just as Booker Prize's Instagram hinted, the child can become to a parent some unknown creature, but personal biases make me feel that this unknown state of the child is the fault of the parent. Why is the parent, the mom, our narrator, what have you, so abrasive to the possibility of a child's change? Maybe that it why you find him unknowable? I rolled my eyes. Is that a critique? No. But where else do I put these feelings? A bit that did intrigue me was the relationship between parents. Again, I'm trying hard not to spoil, so apologies if this seems convoluted. And another apology, but in advance, for bringing Instagram up again: a reel I saw ages ago suggested that parents must take opposing perspectives when raising their child, so as to represent all viewpoints, whether or not the two are convicted in one side or other. What an interesting dynamic... two opposing forces representing two opposing truths out of necessity, rather than belief. This exact dynamic I was lucky enough to see spring out of Audition, as well. But I will not put it in context. No spoilers, I'm so good. I keep trying to revert to authorial technique/style writing this review, but my mind is swept by theme! I think that's a good sign as any. To me, that means a book has done its job. Kitamura accomplished a foggy, unreliable narrative questioning parent/child roles in relation to our personhood. Solid. I can't put a finger down on why I'm rating this 4 rather than 5 stars... maybe it is the (very intentional) detatched tone that I find off-putting. I guess we can't all be purveyors of objectivity.

This Other Eden is a work of historical fiction which takes place on a small island off of the coast of Maine. In 1792, Benjamin Honey, a freed slave, and his wife decided to make their home on the island. The story begins with them and grows to include a lively assortment of their descendants and other "different" characters. They are exceedingly poor but largely self sufficient, managing to avoid most contact with the mainland (white) folks. Things shift with the coming (intrusion) of a retired schoolteacher/missionary. Though his intentions are good (setting up a school on the island) the results are disastrous. No longer invisible, the islanders become victims of the social intolerances and injustices carried out under the guise of the pseudo science of the eugenics movement of the early twentieth century. This Other Eden shines a light on a gut wrenching part of American history. It also serves as a cautionary tale. Poignant and well written, This Other Eden will appeal to lovers of historical fiction with substance. It would be a good book club selection. I received a drc from the publisher via NetGalley.

If you like hauntingly beautiful prose, This Other Eden by Paul Harding is a must read! Paul Harding won a Pulitzer Prize for his novel Tinkers, and the quality of his writing is beyond compare. I could pick almost any page and read a sentence that is mesmerizing and its style and rhythm. Here’s an example “He loved sculpting …most of all hands, through which he took special joy in expressing despair, support, betrayal, supplication, forgiveness, healing, benediction, blessing, revenge, comfort, and murder, hands raised high, hanging limp, clenched, slack, palms out, extended, turned in, retracted, bathing feet, supporting elbows, wiping tears, tightening nooses, drawing swords, jabbing vinegar sops, thrusting spears, caressing sleeping faces.” The whole book is written like this! For me, this moving novel was not as much about plot as it was a mood and a feeling. I listened to the audiobook and let my mind be carried along in the current of words. The narrator, Edoardo Ballerini, has a rich hypnotic voice and listening to him is bliss. The plot describes daily life in a small and racially integrated community living on a remote island off the coast of Maine. The government forces the residents to leave and institutionalizes some of them. A 15 year old named Ethan is a gifted artist and can pass for white, so he gets sent to live with a wealthy family. Paul Harding interrupts his narrative a lot to include sermons, art theory, philosophical musings, songs, Biblical imagery, and Shakespeare. At times as I was reading this, I grew impatient with the writing, even though it is a sublime, because I just wanted to find out what was actually going to happen to the characters next. Sometimes the multiple tangents were fascinating and sometimes they were frustrating. Thank you to NetGalley and RB Media for the audio ARC in exchange for my honest review. UPDATE 9/21/23 now shortlisted for the Booker Prize for 2023

This latest novel by Paul Harding is a moving story about the mixed race inhabitants of Apple Island, inspired by the true story of Malaga Island off the coast of Maine whose residents were evicted by the state. I was not aware of this event till I picked up this book. The storytelling was done in a unique way using lovely prose and lengthy sentences to pack an emotional punch. It’s easy to detect empathy for the souls of these folks from the writing. The story starts off when the first inhabitants of Apple Island Benjamin Honey, a former slave and his wife Patience, an Irish descendant were in a devastating Hurricane in the 1800s. The story is told using biblical references of Noah’s arc to her grand children nearly a century later. She is the great great granddaughter of Benjamin and Patience. There are several family members to keep track of; mixed race and probably inbred, impoverished and malnourished, but living harmonious lives in shanty-type homes. Then a well- intentioned former teacher named Matthew visits the island to provide education for the children. This sets the stage for the eugenics team to investigate this community. There are quite the unique cast of characters on the island, such as Zachary Hand to God Proverbs who lives in a tree and carves biblical etchings. Also, the grandchildren of Esther who excel in their studies, with Ethan standing out as a talented artist. This novel has themes of racial prejudice, family bonds, survival, poverty and displacement. There are passages throughout that refer to biblical stories as well as Shakespeare references. This novel would appeal to those interested in historical and rural fiction. Thank you to NetGalley and W. W. Norton for a copy of this arc in exchange for my review.

I loved the idea of the story: In the early twentieth century, a small group of racially diverse people who were descended from a bi-racial couple (Black man, white Irish woman) who had settled an island on the coast of Maine they named Apple Island, came to the attention of their white mainland neighbors, who decided something needed to be done about them. The author conveyed the attitudes of the time well. I got a good feel for most of the characters, especially the island's inhabitants, both original and 20th century. My problem was that a lot of the writing went on and on in description that at times made it a bit hard to follow, as I had to remember the subject of the sentence and sometimes had to go back to make sure. Otherwise, I would have given it 5 stars.

4.25 Reading This Other Eden in the same week as Stealing was a lot. Another hard look at history that is tough to swallow. This Other Eden is the story of an island first discovered in 1792 by a formerly enslaved man and his Irish wife. A century later, the island has become a diverse place filled with poverty and hunger, but free from racism and other atrocities on the mainland. When a schoolteacher turned missionary arrives on the island, a series of events is set off and the island will never be the same. This is inspired by a true story, and Harding weaves in short non fiction paragraphs that really brought this story to life and made it excruciating to digest. This book packs a big punch in just over 200 pages, but is a quieter book with a wide cast of characters. The prose is incredibly beautiful despite the ugly subject matter.

This one reminded me a little of The Colony, which was longlisted for last year's Booker Prize, and which I also enjoyed. Inspired by a true story, This Other Eden describes life on Apple Island, an isolated settlement founded by ex-slaves just off the coast of Maine. When state officials take an interest in the island, the eccentric inhabitants find themselves forcibly evicted, and their hard-earned community is forever destroyed. This is an interesting, if harrowing, story, which sheds light on a dark corner of history whose specifics I was unfamiliar with, even if the general premise is one that has been covered many times before. The characters help to make this story feel new, and I loved how Paul Harding tries to show different sides to the story, making his characters feel like humans rather than stereotypes. I enjoyed the way this one was written, and there are some particularly beautiful moments of writing. While the story isn't told in a particularly innovative way, I did enjoy the interludes, which come towards the end of the book, of a modern perspective looking back at how the Island and its history has been remembered. I thought these disinterested fragments, contrasting with the horrors of what was happening, were very powerful. This Other Eden wasn't quite a five-star read for me, but I enjoyed it very much.

This is a beautifully written story that really deserves one's full attention which is why I'm sad I listened to it versus reading it off the page. I was just distracted enough (crossing the street, pausing the audio to complete a transaction) the first 45 minutes that I was disappointed in myself. That said, this is not a hard narrative to follow-- we know from the blurb that state officials mean to "cleanse" the island of its inhabitants. Still, my heart hurt and I found myself whispering, "no, no, no...!" Harding really does a wonderful job creating these characters. There is a lot in this short book and I wouldn't be sad to re-read it on paper. I thought this would be a good companion book to Fellowship Point, which also deals with land in Maine and who owns it versus who it belongs to. But really the stories were so different!

This wasn't quite what I was expecting. I think I was expecting more of a tale of idyllic island life and happy mixed race families being torn from their homes. There is an element of that but the characters lives are told in a more raw way, but beautifully and empathetically written. I had to go back and look at the history of what happened on Malaga Island to gain a better understanding. I was also hoping to feel a bit more connection with the characters, but seemed to be held away from the characters a bit more than I was expecting. It's really well done but without that feeling of connection, I can't say that it will be a favourite book this year.

[Edited 1/30/202] We’re in a small town on a Japanese island. It’s dominated by the brutal “memory police” who make things disappear. Well, they make people make them disappear by declaring that ribbons or emeralds or stamps have to disappear and the citizens reluctantly but dutifully gather and hold bonfires to burn the now-forbidden item of the month. Some people keep forbidden items and if the MP’s hear of that they will kick your door in and confiscate the items and haul you off who knows where. It’s likely you won’t be heard from again. And not only do they forbid hoarding of items, they want the memory of those items to be destroyed. Most people forget what ribbon was, or what it was used for, and they forget the smell of now-banned perfume. But some people remember. The MPs want those people. The MPs know who they are and a few good souls try to hide them from the police in basements and in secret rooms at great peril to themselves Our heroine is a young novelist. Her mother, a sculptor, was a hoarder of banned items. Her mother is no longer with us. The young woman only has two friends: her publisher and an old family friend who ran the ferry boat to the mainland before the ferry was “disappeared.” She doesn’t have the power of memory but she’s hiding someone in her house who does. Increasingly important things begin to be banned: birds, fruit… and guess what else? It’s a novel about the trauma of loss. We get to read excerpts from our heroine's latest novel about a woman who permanently loses her voice, so we have a story within a story that’s a metaphor for the ongoing horrors. She develops a love interest in her real life along with the woman in her story, so that helps keep the plot moving along. A good story, and I think the book has the potential over time to become a classic of dystopian totalitarian literature along with others such as Brave New World, Fahrenheit 451 and 1984. A classic quote used in the book: “Men who start by burning books end up burning other men.” I recently read and enjoyed another book by this Japanese author (b. 1962): The Housekeeper and the Professor. It too was about memory loss: an elderly professor who could retain recent memory only for an hour and a half. Top photo on Honshu Island from thetimes.co.uk Illustration from mexikaresistance.files.wordpress.com The author from smh.com.au

Is forgetting a tragedy if emotions are slowly erased with it? Who knows....we won't remember.

Stories like this one are the reason I love dystopian literature. I find it fascinating to imagine alternate worlds, similar to our own, where things are strange and uncanny. They require you to ask questions. They make you beg for explanations. They want you to look for unsettling similarities between the story's reality and our own "normal" reality. In The Memory Police, Yōko Ogawa *brilliantly* explores the importance of memories, the power an object holds, as well as the concept of censorship and control. While I read, she made me wonder how I would feel if the things around me began to disappear. It was a heartbreaking thought. "No more roses, or birds, or fruit?!?!?! But I could never live in a world without those things," I said to myself. "I *could* live without mosquitos though. If only they would disappear..." The narrator brings the reader into this eerie world she's living in, and we follow along, unsure why, how, or what is happening. Although we learn about this world by experiencing the daily life of the main character, I wish we got to know a bit more about the "how" and "why." I appreciate an ambiguous story, but I crave to find out why and how certain things happened. Nevertheless, I must find peace in the unknown. One of my favorite aspects of this story was how books, art, writing, music, photography, and sculpture played an important role in the character's lives. All of these things hold power, importance, and some may even hold secrets inside of them. My one main misgiving about this book is the "romantic" element. Without spoiling the plot, I didn't think certain circumstances were entirely necessary or added to the story. I think the romantic scenes could have worked just as well, if both characters were "on a solitary journey" shall we say... It's very hard to explain this without spoiling anything, so I apologize if this is confusing. Overall, this book melted my brain (in a very good way).

Now Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2020 Who we are strongly depends on our past experiences and the reality that has surrounded us, so what happens if, bit by bit, this reality is made to disappear, and with it the memories ingrained in our hearts? In Yoko Ogawa's highly allegorical novel, the enigmatic "memory police" is controlling the population of a remote island, subjugating the inhabitants by continually forcing them to destroy and forget things like roses, perfume or birds, and all memories attached to them. Every lost memory leaves a new hole in people's hearts, but those who won't forget will be taken away and might get killed. How long can a person endure when those trying to control their mind eat away at their heart? Our protagonist is an unnamed young novelist, thus a person who professionally creates coherence and identity, who aims to preserve and represent the world in narratives. When the memory police prepares to arrest her editor because he is unable to erase his memories, she hides him in her home, aided by an old man she befriended. Secretly, she tries to proceed working on her latest novel about a woman who has lost her voice - this whole novel-within-the-novel is twisting and reflecting the narrated world, asking questions about expression (losing your voice and losing your memory), freedom (being phsyically and psychologically captured), and death (losing your identity and losing your phsyical self). In all constellations Ogawa presents, I was fascinated by the protagonists' coping mechanisms, which you could often just as well call self-betrayal - this text is also a meditation on the workings of the mind under the conditions of authoritarian terror or human cruelty. In this novel, a lot remains unexplained, e.g. why some people can and others can't forget as ordered by the memory police, what the ultimate goal of the memory police is (if they even have one beyond total control), or who their bosses are. Sometimes, I also felt like the author wasn't able to stringently employ her narrative concept, because how should the characters refer to things after they have disappeared? On top of that, there is the theme of climate change hovering in the background, but it isn't coherently tied into the main storyline. Still, these factor do not diminish the impact of the text, which more than anything is set up to be an allegory. In this respect, Ogawa's work reminded me of the wonderful Han Kang. "The new cavities in my heart search for things to burn. They drive me to burn things and I can only stop when everything is in ashes", explains the narrator's editor at one point. This book contains numerous sentences like this one, investigating the relationship between memory, feelings, freedom and identity. A very worthwhile read, cleverly constructed and rendered with a lot of poetic sensibility.

There is this Japanese idea of "Mono no aware" or the "pathos of things." How ephemeral beauty is, how everything is transient and fleeting - and the sadness that accompanies that realization. And that sentiment pervades the book as things disappear. Something in the air changes, and on waking the people stumble outside to understand what has been removed from their lives. One morning the rivers are covered in petals slowly floating out to sea as roses join hats, ferries, and birds as the thing that is gone. Soon the very memory of it disappears. But then it takes a turn to the dystopian. Jackbooted thugs called Memory Police appear to ensure that newly forgotten thing is truly eradicated. They are there when novels are disappeared, stoking massive pyres of books, setting the library ablaze, ransacking homes looking for things that should be forgotten and carting away those that still remember. And as it nears the end it takes on an absurdist tone that borders on the horrifying but is still presented in a calm, almost flat affect that pervades this particular translation. It's such an open-ended read that defies easy categorization and that is both frustrating - I mean what's with the typewriter story? - and it's biggest strength. It allows for a myriad of interpretations that hinge on the personal. It is a story reflecting the Cultural Revolution, speaks to Trump's America, harkens back to sanctions against Yugoslavia and is a metaphor for social media and the very act of writing. Or maybe it's just my need to imbue the whisper quiet story with some larger narrative to explain its nagging persistence.

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2020! Every page of this book was like reliving the queer feeling I usually try to fight on waking up. I hate waking up, I hate slowly assembling my consciousness and rationality while still trying to grasp those wisps of dreams that linger in my mind like the remnants of some illogical, irrational, gravity defying, conservation violating world that only my subconscious mind is allowed in. It always feels as though I'm leaving something important behind, some sort of divine knowledge. I break my focus for two seconds and these wisps also disappear, and only a notion of an impenetrable world remains. Assuming there is a connection, however vague, between our sense of self and the objects that surround us, what happens to the self if these objects abruptly disappear, leaving behind just a thin, flimsy reflection in the deep recesses of our minds? We have no memory whatsoever of these objects, but a first glance of them does spark a vague recognition only to be swallowed up immediately, and is replaced by an immense sense of loss and confusion. But in a world turned upside down, things I thought were mine and mine alone can be taken away much more easily than I would have imagined. The inconceivability of non-existence is a haunting theme throughout the book. On an island where objects disappear randomly and retaining any memory of them is a crime, the people live in a murky, surreal state of scarcity and fear. Our unnamed protagonist often contemplates the inevitable disappearance of her very self, her body and tries to structure her complicated emotions by writing novels which themselves center around loss and the acceptance of loss. What I found to be most striking in this book were the anomalies, the people who remember, who hide (and often do not succeed) from the aggressive force of the 'memory police'. Survival for them is a complex play, a tricky matter of concealing their retained memories and intact perception in a world whose edges are slowly crumbling away. Although marketed as a dystopian novel, this book is much more than that. It deals with many important themes: the transformation of a world from efflugent to derelict (given the current state of world affairs, this is probably something we will have to deal with soon), the wiping away of identity, the oppressive forces that impose upon us a life of suffering, the struggle to retain a sense of self despite massive irreversible changes, and of course love. Stray observation: I think Yoko Ogawa has a thing for birthdays (can't blame her). There are simple yet elegant birthday celebrations in both The Housekeeper and the Professor and The Memory Police, although strangely, they are both immediately followed by anxiety inducing storylines.

"I suppose memories live here and there in the body... But they're invisible, aren't they? And no matter how wonderful the memory, it vanishes if you leave it alone, if no one pays attention to it. They leave no trace, no evidence that they ever existed." The acceptance of one's mortality is perhaps one of the most profound moments in a person's life. From the first waves of existence our immediate impulse is wired for self-preservation. We want to live longer as soon as we taste life. That is why an infant would cry for the nourishment of its mother’s milk when it feels hunger. Then comes consciousness and our impulse is to desire experiences and gratification of the senses to no end. We build a shell around our being, pieced by memories of our interactions and relationships with people, objects, and concepts. We do all we can to preserve this shell. Until the shell is cracked, then damaged, and eventually broken. People have a hard time accepting this. Those around them suffer even more. It is called the last stage of grief; it should also be the last stage of life. A person who openly submits to the cessation of his existence will see those shells plucked piece by piece until eventually there is nothing more to pluck and what was built is gone. Grace manifests in the quiet fortitude of a person who is at peace with the idea that soon he or she will have each part, each memory erased, until all the traces of their existence vanish, expecting nothing more. Yoko Ogawa's The Memory Police is a story about loss outlined in the slow process of human decay, told in a dystopian fable about people losing their understanding and memories of things one by one. It is cold, bare, and haunting. There is a certain ghost-like quality in the simple prose of this work. We hear from the perspective of a name-less novelist who seems almost detached, resigned to the loss that is their everyday life. Then we are allowed to read from the novel she is working on. She is writing a novel about a typist who loses her voice and then everything else. Alternating between the writer and the character we suffer through loss, initially, in small doses. We are conditioned to this state until we have accepted it not as a stranger to be shunned, but a welcome friend to greet when it passes. It starts with a small object, and then it becomes something more significant like a living being, then freedom, a part of your senses, a loved one. They pile onto a heap of things both personal and valuable, all labeled as lost, until there is nothing left but that great heap. It’s like watching a small spark turning into a flame, no bigger than a hand, spreading until it has consumed a pile of books, and then an entire building. This is a beautiful meditation on loss and self-acceptance. Given its natural course, the accumulation of loss in our existence becomes harder and harder to bear. We become more and more uncomfortable with life so fragmented by things gone. Our existence becomes a shadow filling the emptiness of those that have been. Until eventually loss itself becomes not the source of pain, but the final act of comfort. Find people, moments, things you wouldn’t want to lose. Make memories you wouldn’t want to forget. And when all is said and done, all might be lost and forgotten. But you made forgetting and losing hard. That’s enough. "No one can erase the stories." All that’s left are the words that slowly drift away like wisps of smoke in a dark winter's night.

3.5 stars A quiet dystopian that is more a story about loss and memory than about the dystopia itself.

The first feeling i’ve got about this book is space. I do not understand how the book which is dealing with quite a claustrophobic subject manages to have so much empty space and air in it. Maybe it is the quality of writing. The prose is economic, sparse and not solely words have meaning. It seems, even those spaces between the words, those silences and those explanations that are left out end up meaningful as well. The book also leaves a lingering aftertaste. Something shapeless and non-verbal, like a ghostly presence without tangible image or thought. The plot is simple: what if an object or a phenomenon which surround us disappear. Not simply the objects, but the memories of them, those individual particular bits of consciousness which comprise the identity. How it would be if you look at an object, but it stops representing something meaningful. We all face such moments in our life. I’ve read once somewhere that love is over when you look at the old photo and you do not feel pain anymore… But, what is in the extreme? The book probes this to the bone, but does it with gentleness and subtlety. The thoughts which go beyond the usual limits of our comprehension, what happens if a part of you disappear living an empty whole? First figuratively, then maybe even not? How our mind can perceive non-existence, or rather a slow transformation between here and there? While reading, I was thinking about a Buddhist concept Anattā (is a composite Pali word consisting of an (not, without) and attā (soul). The term refers to the central Buddhist doctrine that "there is in humans no permanent, underlying substance that can be called the soul." from Wiki). Or, just in common sense fashion, where is the limit of our identity, what do I need to lose to stop being me? Would it still matter then? The good thing about this novel that it avoids the answers. It reads almost like a documentary, like someone’s dairy. It just states the facts and the details of everyday existence with the metamorphoses which look shocking to us, the readers, but not that shocking, almost mundane to the characters. There is another thought provoking thread in the book. Some people in this society is immune to the phenomena of disappearance. They are hunted by the authorities. So quiet often they are hidden by the “normal” people. The main character hides her editor as well. Is it the act of resistance? Is it enough? What are the hopes of the people in such situations? What is considered to be brave? There are certainly some connotations of the situation during the World War 2 when some people chosen to hide the Jewish neighbours and some have chosen to renounce them. But in general, can one judge what is fatalism and what is resistance while never been in such a situation? There is almost Kafkaesque sense of futility of a big struggle. It is probably not a coincidence that the one of the main characters is named just R. However, there are a lot of happy moments in that disappearing transient space. There is kindness. And there is beauty, like a dog following the movement of the sun to enjoy its warmth, or the sound of the falling snow. The minor problem I’ve had that the book contained a novel within the novel written by the main character. Two narratives were following a symmetrical trajectory meeting at the similar allegoric situation eventually. I found the second narrative more distractive than helping. But it did not ruin the book for me. Finally, the novel contains a piece of useful “advice” that is as uncanny to find there as it is relevant to the situation many of us find ourself at the moment: “The healthiest way of living in the secret room was to wake in the morning thinking about the things that had to be done during the day; there, at night before going to bed, to check that everything had been accomplished, whether satisfactory or not. Moreover, the morning agenda needed to be as concrete as possible, and the tasks ideally involved some sort of reward, no matter how small.” 4.5 stars

this is such a brilliantly done book. finding out it's based on Anne Frank made it even more impactful. there were some repetitive parts that made the middle part drag, but I LOVED the ending so much.

i knew now that i lacked the courage to rejoin the outside world :((((( 3.5 rounded up

Shortlisted for the 2020 International Booker. Having been chosen with a group of other Goodreads friends to read “Tyll” as part of the Reading Agency’s shadowing of the 2020 International Booker Prize, I decided to read the rest of the shortlist – something I had previously decided not to do and instead concentrate my reading time (severely hampered by COVID-19) on the Women’s Prize longlist. This rather gentle book - despite its misleading dystopian billing - makes one on level a marked and welcome contrast to the transgressive violence of “Hurricane Season” (which unfortunately shades into gratuitousness by the end) and to “The Discomfort of the Evening” (which, like most of the genre to which it belongs, at times tries too hard to be shocking and tips over into laughable). But at the same time I felt the book also lacked the strongest aspect of those two books - their drive and urgency. Occasionally the premise of the book - the disappearing objects works really well. I thought the most powerful example was when R’s (*) wife gives birth to their son and supplies him (via a dead letter drop) with a drawing. First of all because this idea, of a pencil picture of a new born, jars with the reader and then as R reflects on the disappearance of photographs and what they represent, again sparking some faint resonance with the narrator. "Of course photographs have already disappeared he murmured. "Photographs?" I said, not understanding what he meant. Then, after repeating the word to myself, I finally realized I had a vague memory that there had once been smooth pieces of paper that captured someone's image Another strong moment is when (in a scene which seems a rather pale version of Fahrenheit 451) the narrator watches a thrown book and is suddenly reminded of the image of a bird - an image which was meaningful to her via her father’s interest in birds, but which should have disappeared from her memory. This scene showing to me a kind of flickering Proustian resistance to the Memory Police's erasure of memory. I followed the arc of the last book as it tumbled through the air - and suddenly I realized that, long ago, I had stood at this same window with my father and looked out at a similar sight. I took a deep breath and felt a slight pain, as though a spark had found its way into the bottomless swamp of my heart. "A bird". I remembered. The pages of the book had opened and fluttered through the air just the way birds had once spread their wings and flown off to distant places. But this memory, too, was, soon erased by the flames, leaving behind nothing but the burning night Neither though is applied consistently. The old man is constantly discussing his boat -how he has no memories of it and cannot recall the job he used to do - but seems to do this by listing the things he has forgotten and the tasks he no longer does ("I lost the fun of getting my hands oily tinkering with the engine"). And for me the bird imagery idea could have given rise to a wonderful Oulipian constraint - the author via the voice and imagination of the narrator, successively dropping metaphors/similes/imagery as the objects which inspire them are disappeared - but with some fading Proustain echoes. Admittedly the author/translator do avoid any inconsistency here - but this is due to (at least in translation) using language which is very straightforward, almost pedestrian. And some of the rare similes used jar - at one stage in the interleaved short story, as the captor sits opposite the typist instructing her to eat, we are told He has the mannerisms of a waiter in a fancy restaurant. I enjoyed the secret writing theme which connects the inspiration for the novel (Anne Frank’s diary), the author’s own debut novel (which her husband only found out about when she won a prize) and this novel’s protagonist (and her continuation of the story of the typist - a typist who, in what I think is a clever juxtaposition, loses first the one thing the inhabitants of the Island retain - their voices). I also really liked the idea of the mother’s sculptures and the role they have - representing I think the way in which art can act as a memorial for societal culture, a repository for preserving what is and was important to people. Overall a stronger book than the another I have read by the author (the rather simplistic "The Professor and the Housekeeper"), but one that feels like it could have been so much better. 3.5* (*) and in a book which is I think is far less topical than implied (and which in contrast to other reviews I think shows every sign of having been written in its original language years previously) having R as a key character in the novel is an inadvertent masterstoke and gives rise to some lines which are very apposite for our times as the protection of R (even his being carefully kept at a lower level) becomes paramount to the hope that normal society may one day resume. Clean and disinfect everything; hygiene will be more important since no doctor can come to take care of us if R falls ill Learn more about R: from now on, he won't have contact with anyone except the two of us

"A heart has no shape, no limits. That's why you can put almost any kind of thing in it, why it can hold so much. It's like your memory, in that sense." "Memories don't just pile up - they also change over time. Ans sometimes they fade of their own accord." "Important things remain important things, no matter how much the world changes."

A Kentuki is a small toy-like appliance. A couple of feet high, looks like a panda, or a mole, or a crow (there are other types). You buy one for a few hundred euros, you take it home and charge it. It has three wheels on its base, some have appendages like wings, they all have eyes – and in my minds eye, they look a bit cute. If you buy one of these you’re called a keeper. But you can’t control it. Another person, perhaps sitting in a room in another country purchase the licence/software for your device and taps into your kentuki. This person is then able to control your kentuki, they don’t know you and vice versa. They start moving the kentuki, looking through the eyes of your kentuki and even making adorable noises. There is no other obvious way to communicate. The person ‘inhabiting’ your kentuki is a dweller. In effect you have a stranger roaming around your home. Some keepers get very attached to their kentukis, they love them like pets and everything is cosy. Also, some dwellers, have a whale of a time – they get to see another part of the world, experience the life of someone living in a different country. Happy days. If you’re reading this review – what would you rather be a kentuki keeper or a dweller. Please choose one. If I had to choose, as both have their issues – I’d probably be a keeper. This offering by the clever Samanta Schweblin is a riveting read. Chapters are titles as locations (e.g. Beijing – Lyon). Indicating the location of the keeper and the dweller. We follow the stories of the kentukis, dwellers and keepers throughout the book. Believe me, I became very attached to a couple of these bloody kentukis. To the point of feeling distraught when one was mistreated, even worse when one died. I was also horrified when a dweller ‘had’ to witness something terrible, imagine that!! Made all the worse because of the difficulty to make contact. This was book offers one helluva a ride. This is a play on social media and the blurring of our personal boundaries when communicating with those we don’t know, this never happens on Goodreads of course, because we all love each other and are all sound people. But, there are dark places and dodgy people on-line as we know (including the occasional ‘Goodreader’ of course), they’re everywhere. The level of interaction and observation offered by kentukis offers something new, something more intimate. It’s also not regulated. How come us humans are so good at implementing new things and then we scramble to regulate the nefarious impacts of these initiatives? Vaping and online gambling come to mind. I have read only one of Schweblin’s books before, Fever Dream (5 Stars!), that was also an emotional experience, scary. Review here Fever Dream. I really like this author and will certainly read more of her work; she has the ability to make a reader squirm. 4 Stars (almost 5)

While there have been many think pieces about the potential joys, pitfalls and dangers of our social media age, I haven’t read much fiction which imaginatively and realistically tackles these issues. “Little Eyes” presents a society where mechanical stuffed animals called “kentukis” become a new craze for people around the world – from an idle boy in Antigua to a pensive artist’s wife in Oaxaco to a lonely old woman in Lima. The cute mechanized animals are fitted with a camera which links to an anonymous controller or “dweller” who voyeuristically watches the life of the owner or “keeper”. Samanta Schweblin puts her characteristic dark spin on this story as a series of characters find themselves entangled in connections which spiral out of control and threaten to overwhelm them. It feels entirely plausible that this is a device which would catch on and become a thing. It's like a cross between reality TV, social media apps and a robotic pet. The characters are initially confused about why they want to either own a kentukis or inhabit one, but they're drawn to it out of curiosity and gradually find themselves addicted. The anonymous connections they create introduce power plays between keepers and dwellers. It's clever how the novel shows hidden aspects of the characters' personalities emerging through their interactions with the devices in surprising and unforeseen ways. Some might become exhibitionistic or needy or amorous or jealous or even sadistic. Read my full review of Little Eyes by Samanta Schweblin on LonesomeReader

fascinating and creepy and masterful

3.5 ⭐ Samanta Scweblin is not everyone's cup of tea. I was in need of a book that would fuck with my mind, and a couple years ago, Riverhead gifted me Fever Dream. I love that book so much that I've read it multiple times. I love reading books that get into your head and you get something different from it with each re-read. I started this one on audio since I'm currently having a difficult time reading physical books. There is a LOT going on in this book, so I quickly decided to purchase it and read it while listening to it. If you don't like having several POVs, or have a hard time keeping up with a lot of separate stories (they're relatable, but don't necessarily intertwine), than this one won't be for you. With cameras in so many things we own, this crazy idea for a "toy" isn't as far fetched as it may seem. It was a good inside look to how addictive technology can be, and a great reminder of how just about anything can be used for good and ill intent. While I really liked the points that are made throughout this book, even though it can be a harsh reality for many, the execution is why I gave it 3.5 stars. The flow was a bit jarring. Once I had the physical copy of the book it was much easier to read and keep up with, but it still felt a bit off.

Winner of the International Booker Prize Despite its striking cover and beautiful title, this was a discomforting novel. It's not the kind of novel one enjoys. Its themes are not fun - there's grief that manifests in uncomfortable ways, self-mutilation, animal cruelty/death, incestuous sexual experimentations and a whole lot of weird stuff. To my great relief and consternation, I believed it all and the weird stuff never felt gratuitous or exaggerated. I usually struggle with child narrators. It wasn't the case with Jas, the young twelve-year-old narrator of this novel. She was naive and candid enough while also very observant. Her life is a bit unusual, not only she's brought up on a dairy farm, but she's brought up in a strict religious family. I don't know why I was surprised to discover that there still are religious people in one of the most progressive countries in the world. This is a short novel, but it was thought-provoking and eye-opening. Duality, contradictions, urges, grief are well explored. Now that I'm writing these thoughts, I'm even more impressed with this young writer. Unfortunately, this is not a novel one goes ga-ga over or recommends to others. Or you recommend it with caveats and trigger warnings. I am glad I was curious enough to try it. That was greatly facilitated by the library audiobook.

‘Because we’re always in pain, we know exactly what it means to hurt somebody else.’ In the past year I’ve really come to appreciate Mieko Kawakami. Heralded by Haruki Murakami, I eagerly dove in and have been continuously astonished by her ouveur and literary punk-rock expressions of ideas. Heaven is the third novel translated to English by Japanese singer turned poet turned author Mieko Kawakami, who;s much praised—and deservedly so—Breasts and Eggs topped almost every Best Of list for 2020 (Heaven was shortlisted for the 2022 International Booker Prize), and is an extraordinary little novel that really highlights her major themes. Told from the perspective of a young boy who has faced heartbreaking and tragic levels of bullying, Kawakami delves into issues of trauma and how various ideologies on meaning in life address trauma. Deftly positioning the issues as a larger critique on society, ableism, and classism, Kawakami crafts a marvelously engaging book that is both heartbreaking and illuminating. ‘If we’re weak, our weakness has real meaning.’ Published in Japan in 2009 and just now translated into English by Sam Bett and David Boyd, Heaven predates both Ms Ice Sandwich and the completed two-part Breasts and Eggs (though not the original novella) and reads like a thematic Big Bang of her primary ideas. The story follows a brutally bullied young boy and his growing friendship with classmate, Kojima, who is also a primary target for abuse in the classroom. While the narrator comes across as weak and complaint to his violent detriment, Kojima is passive to abuse in a different way. With a voice that ‘reminds me of a 6B (pencil),’ he says to her in a letter, ‘soft and rigid at the same time., Kojima is a bit of an icon of ascetic resistance icon who believes their suffering has a deeper meaning of real strength and that they are an avenue to teach their bullies a lesson. Through the emotional journey that explores the perils of a relationship forged on shared suffering, Kawami demonstrates one of her most impressive literary attributes: creating heartrending juvenile characters that read as so lifelike and empathetic you want to give them a hug. Such as Midoriko in B&E or the narrator in Ms Ice Sandwich, Kawakami truly shines when examining youthful emotions in a way that would make her novels a perfect crossover for YA readers. ‘My eye was behind all my problems.’ Kojimo has an interesting philosophy on bullying and the reasons behind it. ‘It’s a painful thing, I know’ she says to the narrator over his eye, which is a frequent impetus for teasing, ‘but it’s also made you who you are.’ Their signs, as she calls them, that makes them targets, are also what defines them, according to her, due to how it regulates them in the social hierarchy. There is a conversation where the narrator wishes he could be like a regular object the bullies ignore, but Kojima cuts him off to say ‘that’s what we are to them.’ They are objects of torture objectified by their aberations, he for his eye and she for appearing dirty and poor (‘you can look as good as anyone else,’ Kojima points out, ‘it doesn’t even matter if you’re poor,’ which is one of the many doorways into class conflict discourse this novel examines). The way a person can become an Other in society is analyzed in the broader scheme of her works, but also how this happens by being objectified. Physical traits aren’t a valid indication of a person, but it becomes such a large part of the way people choose to see us and value us. Breasts and Eggs scrutinizes how use value in labor is contingent on physical attributes, such as Makiko undergoing breast enhancement surgery despite a large price barrier for the purpose of making her more profitable as a bar employee. Similar to the eye issue in Heaven is the titular character of Ms Ice Sandwich, who underwent facial surgery in hopes of better job placement due to physical beauty (patriarchal gaze abound) but a botched surgery left her with giant eyes that make her an outcast and target for scorn. The use of eyes for this social investigation is brilliant, as eyes are the way we perceive the world around us and are ironically the attribute that is being perceived as demeaning these characters into Otherness. ‘We all see the world in our own way,’ Kojima writes, and sometimes these perspectives on life are uncomfortable and conflicting. On one hand, we have Kojima and her belief in meaning and that there is a moral reward for doing the right thing, like theres a purpose that ‘understands the meaning of everything we’ve been through when it’s all over.’ For her, someone who allows herself to suffer and continues to present herself in a way that draws scorn, is a right of passage and moral message to the world where everyone else is complicit—especially by inaction to countering the worst abusers and thereby enabling much like Hannah Arendt’s theory of the ‘Banality of Evil’—and therefor she is there to teach them. ’They aren’t even thinking. Not at all. They’re just doing what they’ve seen other people do, following blindly. They don’t know what it means, or why they’re doing it….they’re never stopped to think about other people’s pain. They’re just following along, doing what everyone else does.’ This belief, which also views people as victims to normalcy and an oppressive social system they are being used within, is countered by one of the bullies. ‘There’s no beautiful world where everyone things the same way and they all understand each other,’ Momose, the near emotionless and potentially sociopathic (or, for literary purposes, the watcher figure of the novel) bully character asserts. ’Does anything in the world happen for a reason? Pretty sure the answer’s no. Yeah, once it’s happened, you can come up with all kinds of explanations that look like they make perfect sense. But everything starts from nothing. Always.’ His ideology is in direct contrast with Kojima’s belief that their suffering and martyrdom has meaning, claiming ‘none of this has any meaning. Everyone just does what they want...nothing is good or bad.’ and people just do whatever is possible. Harming others isn’t about their eyes or poorness, he claims, but simply because they are beneath them and able to be hurt. 'Listen, if there's a hell, we're in it. And if there's a heaven, we're already there...I think that's fucking great.' Something Kawakami does exceptionally well is create countering arguments without particularly siding with either, letting the novels play out within their frameworks and allowing the reader to make do of them as they will. It’s one of the aspects I enjoy most about her. These differing ideologies function as a nebulous duality to perspectives on life that we see come to play in structures of power and politics all the time. They also present ideas on the meaning of life. Kojima sees suffering as something that will be rewarded later in a very religious sort of sense. Her vision of heaven is personified in a painting she takes the narrator to see, one that shows two people in a basic room together. 'After everything, after all the pain, they made it here. It looks like a normal room, but it's really heaven.' This idea of heaven in the mundane encaptulates her existence and the painting is highly symbolic and something we have to take from her on faith, being only symbolic in a sense like in Woolf's To the Lighthouse as we never actually see the painting. Momose, however, does not see meaning or purpose in anything, so everything is thereby permissable and consquences are only for those who let someone get the better of them. They can enforce rules onto others, but don't truly believe rules apply. The narrator in the novel is a passive vessel to hear these opposing notions on life and try to process them within himself, unsure if it can ever be an either/or situation. Is his eye the cause of who he is, or does his eye not even matter and he is bullied simply for being a weaker figure as Momose insists. While he grapples, there is also the mother figure of the novel who simply balks at everything. Honestly, she is my favorite and such a relatable character always looking at the world and saying ‘that was weird, right?’ This is a whole mood and one I know well. She also figures into Kawakami’s theme of the complexities of familial relations and non-traditional family structures that always resonates like a punk rebellion against what she shows as an image-based society. 'Everything was beautiful. Not that there was anyone to share it with, anyone to tell. Just the beauty.' Heaven is a brief yet hard-hitting novel that examines meaning and power in a really enthralling manner. The finale is shocking and really drives home her message of resistance and rebellion in a way that feels like a rebuke of Haruki Murakami’s compliant, young female characters with the surreal and devastating climax. Her prose is simple yet serene, with complex imagery that is sure to enrapture the reader and colors each scene in pitch perfect emotional context. This is a powerful and heart wrenching little book with an emotional resonance far exceeding it’s page count and I am eager to read everything and anything this incredible author has to offer. 4.5/5 ‘We do it for everyone who’s weak everywhere, in the name of actual strength. Everything we take, all of the abuse, we do it to rise above. We do it for the people who know how important it is.’

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2022 Mieko Kawakami's Heaven is a plain-seeming, heartrending novel about bullying that deftly tests assumptions about morality and meaning...and invites a close encounter with Nietzschean philosophy. The narrative follows 14-year-old narrator's resigned yet inly tormented struggle against bullying, as well as his frustrated endeavours to make sense of his trampled-upon existence. He is convinced that his lazy eye makes him an easy target, as do Kojima's self-created 'signs' (her wilfully 'dirty' appearance, linking her to her miserably poor father, and her later refusal to eat, resulting in excessive weight loss). Both the narrator and Kojima are presented as outsiders, othered and unaccepted by the world – epitomes, in Kojima's view, of 'the strength of weakness'. The narrator in particular feels that he has no choice in the matter; that the world ruthlessly and unfailingly predetermines his inescapable fate. But is it really so? Is there meaning in pain and suffering? How does the dialectical relationship between strength / weakness and its predominance invalidate the standard conception of good versus bad? What are we left with, when there is seemingly nothing left to save? These are some of the questions our main characters grapple with. The bullies – Ninomiya, Momose and clan – represent the extreme pole of domination, post-moral conduct with the prevailing of the pleasure principle, arbitrariness and meaninglessness. The bullied – the narrator and Kojima – represent, on the other hand, the other extreme pole of subjugation, with a belief in moral standards, structures, and the possibility of meaning. This scissors-like contradiction – and the broad spectrum of its possible manifestations, with murkily merging, at times dangerously overlapping outcomes – constitute the firm framework of the narrative. The simplicity of the storyline allows for a more invested approach to philosophical enquiry and nuancing. In this respect, it is of some importance to note that the narrative portrays the bullied's sharp sense of vulnerability and humiliation – and does so with urgent intimacy – before articulating a more complex understanding of its thematic concerns. On their Summer trip to the museum, Kojima tells the narrator about a painting featuring a couple in ordinary circumstances, enjoying the rewards reaped from having overcome pain and sadness together. She renames the painting 'Heaven', because clearly this represents her fairly naïve idea of heaven. It is however symptomatic that Kojima and the narrator never actually get to view the painting together. And, also, that the ending is deliberately ambiguous on this front, that is, as regards to the empowering force of overcoming suffering. It is certainly not cathartic in a complete sense, or distortedly so. Because the narrator is only able to draw 'incompatible conclusions' and is 'unable to tell which one was true'. The extended, exceedingly harrowing, and bloody bullying episode – in which the narrator gets heavily injured and must go to the hospital – builds up to the confrontation, between the narrator and Momose, on which the entire thrust of the novel's philosophical questioning seems to rest. I would argue, however, that the confrontation scene presents some important issues. Essentially, it is baffling that Momose should be expected to take upon himself the weighty task of recalibrating the morality question, with claims and statements that can hardly be those of a 14-year-old. The level of unconvincing discourse at such a momentous and critical point of the narration is not what I would have expected. Insofar as it is a pivotal movement in the novel, I cannot help but feel that the somewhat awkward, inadequately handled, and overall unsatisfactory execution of this scene is far from being a trivial matter, and sadly undermines the narrative cohesion. It is as if Kawakami gets carried away by the desire to trace a philosophically complex tabula of the morality question, removing her characters from their determining contexts. In essence, Momose calls forth the idea that 'It couldn't be any simpler. People do what they can get away with.' Acting, therefore, on the spur of the moment; purely doing things on a whim. Irrespective of the person on the receiving end. Because what matters, from where the bullies are standing, is following one's urges, whatever they may be. I found the writing delicately poetic, lyrical almost, in its depiction of the narrator's interaction with his hostile whereabouts and his plight; also with nature itself as it is perceived by him, through his lazy eye: depthless and, on its part, beautifully overpowering. There is also a touching sense of intimacy in the unfolding of his friendship with Kojima, largely developed through letter-writing and punctuated by moments of silence. The development of their friendship is not strained at all, and does justice to the morose sentiment of Kawakami's vision. This is ultimately an important novel. It strikes me as a singular occurrence within the literary scene, in that it sets itself the task of presenting a sufficiently complex portrayal of a reality – bullying – that does not generally find its way into literary fiction, notwithstanding the range of its marked presence and manifestation in everyday existence. 4 stars. The novel's philosophical import is worth noting. To my mind, however, the partial mismanagement of the narrative's core movement constitutes too relevant an issue, and detracted, to some degree, from its literary value.

“Listen, if there is a hell, we're in it. And if there's a heaven, we're already there. This is it.” In Mieko Kawakami's Heaven, our 14-year old protagonist faces unrelenting torment and bullying. Everyone seems complicit in this bullying, and there seems no end in sight. It is absolutely brutal. When he receives letters offering friendship from a fellow classmate, Kojima, things begin to look up. However, Kojima is also bullied and nearly as soon as this friendship begins, there is a sense of darker days ahead. A chance encounter with one of the bullies, Momose, offers a lengthy philosophical perspective on our protagonist's torment. Momose sums it up, “The weak can’t handle reality. They can’t deal with the pain or sadness, let alone the obvious fact that nothing in life actually has any meaning.” To me, this seemed like the Grand Inquisitor moment. The part of the novel, like Dostoevsky's The Brothers Karamazov, that explained human nature. In the disturbing conclusion, Kojima rejects that premise and accepts suffering, “We do it for everyone who’s weak everywhere, in the name of actual strength. Everything we take, all of the abuse, we do it to rise above.” Heavencan be tough to read, but it is quite powerful. This is the first novel I've read by Mieko Kawakami, but it won't be the last.

I really suffered through this. A painful book which leaves me so many questions about what is morally wrong, what we can question or not about youth, about laws, about life. I loved and hated it. I thought it was too much, and then I thought is this something that happens? yes it can happen. I can simplify it by saying it is a novel about bullying, but it is more than that. Kawakami is a writer who has a totally different angle than other japanese writers I have loved, but I find she is writing necessary stories. Very recommended.

I loved so much about this book - the writing, the characterisation, its themes, the power of its emotions - although I wasn't quite sure what to make of the ending.

This was hard to read because it consists of bullying. Savage bullying. But well-written and I think it was a very good read. The first-person narrator who is bullied, as far as I can tell, does not reveal his name (and neither do other people in the story). He has a female friend, Kojima, who is also bullied, and perhaps because of this they become friends. (view spoiler) One of the bullies, Momose, explains to the first-person narrator why he is being bullied. Apparently according to Momose, he just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time – please don’t take it personally. And since he did not fight back, the bullies kept on coming back to him. Through his words I guess we get one viewpoint as to the reason that some children are bullied. I believe there is a whole field of psychology on bullying...that which I know nothing about. Notes: • From Wikipedia — Kawakami worked as a bar hostess and bookstore clerk before embarking on a singing career. Kawakami released three albums and three singles as a singer, but quit her singing career in 2006 to focus on writing. Before winning the Akutagawa Prize in 2008 for Chichi to ran (Breasts and Eggs), Kawakami was known in Japan primarily as a blogger. At its peak, her popular blog received over 200,000 hits per day.] Reviews • https://www.npr.org/2021/05/25/999907... • https://harvardreview.org/book-review... • https://tonysreadinglist.wordpress.co... • https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2022...

170 pages of straight-up depression

As we've come to expect from Kawakami, Heaven is a little dark, a little weird, and very visceral. This one will put you in a strange headspace. It’s quite a bummer, but still beautifully written and passionately felt. It’s one I’m not sure I would “recommend”, it won’t be to everyone’s taste, but it’s one that lingered with me for days. Read my full review of Heaven on Keeping Up With The Penguins.

A young boy and a young girl are both individually being bullied at school. They start writing to each other, and then start meeting each other as they build a relationship based on their difference. There was a point about a third of the way when I was convinced I knew exactly where the novel was going, and I was so wrong. The story goes off in a direction I didn’t expect, and the conversation in the hospital between one of the bullies and the boy just stopped me in my tracks. No spoilers, but a recommendation for all. Try it!

no one talk to me. i need to lay facedown with fairytale of new york on repeat and think about this book until i feel better. i physically couldn't put this book down. not in the can't get enough way you say when you mean "i loved this book so much." i couldn't put it down because when i did i got so overwhelmed with anxiety that i felt ill. my animal brain responded to the unrelenting series of tiny cuts presented in this book with an actual fight or flight response. ultimately i had to give into the agoraphobia and stay inside my house for a full day (canceling plans, rescheduling errands, missing myriad notifications) to knock out the final 400 pages. it was too debilitating. people talk a lot about hanya yanagihara's a little life as maybe the most upsetting book of all time. to me, this one was worse. we follow dickie, inheritor of his father's car dealership in a small country town in ireland; his wife, imelda, the most beautiful woman around; their daughter, cass, navigating a toxic and intoxicating friendship with the coolest girl in school; and their son, pj, who is texting a stranger from the internet a lot. each of them is so lonely, too sensitive for the world and the paltry, mundane wounds it gives us. from climate change to doomsday prep, academics to bereavement, sexuality to solitude, every burden life has to offer found its way to this family, and each and every one hit its mark. i found myself so miserable while reading that i tried to belatedly bargain with the book: if this story has a happy ending, i'll love it. if these characters have a moment of familial connection and contentment, i'll five star it. if any of the characters tells a single one of their secrets to any of the others, it'll be my favorite book ever. i'm not a big fan of sad books, not because i chafe at the idea of being unhappy for even a moment (that too) but because i find myself less impressed with stories that exist on a narrow emotional scale. even the moments of happiness in this book are told reflectively, a now-suffering character casting their eye back on a perfected past. while i wanted more than anything for these people to find happiness, that wasn't (solely) because they were so incredible and i was so invested in them. i wanted a change to the one-note narrative i'd been immersed in for 650 pages. the fact that it didn't come and i'm still impressed with this book is high praise. it doesn't seem like hope appears on page, but i had it anyway. in spite of it all, this book is brilliantly, hilariously written, with unique style and consuming story. bottom line: i hated it and i loved it and it infuriated and devastated me and i craved being done and never wanted it to end and isn't that just life.

1) After the horrible misstep of The Mark and the Void I am so happy to report that Paul Murray is BACK. Skippy Dies is one of my all time favourite novels and I knew it couldn’t be a one-off, and here is the proof. 2) Paul Murray has a rare, exquisite gift for writing about kids and the way they think and talk without looking like your dad in a nightclub. Poor PJ (aged 12) – we agonise along with him so much as he overthinks and applies way too much logic to his life. And he is like a tiny but just as annoying Bill Bryson - did you know that the human body contains two litres of non-human bacteria? No, me neither. Thanks PJ. 3) The Victorians had an excuse for writing freaking long novels, there was nothing else to do but read back then, it was either novels or catch smallpox or polish something or clean a mountain of shoes. They couldn’t even phone each other back then! But these days when I am frequently told TikTok and Instagram have destroyed modern attention spans and no one can concentrate for more than 23 seconds authors constantly deliver unto us enormous beasts like this one, 646 pages, what happened Hamish Hamilton, did all your editors die? This novel is more than somewhat too long. 4 ) It’s Flashback City. Paul Murray concocts some very excruciating situations for his colourful cast of characters - say for example a Big Decision – your character will be streaming their consciousness as they drive in their car (a lot of driving) towards the Big Decision and they will be forever flashbacking to the various bits of the story that led up to this moment (which we have already been through once). And this finally started to get on my nerves, I have to admit. Stop blathering about The Past all the time! I was heard to howl. Just get on with it! Please! This once! In fact one character berates another for doing just that, but actually, they all do it. And do they ever get on with doing the thing we've been waiting for them to do for the last 100 pages? Nope, this lot, they are the wild procrastinators, they never get on with it, never reveal feelings, never admit stuff, never leave, never explain except in their own minds where they explain and mull and ruminate about that thing that happened and that wedding day or that car crash. It wears you down. 5) I hate these fucking places, Caleb says. Everyone’s so self-congratulatory. Acting like they’re Che Guevara because they’re wearing their mam’s earrings? He looks round at the crowd and scowls. I bet you a million euro that when they’re not here performing their category, ninety percent of these people work for some tech firm that runs on tax evasion and Chinese labour camps. Modern novels that are set in contemporary times have this perpetual tendency to turn into bitter black-humored sociological commentary – it seems to be inescapable. Bret Easton Ellis and Edward St Aubyn do it all the time, and it’s all over such novels as The Slap, The Ask, A Visit from the Goon Squad, Animals, Dietland and a trillion that I haven’t read. 6) This book is full of things that don’t happen. And it makes you think that your own life is also full of things that didn’t happen. Some of which we should be very glad about. 7) Two favourite quotes : She’d opened the door and found him there and got a shock – though really it was more the shape of a shock, without the feeling, like the postman bringing you a letter with nothing inside it. The girls are scrolling through a dating app and saying stuff like OMG that is literally the most terrifying man I’ve ever seen. "Have my own business with van” – great, perfect for disposing of your body Then : That’s a nice dog though. I would actually date that dog. Me too, they should have an app for available dogs. 8) If it wasn’t for all the flashbacking which makes your neck ache, being yanked this way and that way, and the one hundred pages too many, this is a 4.5 star novel.

4.5 Mostly a thoroughly enjoyable 5-star read with a disorienting dip in the 3rd quarter that eventually righted itself. But the ending frustrated me to the point of almost erasing all pleasure from the story. After immersing us so much in these lives, the culminating event at the end gave me zero satisfaction. I loved this world for most of the ride, but grrrr right now

Now shortlisted for Booker Prize 2023 - This is my winner. Good luck. The story of a family whose members are all on the brink of breakdown. I'm not a fan of novels that change the protagonist every 150 pages, but in this case, I found that every new family member managed to be more interesting than the previous one. Despite apparently very little plot, Paul Murray keeps things moving in the right direction. In the end, I knew this is my new favorite from this year's Booker longlist.

After that ending, I’m really not sure about what to say about this… I mean, the writing was very effective, and the author is clearly very comfortable with different writing styles. Characterisation was insane, and so was dialogue (well done, Paul Murray, because that’s how kids and teens talk. Bravo!) Also, I don’t think there are a lot of authors out there that can manage to keep the wheels in motion throughout more than six hundred pages whilst jumping from one character’s point of view to another and moving backwards and forwards in time. Another very impressive thing was the way the story unfolded, and how all the twists and turns and big revelations never stopped coming as a surprise. Oh, and I liked the dark humour too, but have to say that, for me, at no point did this story turn into “ahah” kind of funny. So, yeah, plenty of things to love about this one, but by the end of the day, it just took a long, long time (and maybe too many coincidences) to get to that pain in the neck of an ending.

4.5★ “It was true: even now, as a mother of two, Imelda had an electrifying effect on people. When she walked down the street women would cock their heads and gaze at her adoringly, as if at some dazzling athletic display. Men would stop, and stammer, their pupils dilating and their mouths quivering in half-formed O’s, as if trying to push out some ineffable word.” Literature is full of beautiful women, but this small town in Ireland was not. Although the story opens with her daughter, Cass, it is Imelda who is the centre of attention (which she’s used to and makes use of). Cass is plainer, but her best friend, Elaine, is another looker. “She liked to hang out in the kitchen talking to Imelda – that’s what she called Cass’s mother, ‘Imelda’, so casually and naturally that after a while Cass started doing it too. You are so working those jeggings, Imelda, she’d say. Oh, you think so? Cass’s mam/‘Imelda’ would say, and she’d lean over with impossible willow-like grace to examine the back of her own thighs. I wasn’t sure about the stripes. The stripes are what make it, Elaine would say conclusively, and Imelda would look happy. Cass’s mother was a famous beauty. She too had blonde hair and green eyes. It’s so weird that she’s your mam, Elaine said. Doesn’t it make more sense that I should be her daughter? Then we’d be sisters! Cass said. No, I mean, instead of you, Elaine said. Cass wasn’t sure what to do with that.” This will give you a sense of what the punctuation-free writing looks like. Times are now getting tough in Ireland in 2014. Until now, money has been no problem. “Both girls came from well-known families in the town: Cass’s father, Dickie, owned the local Volkswagen dealership, while Elaine’s dad, Big Mike, was a businessman and cattle farmer.” Dickie inherited the dealership from his wealthy father, Maurice, who has now retired to Portugal, but as car sales drop, Dickie struggles with Imelda’s expensive appetite. Imelda begs him to get his father to come home so she can charm him into paying off some of their debt. Maurice loves a pretty girl, so Imelda has always flirted with him as Elaine does with her. Dickie and Imelda also inherited Maurice’s house and large property with woods at the back. Generations of kids have played in an old stone shed, each thinking it’s their discovery of a hiding place. It becomes central to the story as an escape at different times. The bee sting of the title refers to the fact that none of their wedding photos show Imelda’s face, which was completely hidden by her veil. Her father says a bee stung her eye, spoiling her beautiful face, so she preferred to hide it. This story of the bee sting is just one of many family stories that the author unpicks as he moves between many characters and from Imelda’s and Dickie’s childhoods to the present day. So very many things are not what they seem, and everyone is unravelling. Dickie had been an excellent student and went on to Trinity College in Dublin while his brother Frank was the local football hero and sold cars for his father. Small town jealousies and rivalries abound as does small town madness over their sports teams. The one time Imelda feels overlooked is when she dates Frank and everyone ignores her to be near him, It’s a long book that feels long – longer than I think I needed it to be. I never felt convinced by Dickie’s passions or the changes he went through when he returned home. At the end of the book, the author moves from character to character, using the second person. Cass is waking up to Elaine’s self-absorption. “Cass… As the weeks go by, though, something changes. ‘You’ change. You find yourself getting annoyed with her, exasperated, snappish. Little things you barely noticed before begin to infuriate you. The way she leaves her food in the fridge and her dishes in the sink until they literally grow mould… How ‘weird’ she is. Sometimes you wonder if there is a single thing she does that is not in the interest of making somebody, somewhere, like her. She buys trending books and carries them around and abandons them without ever having opened them. She asks you if her jumper is too non-non-binary. “ I was caught up in most of the story, and I’m fine with writing that runs on when it’s done well. It’s how I listen in my head anyway, I think. But I didn’t care for the long ending with everyone being addressed in the second person. I found it jarring to move from “you” being Cass, and then “you” being Imelda or Dickie. I can see why it made the Booker Prize judges take note, and it is a wild saga of a story that I’m unlikely to forget. If you’d like to read an excellent, proper review, I recommend Will Byrnes’s here on Goodreads. Review of The Bee Sting by Will Byrnes

Good man, Dickie, they said. Maith an fear Good man. The only dampener was the bee sting; she was still wearing the veil. At the same time, was it the worst thing? It suggested a hint of sorrow remaining beneath the surface; it silenced any voices that might otherwise have found the celebrations unseemly, too joyous. In Imelda’s veiled face, anyone who wanted to could divine the pain you had suffered, what it had taken you to get here. At first, The Bee Sting reads like an ordinary contemporary family drama — beginning from the POV of a teenage girl in her last year of high school, acting out as the aftermath of the Irish recession puts immense financial and social pressure on her bickering parents — but this is a long book (656 pages) and author Paul Murray has plenty of time and space to make this something other than ordinary. After giving each member of the Barnes family a section in which to introduce themselves, Murray rewinds to the childhoods of the parents, narrating the remarkable story of how this unsuitable couple got together, and as the timeline pitches forwards and backwards, we learn the secrets hidden in the heart of each character and grow to understand that no one can ever really know anyone else at all; we can barely know ourselves. The character growth was remarkable, and the plot was compelling, but this is, at its heart, a social issues novel with some trickiness to its construction that will either annoy or impress the reader. I loved many bits of this — I wouldn’t say I loved it overall (even if I could totally see it winning the Booker this year) — but I was definitely impressed. I’ll try to avoid spoilers. Many of them felt that Imelda was to blame. Dickie made a fortune and Imelda spent two — that was what people said. Imelda, with her cheekbones and her Italian leather boots, got up like the Queen of Sheba just to drive to the supermarket! Giving the poor manager an earful because they didn’t have star anise or tamarind or whatever was supposedly all the rage in New York! It’s a long way from tamarind she was reared, they told each other darkly. It’s a long way from underfloor heating and orthodontists or any of that palaver. Well, look at her now. Despite Ireland easing itself out of The Crisis (Dickie’s father insists that the recession is over and there’s no reason for the car dealership he founded and left in his son’s hands to manage should still be losing money), Barnes Motors is under threat of closing and Dickie’s family is feeling the pinch: mother Imelda is forced to sell off her designer clothes and furnishings on ebay; daughter Cassie doesn’t see the point of studying for her Leaving Exams if there’s no money to send her to Trinity College in Dublin in the fall; and twelve-year-old son PJ is unaccountably worried that he’ll be sent to boarding school if things don’t turn around. In reaction, Dickie spends more and more time in the woods, working on a bunker for his family’s future security. In the beginning, watching this plotline unspool seems to be the point — and as everyone seems privileged and self-centred (except for PJ), I wasn’t sure that I even wanted to commit to this brick of a novel. But things aren’t really what they seem: everyone has pain and repressed desires; people misrepresent themselves (especially on social media); hammers are swinging every which way; black dogs forewarn danger; even a bee sting isn’t what it seems. This really isn’t about the Barnes family at all. Several times throughout this novel, Murray references an Irish fairytale about a man who joins a fairy feast inside a hillside and discovers the next morning that he’s been missing for a hundred years. Time slippages — as well as fate and fortune telling and repressed memories — feature throughout, as when Dickie takes Cassie on a tour of Trinity College and remembers his own days studying there: Even on a normal day, he remembers, passing beneath that arch had always felt like going through a portal — like you were leaving one city and entering another that lay in its midst, a place of pure past. Yet looking at it now he feels as if no time has elapsed at all — as if his own life were still there, continuing somehow untouched by the years, in some eternally resonating present. This is Imelda considering the vagaries of time (and I see reviewers calling this a Molly Bloom-like stream-of-consciousness, but sections from her POV are really just missing the end-stop periods; her sections do have question marks and exclamation points where appropriate, so I thought of this as something else; a mind basic and untrained?): Time doesn’t do what you think it will does it You get your turn But they don’t tell you that’s all it is a turn a moment Everything explodes you’re nothing but feelings Your life begins at last You think it will all be like that Then the moment passes The moment passes but you stay in the shape you were then In the life that’s come out of the things that you did The remainder of that girl you used to be is gone They don’t tell you How could they How could anyone make sense of that And the following is from a guest speaker at Trinity, and in my opinion, is the heart of the whole thing: Global apocalypse is not interested in your identity politics or who you pray to or what side of the border you live on. Cis, trans, black, white, scientist, artist, basketball player, priest — every stripe of person, every colour and creed, we are all going to be hit by this hammer. And that is another fact that unites us. We are all alive together in this sliver of time in which the human race decides whether or not it will come to an end. It seemed to me that Murray introduced us to the Barneses, and made us understand and care about these people, just to stress that their lives don’t matter in the depths of time; that they are just more human parasites on the planet Earth’s resources. And then, seemingly out of nowhere — just as the climactic scenes are being set up in the final one hundred pages — a paragraph that sounds like it’s a message directly from the author himself appears: Today, in the developed world, the great threat to political order is that people will pay attention to their surroundings. Thus, even slaves have access to entertainment. You could even say we are paid in entertainment. The novel was the first instance of what in the twenty-first century has become a vast and proliferating entertainment industry, an almost infinite machine designed to distract us and disempower us. We are presented with a virtual world powered, literally, by the incineration of the real. From this point on, there is much dramatic irony as each character marches inexorably toward danger of their own making — each of them running in a dark wood towards a figurative squirrel trap — and the plot becomes a little breathless and over-the-top, and I started turning the pages faster, wondering if Murray had set up humane traps or if he would swing the hammer down. And I see that some readers think he nailed the ending, and others think he flubbed the ending, but I think he constructed everything very purposefully towards that ending. If a novel is nothing but an example of “an almost infinite machine designed to distract us and disempower us”, what does that say about the kind of reader who has the leisure time to read a brick of a novel for ten or twelve hours? As we march inexorably towards the consequences of our Earth-imperilling lifestyles, couldn’t we be marching in rallies — marching for change — instead? I got the sense in the end that this book is so long — and culminates in scenes that are breathtakingly engaging — to leave me with the feeling that I had been fiddling while Rome burned around me. And I appreciated the trick that Murray pulled off to make me feel that; I’m left impressed.

4.5 stars. A long, but spellbinding tale of an Irish family in free fall. Initially we think that their misfortune is caused by financial issues, but as each of the four members of the Barnes family share their innermost thoughts with us, we realize that their issues run much deeper. We're initially introduced to the two teenagers - Cass and PJ, and although I really felt for PJ (who is probably the most likable character), the story definitely increases in momentum and intensity in the parent's chapters. I love stories where we get to the see the same events through different characters point of view. Paul Murray does a phenomenal job in showing us that we can never know what goes on in people's minds based on their behavior, and I'm not talking about serial killers but just your average family. Each of the narrators has a distinct voice, and I especially enjoyed Imelda's stream of consciousness narrative. The novel moves forward by repeatedly returning to the past and uncovering more and more layers as we return to the same events. I didn't even pick up on the clever foreshadowing at the beginning of the novel until a day after finishing the book. And although I'm still not a fan of the change in pace in the last section, I am now in awe of what I previously thought to be a weak ending. This epic family novel definitely deserves it's spot on the Booker's longlist.

How much does an ending affect your appreciation of a novel? Certainly a bad ending is one that fires a wrench in the mental machinery of your understanding of what has come before. But a surprising ending or one that leaves things open to the readers' interpretation? Well that is undoubtedly a more challenging proposition. Is it the journey that matters or the destination? I won't belabour the ending for too long, only to say that The Bee Sting ends in a way that feels simultaneously shocking and entirely inevitable. In that way I suppose it's a good ending. When I finished the book I felt like I needed to crawl under the covers and sleep away a deep depression, but I turned to the internet and was pleased to find that it had all been spelled out for me if I'd known where to look. Even though it's the last thing Murray leaves us with, The Bee Sting's entirety should not be judged simply on whether or not one enjoys the conclusion. A powerfully modern novel, The Bee Sting revolves around the four members of the Barnes family in small town Ireland over the course of a year with some excursions to the past. Cass, PJ, Dickie, and Imelda all have their own distinctive voices that rise and fall as the pages turn before coming back together in the final chapters. Really, Murray's writing, voice, and style for each character is what makes this novel such a success for me. Indeed, though most of the chapters are done in a regular style, Imelda's middle-of-the-book section unfolds in a punctuation-less, stream-of-consciousness 100+ page extravaganza. I normally hate this type of thing, but I found it worked well with Imelda's frame of mind and embodied her consciousness fairly well. I can't say I totally understand what Murray's intentions were with sentences all blending into one another, but it did end up making me feel the creeping pressures and stresses upon our poor matriarch. Nonetheless, Murray treats each of these characters as real people with deficits, faults, and the inability to communicate with the ones who love them most. Herein lies the rub for me. In a novel of overly smooth coincidences, I couldn't help but wanting to scream at the characters. SPEAK TO ONE ANOTHER! There are so many missed opportunities between the characters where a bridge could have been built instead of another barrier between them. Murray certainly earns this through vivid descriptions of the characters' internal lives, but I found it oppressively frustrating in certain stretches of the book. Especially since so many of the struggles faced by the leads are shared between them, if not in actuality then at least in spirit. It makes for a compelling narrative but, guys, there's got to be at least one therapist kicking around to help everyone through this. Overall, I loved The Bee Sting. I rather liked it more at the start than at the end, but I could see lots of folks feeling the opposite way. For anyone looking for a Franzen-like family drama with much more wit and humour, you could do a lot worse than Murray's latest. I have the feeling that this will be a novel to which I return in the future and that the entire reading would be altered by knowing the ending. I'm pretty into a novel with that kind of depth, and I think lots of you will be too.

3.5 stars I am trying to collect my thoughts on what to think of this book. Till about page 600 I was surely leaning towards a three star rating. Though the book was brilliantly crafted, it just wasn’t for me. But in the end something finally clicked. Last fifty pages or so changed my opinion. This is the story about a family, and about how one collective financial struggle unearths their personal traumas and toils. How each of them are oblivious of the other one’s internal ruckus. It’s about ghosts of the past, present and future. The narrative structure was very unique. Initially it starts with each individual section focused from the second person point of view of each family member. Then there’s a section with small chapters on similar point of views of the family members. In the end there is a play like structure where compactly in one setting each family member’s point of view is shown. This way we really got to know each member of the Barnes family. The characters were brilliantly formed. It made those people very real, to an extent that after the book finished I just sat still and wondered what happened to those people later on. What happened to their psychology later on! They are complex individuals. The youngest child, through his innocence is trying to make sense of the world. The elder child is trying to force her way into a different world. The parents have their own struggles. They have traumas and ghosts of their past that resurface and affect their present life. They want to break those shackles but those are too strongly tied. One will not necessarily like the characters but they are definitely well written. Overall, it was the ending that turned the opinion of this book for me. It was definitely a long book which I sometimes felt was unnecessary and some sections very difficult to read through and not just abandon. But the ending definitely made me realize how important it was to build up the characters to give a background and reason to their choices. The book was heartbreaking. When it comes to my overall thoughts on this book, in my honest opinion I feel there would not necessarily be something missed out if this book is not read. But if you do read it, it might be rewarding and would make you think.

It's closer to 4.5 for me but that was really an impressive reading experience. The storyline is heavy, it is a tragicomedy of a slowly disintegrating Irish family that has been piling lies on top of lies for forever. But it is also so exquisitely written I found it really difficult not to feel for these troubled characters. I also liked the different perspectives from which the story is written, we slowly discover layers underneath the layers of the problems that the family of Barnes has been dealing with for the past years. I was surprised, stunned, overwhelmed, saddened, worried, anxious and laughing out loud from sheer disbelief going through the pages of this novel. It totally consumed me and I will certainly come back to it in my thoughts for the weeks to come. Now shortlisted for the Booker prize, I am very curious if it is going to be this year's winner.

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2025 Usually, I'm not much into SciFi and short stories, but this collection of interconnected tales describing the last humans fighting extinction is intriguing: The laconic tone together with the eerie, brooding atmosphere makes for an unsettling, engaging read. In the world described, humans have been separated into a number of regions and largely isolated from one another, so the coordinating forces, represented by enforcers called watchers, could test out what the most suitable way to ensure reproduction and thus survival could be. In some regions, men are traveling around to reproduce with multiple women, as the latter largely outnumber the males. In other regions, humans are produced in factories, most of them not from human material, but from animal matter. Elsewhere, humans have been cross-bred with plants, people merge with AI, they have three eyes and no nose, some watchers and women working as mothers are clones, one region produces kids with supernatural abilities etc.pp. - you get the idea. Nothing here is plausible or particularly consistent, plot holes abound: How exactly were human memory and history partially erased? What about the old world and the current surroundings in which these people live, which are hardly a factor? Why do people submit to the watchers although they seem to greatly outnumber them? This is not some realist speculative fiction; rather, it's a highly metaphorical philosophical experiment pondering what it means to be human, and at what point the characters we encounter might stop being human and evolve into something different. Fourteen stories add little pieces to the overall mosaic, jumping in perspective, place and time. But while the whole thing is innovative and mostly captivating, there are of course some stronger and some weaker stories, plus the basic idea does not carry over fourteen individual texts that are largely driven by world-building and vibes, not plot. Still, I applaud how daring the project is, and how coolly it is executed.

I never thought that humans might naturally extinct; but equally, I am pretty sure that dinosaurs did not expect that either and yet it happened. If you think that our evolution will at some point cease and humans will disappear, what would you like the other species remaining after ourselves, to remember us for? What constitutes humanity for you? “Under the Eye of the Big Bird” by Hiromi Kawakami is set on a distant future where humans are on the verge of extinction. Biological engineering and cloning has evolved and people are produced of animal cells while they also possess abilities that were previously unknown to our race, like photosynthesis. The survival of humanity relies on the interbreeding of those new humans that are under the careful watch of the Mothers, a group of beings whose role is unknown until the last few chapters of the book. Kawakami writes beautifully and gives us a narrative that is full of symbolism and allegory. A profound philosophical insight on intelligence and consciousness. The final chapters are gorgeous and gladly shifted from the fragmented storytelling of the first 2/3 of the book. Friendly advice: read it quickly as this will hopefully ease your frustration on those parts of the book that don’t make completely sense; because at the end everything makes sense and the book becomes more than just a warning; it acts as a call to reimagine how we want to evolve as a species, not only with the strict biological sense, but also morally, emotionally and spiritually. The big question that remains to be answered in the last few pages of the book is can humans change before it is too late? Or will we, like other species before us, become a footnote in earth’s infinite history? This is a book about humanity and existence. The deeper meaning of what it means to be human. Love, curiosity for learning, free thinking and belonging. About the desire to see what is there out in the world and the responsibility of making decisions. Predictions, prophecies and miracles. Faith and our disappearing thoughts. Being different and special. About the burden of our emotions. Our triumphs and flaws as a species. Losing trust on humankind. Violence, rebellion and control. It is also a story about extinction and falling civilizations. The cycle of life and death that is happening because it is meant to. Reproduction and low popular density. What defines life and the interaction between genes and environment. In addition, it is a book about AI and its general applicability and implications. The technological forces that shape us. Human intelligence, perception and the idea that our minds are infinite. The possibility of AI overpassing humans and taking over societies as a potential inheritor of the earth. Most of all though, this is a book about evolution and our capacity to change. Adaptability and innovation. Individuality and universality. Transformation and continuity. Our place in the grand scheme of existence. Making peace with our own decline and the hope of saving humanity. The fact that we are creatures intelligent enough to shape our world, but perhaps not wise enough to survive it. This is a 4-4.5/5 for me! Why should you read “Under the Eye of the Big Bird”? Because it will make you contemplate how complicated human beings are through the wonder of evolution. Because you will reflect on our inability to transform and our fear/jealousy of someone’s superiority. Because it will help you see more clearly what it means to be alive and what makes us humans. Because it will deliver to you an urgent message on human extinction and make you confront this possibility deeply and with honesty. Because you will understand that time feels different to each one of us and normal does not exist as everybody’s normal is different from that of others. Because you will realise that even though love and hate look like opposites, they are never neatly separated inside people, and they always mix together and melt into each other. Because it will offer you a unique perspective on AI and its implications for humanity. Favourite quotes: “Things that live are things that die. In time”. “What’s known can’t be forgotten, but what’s never been seen can’t be imagined”. “If you wanna concern yourself with humanity, you can start with being concerned about yourself”. “This place is always changing, but even change stops being change when you get used to it”. “You’re a very human human. You create things, and you destroy more than you create”.

An imaginative and disquieting take on the future of humanity. An entrancing read. This was a fascinating read. In a world where humanity is nearing extinction, humans reform into small societies across the globe in a bid to survive, while mysterious and potentially malevolent forces guide them. The timeline is purposely vague and disorienting, with hundreds or thousands of years passing from one chapter to the next. The aim is to see the broader strokes of the survival effort, but it kept me from fully connecting with any single character or society. While the pieces never fully clicked into place for me, I enjoyed the entire ride. Kawakami’s writing (via Asa Yoneda’s translation) is quite moving as it conveys a subtle beauty to the remade world. Fans of Sequoia Nagamatsu’s How High We Go in the Dark will surely find familiarity in form and function here. My thanks to the publisher and Edelweiss for an advanced reader copy in exchange for an honest review. Blog | Twitter | Instagram

This story is an absolute fever dream. Telling the story of the earth towards it's potential end through a series of interconnected stories, we get a picture of clones, artificial intelligence and psychic abilities, and the story leaves us to try and piece what is happening together. I really enjoyed this, although it could be a little vague at times I felt the characters shone through, and were memorable. There's a POV switch each chapter, and I enjoyed my time with each, while looking forward to the new piece of the story that the next would bring me.

This novel of interconnected short science fiction stories ultimately forms a satisfying whole. Most stories - set in a distant future where a system has been set up to avoid humanity's extinction - are warm and beautiful, but sufficiently incomplete and different from each other in time and place to create an intriguing puzzle. I am not a big SF-reader but enjoyed it quite a lot. It zooms out and ponders humanity from a great distance, but at the same time it keeps the stories quite small.

 “We were supposed to be so much more than this”, but “[as] a species we were like an octopus trying to survive by eating its own limbs. And while we all saw the fatal error we were making, no one stepped forward with a decisive solution.”

a layered, complex, dystopian collection of interconnected short stories about the human race being near extinction. this book was so discomforting but in a way that is necessary at this point in time. it requires you to pay attention in order to make connections between the stories and to understand the way the planet changes throughout the course of the book, and because of that i think i’d get a lot out of a reread eventually. i definitely see why this one was shortlisted for the international booker - so many poignant observations about how humans treat each other, our differences, technology, and the planet. i think i’ll be teasing apart my feelings about this one for a while. the style was very readable, but it was still a difficult read because of the content. i can’t necessarily pick a favorite story, but i do appreciate how the final story wrapped things up. i think if you enjoyed the employees by olga ravn or i who have never known men by jacqueline harpman, this is definitely one to check out!

A profoundly vague, mysterious exploration on the future of humankind & what makes us human. Under The Eye of The Big Bird by Hiromi Kawakami, wonderfully translated by Asa Yoneda was a standout in a scifi realm like no others. Its both fascinating & equally frustrating at parts, slow, yet moving in some, Kawakami crafted an intricate look on humans on brink of extinction with focus on scientific, genetic makeup, visions of humanity, groups breeding in isolation to create new surviving species. The interconnected 14 short stories wildly varies from each other in this puzzling existence linked to form a fantastical utopia. The stories were told in interesting odd narratives but at the core its the perseverance of evolution to keep humans alive & strive in the new world Each chapters were a maze of unknowns with clever execution of narratives from first POV, second POV, and 3rd POV. It introduced to you to the world of interbreeding communities of beings and species with animals genes, the cloning of one person to many others clones as me and me, creation of humans with supernatural or uncanny abilities of foreseeing the future, performing miracles, of a child who want to keep on dancing, a new species that able to live by photosynthesise, all of these groups of humans were separated into colony and scattered all over the world & observed by the watcher. They are all were taken care of by the mothers & once in a while by the great mothers. Its wonderfully bizarre, enrapturing, meticulously delicate in nature of how humans evolved in terms of technology & the ever growing AI but in the end, its also the humankind's greed, destructive traits that brought near extinction & destroyed our world. We moved forward, only to get backward with the advanced climate change, conflicts, death & slowly vanishing in the face of end of the world. This was a melancholic read of what we can expect of a bleak future awaiting us yet a powerful reminder of what we can try to change even if its small & insignificant. Shortlisted for Booker Prize, I get the hype but reading this does takes time for me to push to the end. Its a book that need you to be in a proper space to fully appreciate it & by the end, I was pleasantly surprised by how it impact my perception. Thank you to Definitely Books for review copy

4 1/2 stars, rtc but this may be my favourite from the shortlist so far!!

It's the future and humanity is imperiled, almost extinct. Here and there are small human settlements. New humans, in some places, are grown in factories using the DNA of animals. Mothers watch over new humans sometimes. And humans have developed new abilities sometimes. It's a novel story filled with surprise and revelations, but it's emotionally cold. That's my takeaway from this book.

Bookies’ Favourite is your go-to book club podcast for literary award shortlists. Currently reading our way through the International Booker Prize 2025! We have finished our second book! Our aggregate star rating for Under the Eye of the Big Bird is 3 1/2 stars rounded up to 4 stars for Goodreads Colin, publishing & creative writing expert 3.5 stars Imagine trying to compress the human experience, themes of civilisation’s cyclical nature, the desire and talent for creation and destruction in us all, and the use of artificial intelligence and the roll it could play in our society’s dark future, alongside human-dolphin hybrids, clones of clones, human beings who can photosynthesise instead of eat, warging into birds via mental syncing, species genocide, telepathy, miracle working and curing of the sick, virginal births and many other wackadoodle ideas into one complete and cohesive story. Well, Hirmoi Kawakami has tried to do just that. Taking these sci-fi themes and tropes, Kawakami has explored what our future could look like if depopulation and the destruction of the environment continues. Through a series of interwoven stories, she has created a tapestry of this modern human experience. She guides us through an interpretive story, rich with conversation starters and ripe brainteasers, and though many of the ideas explored are unique and interesting (especially her prophetic musings on our use of A.I.), with this jumping between multiple POVs, each chapter from a new character’s viewpoint, there’s a distinct lack of a ‘human’ to cling to. I understand she’s painting a great mythic brushstroke of human society, but I felt disconnect from most characters led to me finding the work sterile. I enjoyed Kawakami’s writing style, but if there had been a throughline POV, I think this novel would have been more effective. I recommend this novel to those interested in humanity’s future, but I wish I had felt more for these humans and their search for a fix for their plight. A human novel lacking humanity, but still worth a read and a ponder. Aaron, radio journalist 4 stars Each chapter keeps you engaged & curious as you put the puzzle together. The more we learn about this world, the more invested we become. All while seeing ourselves reflected through the characters & themes which tackle the philosophy of humanity. Lucy, Booker longlist devotee 3.5 stars Of all the longlisted books for the International Booker Prize 2025, this was one I was looking forward to the least. I have not read much science fiction in the last few years and the science fiction that I have read has not lived up to the hype. So I was pleasantly surprised when I really enjoyed Under the Eye of the Big Bird. The short stories compounded to form a really deep and satisfying novel about the cyclical nature of humanity. Big Bird starts out showing glimpses of human societies in a world vastly different from our own. These societies vary greatly from each other, which is revealed to have been purposely manufactured in order for humanity to evolve faster. Evolutionary deviations in humankind are believed to be the saviour of our doomed species. Kawakami seems to suggest throughout the book that this is a Sisyphean effort and that humans will always repeat cycles of creation and destruction. Survival at any cost is a major theme throughout the novel. Ultimately humanity is in a Catch 22, if evolution is able to create a version of humanity that can be peaceful and coexist with the earth then it will lose its ability to fight for the life of all humans. Kawakami is posing a bleak dystopia where humanity is locked into a zero-sum game with the earth, and it cannot win, to win would be to no longer be human. I found the role AI played in the novel refreshing. instead of an overarching villain, AI was a force that’s motives were hard to pin down. The writing varied between chapters, this gave each different strand or era of humanity a more realistic and individual feel. This worked particularly well in the chapters highlighting the relationships between humans within the communities and this really elevated the at times sterile writing. I found the writing extremely jarring in the chapter about people who photosynthesize. An interview where you do not have the questions from the interviewer feels clunky. It took away from what would have been an interesting chapter. I felt the book dipped a bit at the end. Chapter thirteen outlined the entire plot of the novel, I hate over-explanation. The final chapter introduced too many new concepts and felt too rushed. I gave this book three and half stars out of five, due to some of the writing issues highlighted above. Although I enjoyed the interlinked short stories and think this was one of the best ways to tell a story of this nature. Ultimately it makes the book more forgettable than if it had been a narrative from one character's point of view. Hannah, bookworm 3 stars

This is the second of the shortlisted International Booker Prize books that I have read. I have to say, I quite enjoyed this, too - though I did set it aside for a week while I was busy obsessing over Formula 1 and Rimowa luggage. This novel is comprised of interconnected short stories - covering different times, places, and perspectives - that tells the story of the demise of humanity. Some of the main characters are reoccurring but for the most part, each chapter offers a fresh perspective into the world that Kawakami has created. This is quite a confusing book in the beginning, but as it progresses, the chips fall into place, so to speak. This is definitely one of those books that you can read again and again and gain something new from it each time. Rating: 4 / 5

I loved reading UNDER THE EYE OF THE BIG BIRD by Hiromi Kawakami translated from the Japanese by Asa Yoneda! I was so excited to read this since I loved her other book People From My Neighbourhood. This novel is so weird and good. It’s a speculative fiction where humans are on the brink of extinction and children are made from rabbits and dolphins and there are mutants and aliens. I loved the way this novel is told in interconnected vignettes and focuses on the connection and humanity in a ravaged world. A complex and fascinating novel!! I can’t wait to read more by this author! Thank you to the publisher for my copy!

In the far future, as humanity nears extinction, how can we be saved? If humans created AI, what happens when AI “births” humans in return? Really funky, experimental dystopia. I loved that each chapter feels like a standalone short story with a different main character, but they all piece together to form one big-picture narrative. Some of the stories are pleasant and intriguing, others are pure wtf material. I liked it a lot!

This is a novel the way Rejection is a novel - that is, it's easy to pick it apart as isolated short stories but they are actually telling one, cohesive narrative that continues to unfold throughout the book. This speculative fiction imagines what might happen over hundreds/thousands of years if humans are on the brink of extinction. How will they use technology to augment their population? How will a dwindling population deal with childrearing, communication with foreign entities, competition, and faith? It's largely a story about the essence of humanity - how far we can stray from conventional ideas of what is human and how much might remain the same. Those who like this book should definitely read Murata's forthcoming Vanishing World, another speculative fiction written in mid-2010s Japan and recently translated that confronts our declining birth rate.

3.5 speculative fiction set in a future where humans are almost extinct. it exists somewhere between a novel and short stories, which was an interesting format to read. it’s also got this subtlety to it- it feels kind of cosy, at times? at first when i started reading this i was kind of like “what’s going on?” but you start to piece it together as more is revealed to you, bit by bit. many aspects of society are stripped away by the survivors, and it’s done intentionally to really sort of highlight some of the key features of humanity. it also weaves these ideas of evolution and genetic isolation in, which i thought was done quite well. overall i really enjoyed this and i think it would benefit from a second read some time.

Argh, 3.5 rounded up cause the first 80% was mind-blowing but WHY did we have to have a close ending? There’s nothing I hate more. Ok, this came out over 10 years ago in Japan so I forgive her, but it would have been exponentially better if it had just stayed a fever dream with a lot less answers. I especially hate when books have a final chapter fully dedicated to answering all questions - way to cheapen a perfectly fine book 🤢 The books that are coming out nowadays in Japan and get criticized by the West for “not doing enough” or “being too short” are actually my definition of perfection, cause I don’t want to be told everything. This would have also been better had it been 100 pages shorter. A missed opportunity, but I’ll blame it to the fact that it’s an old book. Curious to read strange weather in Tokyo still

devoured this in one go and that's how i recommend everyone read it because it is speculative fiction in one of its best forms. you will want to have everything fresh in your mind i promise. it is confusing in the beginning, maybe a bit boring (not to me, but i saw a few reviews say it was harder to get into), but your jaw will gradually lower to the floor as you continue reading. you'll get it, and once you get it, you'll love it. this is one story told in a non-linear way, i had to go back and check it wasn't a short story collection at first. the stories are all connected though, it's the same story, just told at different parts, you'll understand if you read it i promise. so so so worth it. rereading this is already something i'm looking forward to 4.75

This was a very interesting take on what might happen in the future when human beings end up facing the threat of extinction. It is entirely of their own doing and not because of some external uncontrollable natural disaster. As Mankind drove itself into the ground, a sentient AI entity came into being and tried to help keep the human race alive (by making clones and the such). The way this story is told is that the reader pieces together this context over the course of book. Each chapter is told by different characters and the timeline is loosely chronological. When I was reading, I was struck by the focus on (or rather the very loud absence of) what we consider to be normal ideas of love/hate, family structures and relationships, motherhood, and childbearing/rearing. This author in particular likes to take the social norms that we take for granted and throw them out the window. In sum, the plan of two ancient humans was put into place—the remaining human beings were sorted into isolated communities, watched over by a lineage of GMO clones called Watchers, with the express purpose of triggering evolution. This also had the side effect of triggering mutations so there are kids who can read minds or control fire, kind of like in Wyndham’s ‘The Chrysalids.’ These kids are often rejected from their communities so they go and live with the Mothers, who are a kind of cyborg hosting the AI entity. Despite their best efforts, it seems that human beings aren’t meant to last, but at least the last humans were able to be (like Nüwa!) and create a new species.

Good stuff! A series of interconnected short stories painting a picture of a future where humanity has caused its own downfall. The author posits that despite our best efforts, we cannot overcome our instincts for conflict and egocentrism. Well-written and has some interesting sci-fi ideas, it feels very much like it is in conversation with current times. Reminded me a bit of Shinsekai Yori in its vision of a future. I would recommend it but beware it's a bit of a Debbie downer.

The best and only review I could find regarding this Finalist for the 2025 International Booker Award. It captures the essence of this thought-provoking novel so incredibly well that it's worth repeating here. All glory goes to the author, the translator and the book reviewer herein. “To Survive in the Future, Humanity May Need to Become Less Human,” by Hilary Leichter Hilary Leichter is the author of the novels “Temporary” and “Terrace Story.” (New York Times Sept. 3, 2024) In Hiromi Kawakami’s new science fiction novel, Earth is a place of surveillance, isolation and dread. The characters (and clones) are doing their best to stay alive. People are produced in factories. Communities exist in isolation, spread out from one another by design. Children are raised by groups of mothers, a network of caretakers who may not be altogether human. One narrator seems closer to vegetable than animal. A man can project his mind onto the brain of a bird, but the technology for space travel is long lost. Earth is a place of dread, and humanity might be done for. The problem, summarized by one character: “how to preserve even a slim chance that we might someday thrive on this planet again.” This is the world of Hiromi Kawakami’s haunting latest, “Under the Eye of the Big Bird,” a novel of connected vignettes all set in a terrible far future. But I started to think of it more as an assemblage of narrative Punnett squares, the details and characters of each section receding or recurring, vying for the dominant plot. It’s less experimental fiction and more fiction on the human experiment — what kinds of new approaches to mating, community and family will allow people to survive? It’s not quite correct to call all the characters “people,” and that’s part of the point. To continue living, this book suggests, people might need to become something else. In the first chapter, “Keepsakes,” the world’s only remaining humans are manufactured from animals, but “none of us is allowed to know what our animal of origin is.” When someone dies, the surviving spouse can collect an “analogous bone,” shaped like the miniature skull of their loved one’s animal ancestor. (The narrator’s own dead husband was derived from a dolphin.) In “Changes,” certain people have evolved to possess new and extraordinary abilities. The young narrator, Kyla, is a “scanner,” someone who can read minds. When she scans Noah, the boy with whom she will eventually start a family, she finds that his “despair” is “the color of an amethyst.” Kyla and Noah are human, but nevertheless have something mineral about them, even if only metaphorically. Translated from the Japanese by Asa Yoneda, Kawakami’s prose is often clinically deadpan, but she also finds humor and warmth in the puzzles of existence and extinction. A scene between two clones leads to the wonderfully daffy sentence, “I asked me, but I shook my head.” One narrator describes a dwindling population in terms of “head count,” and another accuses humankind of “racking up more and more history.” It’s the kind of playful language that makes the end of the world sound like a field trip gone awry. Analogous bones manage to be a bit terrifying while retaining the texture of prizes at the bottom of a cereal box. Not quite a world through rose-colored glasses, but the despair is amethyst. If a timeline coalesces, it follows the work of the “watchers,” a group of clones raised by the aforementioned mothers to travel by hovercraft and “maintain continuous observation over the population.” One chapter clocks in at 5,000 years ahead of our present moment. It’s all the future, but which parts are closer than they appear? “Under the Eye of the Big Bird” bucks linear narrative, constantly swerving and doubling back — a descendant might resemble an ancestor, until we realize the chapters have been marching in a different direction. In “Roaming,” a watcher discovers a community so deeply unfamiliar, so far from his idea of humanity, he experiences disgust: “Some kind of preverbal, instinctive rejection dawned in me the more I observed them.” It’s a moving reversal; this community has already been introduced in the prior chapter, through the experiences of a young girl named “8 of 15” whose strange world is presented with clarity, curiosity and affection. The reader, too, has watched these characters living, falling in love, wondering about the meaning of hate. In Kawakami’s soupy chronology, neither evolution nor extinction is linear. We might become what we’ve already been, and we might have already been what we can’t imagine becoming.

เอาจริงๆ เล่มนี้อ่านไม่สนุกเท่าไรหรอก งงด้วย ด้วยวิธีการเล่าที่เป็นแบบ folklore และไม่ปะติดปะต่อ กระโดดข้ามไทม์ไลน์ไปมา มีการเล่าจากอนาคตสู่อดีต ทำให้คนอ่านรู้สึกไม่มีอารมณ์กับเนื้อเรื่อง แต่เป็นความจงใจของผู้เขียนหรือไม่ที่ตั้งใจให้คนอ่านรู้สึกเหมือนโดนผลักออกจากเนื้อเรื่องมากกว่าที่อยากให้คนอ่านมีส่วนร่วม เพราะในด้านเนื้อหานั้นตั้งคำถามเกี่ยวกับ วิวัฒนาการ, ความเป็นมนุษย์, และขอบเขตของการควบคุม สะท้อนถึงแนวคิดที่ลึกซึ้งเกี่ยวกับอนาคตของมนุษย์และสิ่งที่อาจเกิดขึ้นเมื่อวิวัฒนาการของเราถูกกำหนดโดยบางสิ่งที่เหนือกว่าตัวเราเอง (Ai problematic) จะว่ามันเป็น sci-fi ก็ใช่ แต่การนำเสนอมันเป็นเหมือนตำนานพื้นเมือง เล่าต่อๆ กันมา ก็แต่ก่อนเขาว่าอย่างนู้นอย่างนี้ คนในเรื่องมาและจากไป ไม่มีจุดศูนย์กลางที่ชัดเจน แต่ละบท (เหมือนแต่ละเรื่อง) ไม่มีจุดเริ่มต้นหรือจุดจบที่ชัดเจน เป็นเพียง “เรื่องเล่า” ที่ค่อย ๆ เผยให้เห็น ทั้งอาจจะเกี่ยวและไม่เกี่ยวกันทันที (เพราะงั้นอ่านตอนแรกเลยงงๆ แต่พออ่านไปเรื่อยๆ จะเห็นภาพรวมมากขึ้น) ซึ่งเราคิดว่าวิธีนี้ทำให้เกิดความรู้สึกว่า "มนุษย์เป็นเพียงเศษเสี้ยวของเรื่องราวอันยาวนานของวิวัฒนาการ” เราแทบจะไม่เข้าใจระบบหรือกลไกในเรื่องเลย ปกติ sci-fi เขาว่ากันว่าจะมี world setting ที่ยาวในช่วงต้นเพื่อให้เข้าใจว่าโลกกำลังเป็นแบบไหน แต่ Under the Eye of the Big Bird ไม่ได้มี world setting ให้ แต่โยนเราใส่โลกใบนี้เลย คิดว่าตรงนี้สื่อในแง่ที่ว่าเหมือนเวลาเราเกิดมาก็ไม่ได้มีใครมาอธิบายหรอกว่ากลไกของโลกดำเนินไปแบบนี้ เราแค่ค่อยๆ ใช้ชีวิตแบบที่มันเป็นไป แล้วค่อยๆ เสาะหาที่ทางของตัวเองบนโลกใบนี้ เราไม่สามารถระบุระยะเวลาแน่ชัดในเรื่องได้ว่า มันเกิดขึ้นภายในระยะเวลาเท่าไร รู้แค่ว่ายาวนานมากจนมันเป็นวิวัฒนการของมนุษย์ กินเวลาหลายชั่วอายุคน ซึ่งมันทำให้เราเห็นภาพชัดถึงความย้อนแย้งของวิวัฒนาการ และคำถามสำคัญที่เราคิดมาตลอดคือ อะไรคือขีดจำกัดของ “ความเป็นมนุษย์”? มนุษย์คืออะไรกันแน่ สิ่งประกอบร่างสร้างเป็นมนุษย์ เป็นสังคม และกลายเป็นชุมชนคืออะไรกันแน่ Honestly, this book isn’t exactly fun to read—it’s confusing, too. The storytelling follows a folklore-inspired, fragmented structure, jumping across timelines, shifting between the future and the past, making it difficult to form an emotional connection with the narrative. But was this the author’s intention? Did they deliberately push the reader out of the story rather than encouraging engagement? The content itself raises questions about evolution, the nature of humanity, and the boundaries of control, reflecting deep ideas about the future of humankind and what happens when our evolution is dictated by something beyond ourselves (AI problematic). You could call it sci-fi, sure, but the way it’s presented feels more like a myth or an oral tradition, a story passed down over time. It’s like, once upon a time, they said this, they said that. Characters come and go, with no clear focal point. Each chapter (which feels like its own separate tale) lacks a distinct beginning or end—it’s just fragments of a larger story, sometimes interconnected, sometimes not. (That’s why the first part of the book feels disorienting, but as you keep reading, you start seeing the bigger picture.) I think this approach makes the reader feel like humans are merely a small fragment of the vast timeline of evolution. I could barely grasp the systems or mechanisms within this world. Typically, sci-fi novels tend to have an extensive world-building section at the beginning, helping readers understand the rules of the world. But #UndertheEyeoftheBigBird doesn’t do that. Instead, it throws us directly into its world, which I think serves as a metaphor—just like when we’re born, no one explains to us how the world works. We simply live, adapting to whatever it is, gradually figuring out our place in it. There’s no clear indication of how much time passes in the story. All we know is that it spans an incredibly long period—long enough to depict human evolution across multiple generations. This effectively highlights the paradox of evolution. And the question that lingers in my mind is: What are the limits of “being human”? What exactly makes a human? What constructs a society, a community, an identity?

I’ve decided to read this book after finishing The Thirty Years War. This was also nominated for this year Booker International. Maybe unusually, but I knew about Tyll Ulenspiegel since my school days. Bizarrely, the legends about him were included in our school’s program of foreign literature. We’ve studied an extract from The Legend of the Glorious Adventures of Tyl Ulenspiegel in the Land of Flanders & Elsewhere. Though it is fair to say i do not remember much from those days. This novel was written in a 1867 novel by the Belgian author Charles De Coster. De Coster took the hero of the German folklore tales, gave him the girlfriend Nelle and a sidekick friend and transferred him into the reality of the late 16th century’s Germany and Flanders. He kept his trickster spirit, made him a witness of the war and added his role as freedom fighter against the Spanish oppression in the 80 years war in Flanders and the Netherlands. It seems, Kehlerman has done the same trick, but placed his hero in Germany a few decades later. I’ve fetched De Coster’s book just now and it seems very good. It is a fragmentary picaresque tale with the elements of contemporary philosophy, a murder mystery and the supernatural. For whatever reason, it was very popular in the Soviet Union. There is a beautiful Soviet movie (1976) modelled on this novel and the paintings by Bruegel the Elder. Here is the short beginning sequence: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P5BFD.... There is also an opera based upon this book. So all in all, I was very much intrigued to pick up “Tyll”. And, it seems, Kehlman has borrowed quite a few things from De Coster. He gave Tyll a friend Nelle. Tyll’s father was prosecuted by the Inquisition in both books. Tyll is buried alive in both books as well. The idea of Tyll thinking about immortality and the meaning of the time seems to be present in both books as well. The historical period and the context of two novels are closely comparable as well. Without fully reading De Coster’s book, I am not sure how I feel about the similarities between the two stories. Generally, I am not a big fun of the secondary retelling. But it seems, Kehlmann has changed quite a lot for his book to stand on its own. For me the strongest and original side of this novel was its atmosphere, its lyrical prose. And of course Tyll. He does not come across as a trickster, more like a person caught up in his own time and desperately trying to escape by constantly hopelessly moving. “He tells himself often, life simply leads you somewhere or other - if you weren’t here, you would be elsewhere, and everything would be just as strange.”. There is a lot charm and melancholy in him as a character. And when he is present on the page, the novel comes alive. But the magic is disappearing when he is not there though. It might be just me, but I thought purely historical elements of the book were not its strongest. Kehlmann is trying to be accurate with the history. And it is probably good. But I’ve just read a book of the proper narrative history of the same events. So I knew where he was going with his characters - real historical figures. And his story just dragged for me a bit. There was no particular subtlety in suing historical information. It seemed some stuff was incorporated just to show his research. For example, “Pour Dieu et pour elle” was a motto of Prince of Braunschweig when he was going into the battles. “Elle” there was devoted to Elizabeth, the wife of Friedrich, the Winter King who allegedly was the main culprit of starting the war. It is mentioned in the novel without a good reason of being there as far I am concerned. Elizabeth and Friedrich are in the cast of Kehlmann’s main characters. He uses the tool of telling the story from inside of their heads. And while Friedrich part was not too bad, it did not always work for Elizabeth. I could not imagine flesh and blood women who has lost everything thinking like she did in the novel. Maybe with the exception of this phrase: “She squinted into the snowstorm. It had grown cold. Here I sit, she thought, Queen of Bohemia, Electress of the Palatinate, daughter of the King of England, niece of the King of Denmark, grandniece of the Virgin Queen of Scots, and can’t afford firewood.” The novel was much stronger while appealing to the universal timeless themes, I thought. For example, about our choices in life: “There are only a few moments when two things are possible, one path as much as another. Only a few moments when you can decide.” Or about the war: “The war didn’t seem to him something manmade, but like wind and rain, like sea, like the high cliffs of Sicily that he had seen as a child.” I enjoyed quite a bit his prose. There were a few amazing scenes. In one of them, Tyll has made people throwing their shoes into the air. The another was the scene of a battle from a civilian point of view. It reminded me the scene from War and Peace with Pierre Bezukhov grasping for meaning of it all. Reading this novel reminded me of Laurus. They both possess a strong main character trying to live their life through hard times. But while Tyll here thrives for illusive immortality, Laurus there was using his supernatural gifts to heal. There is a lot to like and a lot to question in this novel. Overall I would not recommend to read the real history before plunging into this book as i did. But even though I found a lot to think about and enjoy. 3.5 rounded up

I was delighted with a group of Goodreads friends to be selected by the Reading Agency to read this book as part of their shadowing of the International Booker Shortlist. We will meet in June as a group to discuss the book. Overall this in my view by far the most enjoyable on the shortlist, but not without its flaws. It reminded me a lot of Neal Stephenson's wonderful Baroque Trilogy - a lot more focused and tightly written than Stephenson, but lacking Stephenson's sheer imagination and hugely deficient compared to Stephenson's ability to synthesise historic ideas and the way in which they birthed our current world in areas like money, politics, IT. See here for a great write up of that trilogy which also refers to the Winter Queen (and her seminal role there). https://quillette.com/2017/10/04/neal... REPEATED THEMES EXPLORED Alternative Accounts of the same issue - Elizabeth and Frederick's first night together (including the petals) - Wolkenstein's account of his own travels - the real version and the told version (contrasted at length through the whole chapter of his trip to the Battle of Zusmarshausen) - Elizabeth and Frederick on why he took the throne (this is one with genuine historical resonance) - Nele and Tyll on who killed the Pirmin (or - a third alternative - was this assisted suicide) - Through torture Tyll’s father changes his own account and convinces himself he is guilty - Equivocation (the Porter scene in Macbeth inspired by Tesimond) Grandchildren and Great-Grandchildren: and the stories you tell them - Martha knows she will tell her grandchildren about Tyll (but she never has them) - Nela precisely does not tell her grandchildren about knowing and travelling with Tyll - Wolkenstein tells Elizabeth he will in future tell his grandchildren that he met the Winter Queen - Wolkenstein does not say the same to (or of) Tyll - although they meet - Wolkenstein when writing his account 50 years later falsely dramatizes his story to include a child-eating wolf as he is influenced by now having grandchildren Alternative lives (including involving marriage to a different person) - Martha wanting to stay in the village, be married and so not fleeing with Tyll - but this future never happening as a result of her choice (after the village is raided) - Claus contemplating the alternatives of being hung or attempting a magical escape, fleeing and starting anew - and deciding it's a lot simpler to be hung - Tyll not wanting to be a farmhand and so fleeing his village - Nele not wanting to marry a Steger son and so fleeing with Tyll - Tyll and Nele abandoning Gottfried for Pirmin - Nele not marrying Tyll - Nele choosing to take the offer of marriage and leave Tyll - Elizabeth remembering how during the Gunpowder Plot, she fled London (fearing her father dead) to get away from conspirators searching for her to put her on the throne as a puppet Catholic ruler (something she found quite attractive!) - Elizabeth thinking of her father's plans for her to marry Gustav Adolf (who later humiliates Frederick) - Elizabeth imagining her older son becoming King at the request of the Parliamentary Party (in fact we know he ends up falling out with the family after - to his and their shock - Elizaebth's brother is executed) - The Thumbling marrying princess in the story told by Nele as queried by Tyll - And of course the whole book is a deliberate reworking of Charles de Coster’s ‘The Legend of Thyl Ulenspiegel and Lamme Goedzak” and of Thyl’s relationship there with Nele. See http://orca.cf.ac.uk/125217/1/16.pdf Shakespeare Plays - Midsummer Night's Dream (the donkey head scene) - Romeo and Juliet (part of Tyll's play in the first chapter and what causes Elizabeth to take Tyll as her fool) - Macbeth (her father's remarks to Shakespeare on the untested unity of England and Scotland and his fear of witches; Shakespeare's later presentation of the pray - one Elizabeth thought the best she had seen but one she had never seen again, the direct link of Tesimond to the play via the Porter/equivocator scene - https://www.bl.uk/collection-items/th...) - The Tempest (Elizabeth reflects she would never show the same mercy to Wallerstein as Propsero did to his enemies). And of course in the play she watches Shakespeare himself plays the part. - Hamlet (Elizabeth proud of the way she offers comfort to Shakespeare on the death of Hamnet - a lovely link to a Women's Prize shortlisted book) Development of German Art Elizabeth has scathing views on German literature, plays and poetry - partly written tongue in cheek by the author and partly a genuine exploration of its infancy at the time of this book compared to the way in which English art was developing. Martin Opitz - Elizabeth tries him and finds him unreadable, she later discusses with Wolkenstein and both laugh at the idea of reading him. Wolkenstein sets out his aim to write his life story in German, later we find he does and relies (to describe a battle scene he no longer knows how to describe on an account by another author - Grimmelshausen (see below) - who in turn took his description of a battle he had actually witnessed from a book by an English author who had never seen a battle - translated by, as it happens, Opitz). Note from Peter Wilson's "Europe's Tragedy" (see below) I discovered that the inspiration for Grimmelshausen was Sir Philip Sidney's "Arcadia" - written in 1590 but the 1630s or so German language version of which was edited, indeed, by Opitz. Paul Fleming - he inspires Wolkenstein (although noted as now dead) - earlier we see him meeting Tyll (and Nele) as part of the dragon chase: before which he discusses his poetry (and writing of it with German) with (a rather baffled at his langague choice) Kircher and Olearius (who reflects that whereas Fleming's poems will soon cease, Kircher's writing will be read for ever) The book refers to Grimmelshausen’s “The Adventures of Simplicus Simplicussimus” - seen by the Romantics as the first authentic German novel, used by them for their reinterpretation of the conflict (source for both: Europe’s Tragedy: A New History of the Thirty Year’s War” by Peter Wilson” and itself a kind of story of a rogue living through the Thirty Year’s War (so similar in concept to “Tyll”. See also above. Music - Kircher's role in music is rather downplayed (and only really covered in the context of his - in modern terms) bizarre dragon quest: but his Musurgia Universalis (which is mentioned in the book) was actually what lead to his indirect immortality as it inspired Bach, Beethoven and Handel. Links to other books Adam Olearius is described as (and historically was) a mathematician and a geographer. Is this a nod to “Measuring the World” which of course was about two characters: a Geographer and a Mathematician. Missing children - Price Rupert: As an English reader its disappointing that one of the most fascinating characters of the Civil War/Inter-regnum/Restoration years is not (as far as I can tell) mentioned in the book at all. I kept hoping to spot him but unlike his two older brothers he does not make it. And this character is relevant to the story - Frederick's naming of his son (born just after the fateful decision to accept the Bohemian Crown which dominates the book) after the only emperor of the Palatine dynasty, was as a crucial sign of his dynastic ambition. - Sophie of Hannover: And perhaps even more disappointing to see no mention of Rupert's sister - her name still fundamental to our entire Hereditary system via the Act of Succession. WEAKNESSES - Historical research appears sketchy/superficial - based on rather clichéd and out of date understanding (infant mortality meant low parent-child attachment, people were drunk much of the time). This is not the same as saying that the book is historically inaccurate - the very act of taking Tyll from previous centuries (and the concentration on unreliable narration of historical events as set out above) make it clear that historical veracity is not the author's aim (in fact quite the opposite). However the author has in interviews made it clear that he was trying to convey thematical aspects of 17th Century mid-Europe as a key part of the novel - and this is where I find the book a little disappointing. - (In complete contrast to Stephenson) his ability to draw lessons for today's world seems faulty. When he originally conceived the book it was to contrast with a world where disease was feared and science mistrusted (in contrast to the modern world) - the contrast seems a little lower now. Also he is on record as saying that when Trump was elected part way through writing Tyll he was shocked: however I think he had failed to see that (a) in a democracy, voters are always prone to voting jester-style populists into power, especially when all parties had converged on a type socially liberal, economically free-market politics run by identikit professional politicians and (b) that in a world where 24/7 news and social media means anyone can play the role of the fool puncturing pretension - that the only politicians likely to succeed are those whose persona makes them effectively impervious to satire/accusations of hypocrisy (and who in fact turn those attacks into an insult to their followers). Similarly I think he has failed to see how irrationality in people and leaders has reappeared in our world (no longer dragons causing plague but 5G towers, a "King" who proclaims that the plague will simply miraculously disappear). Of course the reader can draw these parallels for themselves but in interviews the author makes it clear he is exploring a world very different to our own. And even if you accepted that - it is an extremely Western-European centric view.

High grade historical fiction. Kehlmann has transported Tyll Ulenspiegel of Germanic folklore to the time of the Thirty Years War and utilizes his story to bring to life a truly world-altering conflict. Many of the key players in this war, particularly Elizabeth Stuart, aka The Winter Queen, aka Little Liz, have been largely forgotten today. Kehlmann has brought them back to life with wit, bloodshed, and even a little bit of magic. Great character building and some really impressive scene setting, particularly the last adventure of the Winter King and Tyll’s stint in the shaft of Brno. The translation seems excellent as well. The prose is such that I felt I was reading a work written in English, so props to Mr. Benjamin as well. A strong four stars. A lot of fun but also high quality literature. One of those works that would benefit from a second read. Nice to see it on the long list for the Booker International Prize.

I sometimes find it challenging to read historical novels which concern particular wars or political movements when I don’t have much knowledge of these past events. I like to get fully immersed in a story and it’s hard to do that if I feel like I frequently have to check Wikipedia to understand a historical context or situation. This is why it took me so many years to get into “Wolf Hall”. Daniel Kehlmann’s novel “Tyll” concerns The Thirty Years War, German folklore and other subjects from 1600s central Europe that I have even less knowledge about than the Tudor period! But I didn’t mind that so much because the characters (many of whom are compelled by superstitious beliefs) are so engaging and its story of witch trials and the power struggles of self-entitled monarchs is so compelling. It meant I was completely charmed by the book even if I didn’t fully understand the intricacies of several sections. Also, while this novel begins like a biographical account of Tyll Ulenspiegel, a prankster from numerous German folk tales, it is Elizabeth Stuart, an English noblewoman who was briefly Queen of Bohemia and popularly known as the “Winter Queen”, who emerges as the true hero of the novel. Read my full review of Tyll by Daniel Kehlmann on LonesomeReader

Above us Tyll Ulenspiegel turned, slowly and carelessly — not like someone in danger but like someone looking around with curiosity. He stood with his right foot lengthwise on the rope, his left crosswise, his knees slightly bent and his fists on his hips. And all of us, looking up, suddenly understood what lightness was. We understood what life could be like for someone who really did whatever he wanted, who believed in nothing and obeyed no one; we understood what it would be like to be such a person, and we understood that we would never be such people. Tyll is the very best kind of historical fiction: Using a folkloric German character (the fabled prankster imp, Tyll Ulenspiegel) and transplanting him into a very real, very tragic period that includes the Thirty Years War (apparently 60% of the German population died in that 17th century conflict, mostly from starvation and disease), author Daniel Kehlmann is able to paint a vivid picture of a truly horrifying time and place without making those horrors overly explicit; this is mostly stench and chills and the telling of fairy tales to still an empty belly. The average person had very little freedom — lives were controlled by custom, superstition, fear of marauding armies and the witch-hunting Church — but as a wandering entertainer, this version of Tyll Ulenspiegel was beholden to no man, neither priest nor king, and he could speak truth to power with a wink; and that wink is what makes this history lesson so entertaining. The timeline in Tyll is jumbled — chapters jump around major episodes from Tyll’s life, and in several chapters from the points-of-view of actual historic characters, Tyll doesn’t necessarily appear at all — and from the sentences to the structure, this is a serious and well-constructed work of fiction that amused and bemused me beginning to end. I loved the whole thing. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) Suddenly the dance was over. Gasping for breath, we looked up at the wagon, on which Tyll Ulenspeigel was now standing alone; the two women were nowhere to be seen. He sang a mocking ballad about the poor, stupid Winter King, the Elector Palatine, who had thought he could defeat the Kaiser and accept Prague’s crown from the Protestants, yet his kingship had melted away even before the snow. He sang about the Kaiser too, who was always cold from praying, the little man trembling before the Swedes in the imperial palace in Vienna, and then he sang about the King of Sweden, the Lion of Midnight, strong as a bear, but of what use had it been to him against the bullets in Lützen that took his life like that of any mere soldier, and out was your light, and gone the little royal soul, gone the lion! Tyll Ulenspiegel laughed, and we laughed too, because you couldn’t resist him and because it did us good to remember that these great men were dead and we were still alive. I confess to not knowing anything about the Thirty Years War beforehand, but without lecturing or infodumping, Kehlmann lays out the history of that conflict — how it started, how it played out, how it affected the average person on the ground — in vignettes of how people (commoner or king) lived out their daily lives. In some of my favourite bits, Tyll somehow gets taken on as the official Court Fool for Frederick V and his wife Elizabeth Stuart — briefly the King and Queen of Bohemia, derisively known as the Winter King and Queen for the brevity of their reign — and in this role, Tyll is free to make Falstaffian observations about Their Majesties; fair, since it was the egos of this pair that provoked the war. I especially liked the chapters from Elizabeth’s POV — a royal personage might expect more comforts in life than groats and small beer, but rules of etiquette very much restricted her freedom, too — and I enjoyed her memories of watching the King’s Men perform in London as a girl and meeting with Shakespeare himself; I liked her English disdain (as imagined by a German author) as she dismissed German culture: In German lands real theatre was unknown; there, pitiful players roamed through the rain and screamed and hopped and farted and brawled. This was probably due to the cumbersome language; it was no language for theatre; it was a brew of groans and harsh grunts, it was a language that sounded like someone struggling not to choke, like a cow having a coughing fit, like a man with beer coming out his nose. What was a poet supposed to do with this language? She had given German literature a try, first that Opitz and then someone else, whose name she had forgotten; she could not commit to memory these people who were always named Krautbacher or Engelkrämer or Kargholzsteingrömpl, and when you had grown up with Chaucer, and John Donne had dedicated verses to you — “fair phoenix bride,” he had called her, “and from thine eye all lesser birds will take their jollity” — then even with the utmost politeness you could not bring yourself to find any merit in all this German bleating. Tyll himself — as a tight-rope walker, juggler, ventriloquist, actor, and balladeer — is one of these lowbrow “pitiful players”, but German culture is eventually redeemed by a chance meeting with Paul Fleming (a poet who unapologetically wrote his verses in German), and many years later, at a reception during the peace talks at Westphalia that negotiated the end the Thirty Years War, Elizabeth is stunned by a small chamber group (four violinists, one harpist, and a man with a strange horn) that play an oddly compelling music (that I took to presage the eventual dominance by German composers in symphony and opera; “cat pianos” notwithstanding.) Along the way, we also meet a pair of witch-hunting Jesuits — the actual scholars Oswald Tesimond (lone surviving architect of the Gunpowder Plot that had targeted Elizabeth’s family in England) and Athanasius Kircher (a Da Vinci-like polymath and author of dozens of “major works”) — and as they keep an eye out for dragons (the best proof for the existence of a dragon in any area is the fact that no one has ever claimed to see one there; they are just that crafty), the pair demonstrate the Kafkaesque nature of a witch trial, with zero self-awareness of their own hypocrisies. Just one more oppressive mechanism that the average person has no power to fight back against. And just like we don’t actually see battle, just the war’s effects on the population (the closest we get is the Winter King’s visit to a Swedish army camp, where he is knocked back by the stench and can’t keep his eyes off a particularly horrific sight), we don’t see inside the witch-hunters’ torture chamber, just witness its effects: She is silent. Her lips don’t move, her eyes seem extinguished. She looks like an empty shell, her face a mask that no one is wearing, her arms as if hung wrong at the joints. Better not to think about it, thinks Dr. Kircher, who at the same moment naturally cannot help thinking about what Master Tilman did to those arms to make them hang so wrong. Better not to imagine it. He rubs his eyes and imagines it. But no matter how powerless the peasantry, Tyll and his band of motley players is bound to eventually make an appearance in their village square; and even if it’s Tyll’s donkey, Origenes, who gets to say the words that mock powerful men to their faces, everyone will feel a vicarious twinge of strength. The concept of inserting the fictional Tyll into actual historic drama is ultimately a very powerful one and Kehlmann must be applauded for this feat of engineering; I am looking forward to picking up more from the author.

My video review https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hK1CU...

Picaresque novel set across GERMANY (17th Century) Of course I had heard of Tyll Ulenspiegel (also Till Eulenspiegel), a mythical will-o-the-wisp character who flamboyantly weaves his way through war ravaged regions, lands that we now know as Germany. The novel is set against the backdrop of the Thirty Years’ War, which started in 1618 (and of course went on for 30 years).Some of you may also be familiar with Brecht’s “Mother Courage” which is also set against a similar, starkly evoked background of the 30 Years War. Tyll certainly has a Chaucerian cast of characters, with royalty, the evil miller and the baker’s daughter all making appearances and adding colour and intrigue to the narrative. The very late medieval setting is beautifully evoked (technically we are in the period of the Renaissance but the average inhabitant is still leading a hand-to-mouth existence in very stark circumstances). The rank smells rise from the pages, groats galore are eaten, beer is washed down and lives are lived. It is like observing a touring acting company of yore. I read this on a recent trip to Berlin when I visited a medieval Christmas Market at RAW, Friedrichshain, where there were fire jugglers, braziers and all manner of medieval props, as we supped Glühbier (not Wein) and the notably less medieval drink of warm spiced apple juice with a shot of Amaretto (delicious in case you are wondering!). It’s a must if you are visiting the Christmas Markets in Berlin! This totally enhanced my reading of the novel! Proper literary wanderlust! Can one call this book medieval magical realism? I am not sure, but it will appeal to those who love a bit of magic, chicanery and the appearance of the odd draconologist, all, with a good sense of story. I found it enchanting and entertaining, although it is not my go-to genre.

This is dark, wild, earth shattering, mind spinning, WTH I just read, I need a big break to gather my feelings kind of book! This is quiet dazzling, thought provoking, unique, depressing, apocalyptic, soul crushing dystopian read is not for everyone! I feel like my head can explode at any second after too much pressure, high tension, after reading dark portrait of future with painful mother-daughter’s survival story. Impressive and emotional mother-daughter bounding and heart-wrenching journey they find themselves to test their devoted relationship during the climate change, living in the Wilderness and witnessing the human’s mental and physical struggles to survive. Welcome to Wilderness! As the smog and pollution covers the metropolis and destroys its citizens’ lungs, 20 people become volunteers for the study including Bea, her husband Glen, an important academician and their daughter Agnes. The rules are defined strictly by the Rangers: they have to play nice, do what they’re told. Unless… You don’t want to think it through. They called themselves community and learned how to use arrow and bow to hunt, achieve struggling tasks to adapt their lives in environment, sharpen their negotiation skills to survive. Rules are obvious: You shouldn’t stay at the same place more than seven days and you shouldn’t leave trace. But as the environment and the circumstances surrounded them bring out the caged animals hid inside the human nature, Bea realizes she has to do something to save her daughter. She cannot live with these conditions. The changing of community volunteers become so threatening at each day and so many waitlisted refugees called Newcomers start to arrive the city, Bea notices the time is ticking. The city people turn into savages who may do whatever it takes to earn their freedom. Overall: This is original, well-written, disturbing journey I mostly enjoyed but I have to emphasize: this journey is not for everyone. You need to prepare yourself to be challenged psychologically. It’s consuming, intense story for the true lovers of bleak future dystopian stories. Special thanks to NetGalley and Harper Collins Publishers for sharing this remarkable ARC in exchange my honest review. blog instagram facebook twitter

The New Wilderness is an eco thriller/dystopian regarding climate change and overpopulation. About the book: Helen Phillips meets Miranda July in this daring and imaginative debut novel that explores a moving mother-daughter relationship in a world ravaged by climate change and overpopulation, a suspenseful second book from the author of the acclaimed story collection, Man V. Nature. My thoughts: This book is hard to describe other than to tell you it’s exciting and unlike anything else I’ve ever read. The future is dark, very dark, and feels vividly real. The book took over my life while I was reading it. I couldn’t put it down, and when I did, I was constantly thinking about it. Could it happen? Would it happen? It’s full of emotion and beautifully-written. I’ve not read Man V. Nature, but I desperately want to now. I received a gifted copy. All opinions are my own. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

Yes, this is a book about life on the land in a dystopian future. But really, mostly, it's a book about mothers and daughters. When you take away all the trappings of daily life and take it down to just survival in a small group, all the ways in which the needs of one and the needs of the other conflict are suddenly bright and harsh. It is often not the case that what is best for the child is best for the parent, and vice versa. And when everything you do is seen, when it is impossible to take space, a relationship can become deeply comlpicated. At the end, while I really enjoyed the wilderness world Cook built and the way she brought it to life, it is the story of Bea and Agnes that really sticks with you. Yes, Bea wants to protect her daughter, but in such a harsh world how to do that is a vastly different question than the one we're used to. Agnes relies on her mother, but growing up in such a different place than her mother did means they are inevitably going to see the world in utterly different ways. Their problems may not be all that similar to the ones parents face in the developed world, but the feelings are recognizable. The book takes a turn part way through that is a real raising of the stakes, I wasn't sure if it would work after that. But to my surprise it got even better. It took me a little while to get into this, but I was glad I did. The prose and I did not always connect, though this is likely a me problem and not a book problem. There were plenty of times when the pacing was right on, I just struggled a bit when it was slower. The emotional stakes made it more than worth it.

Set in a near future where almost everyone is confined to the crowded and polluted cities, a group of 20 gets permission to live in the heavily protected Wilderness State. They are required to live under strict rules to prevent any lasting impact on the environment. Mostly the people in this band came to the Wilderness State to escape the suffocating conditions of the city, but they all come to realise that they can't leave themselves behind. They bring all their problems with them. [W]hen they first arrived in the Wilderness, they imagined living there might make them more sympathetic, better, more attuned people. But they came to understand there'd been a great misunderstanding about what "better" meant. It's possible it simply meant better at being human, and left the definition of the word "human" up for interpretation. It might have only meant better at surviving, anywhere, by any means. For the most part, this book is a meditation on motherhood and self-identity; the fraught but necessarily interdependent nature of the mother-daughter relationship. Bea came to the Wilderness State because her daughter Agnes's health was in severe decline in the city. We see her constantly reexamining her reasons for that choice, questioning how living for someone else can ever be enough, even if it is her daughter. Bea vascillates between protectiveness of her child, and yearning for more tangible demonstrations of affection from Agnes. At the same time, she yearns for her own mother, only appreciating now the privileged role of being the daughter, and wishing more than ever for motherly comfort and love. Agnes, prickly and mercurial, seemingly seemingly unknowable to Bea, deals with similarly conflicted feelings about her mother. We see that they are really two sides of the same coin, always connected yet completely separate. Each individual grapples with how their identity is defined both by the people around them and the place they live. Their survival-oriented lifestyle requires detachment and constant watchful calculation, but this seems incompatible with the reality of emotions and feelings constantly swirling inside. The heaviness in her chest inched up to her throat. She guessed it had something to do with being somewhere so familiar when such familiarity wasn't supposed to exist anymore. Not for them. Not in this life. Wasn't that part of the point? To kill off their sense of home? To have them feel at home anywhere? Or nowhere? Were they the same thing? An interesting book that reflects on the idea that attachment to any person or place, love, is never easy, and in the end, each of us is unknowable except to ourselves.

I remember being curious about this when it came out, but I didn’t want to increase my pandemic anxiety by reading about how we’re destroying the earth. And maybe that was right for me at the time, because that is the setting here. But the heart of this story for me took place between the mother and daughter: how each one contains a certain wisdom of life over the other, and how combining approaches can maximize group survival, but can also create power battles and disconnect us from the very closeness we crave. I was concerned this would be too sci-fi during a time when I wanted more familiar simplicity, but I felt the inspiration here drew more from earlier societies that relied on nature. There are rules in this world that must be followed, and enforcers of those rules with a Big-Brother feel, but it was part of an interesting mix. If you’re someone who loves sci-fi and/or speculative fiction, this may disappoint. If you normally stay away from that genre, this book might be your gateway.

This book made very little sense, the plot was full of holes, and the world building was sloppy to say the least. It has nothing in common with the best of recent dystopian fiction (Station Eleven, Exit West, The Wall), in which the suspension of disbelief is only too easy. That said, I'm giving it four stars. I found Agnes to be an entirely compelling character, and while Bea was more uneven, their mother and daughter relationship was gripping. And for all the plot holes and loose threads, after a slower first third, I could not put the book down. The ending was lame, but right up until the very end, I found myself very invested in Agnes and her coming of age struggles. The wilderness is its own character here too, and its power builds for you. So, a good rating in spite of the book's weaknesses, not blind to them.

I don't really know what I was expecting, probably something a bit more highbrow with some deep hidden meanings. This is just a better than average dystopian novel with a pretty lame ending, in fact I hated the ending. The New Wilderness refers to a vast area of untamed land, untouched by humans, but they put 20 humans in there to see if they can live without harming the environment. I hated pretty much ALL the characters, especially Carl who basically wants to repopulate the world with little Carls, but the relationship between mother and daughter is really interesting and watching that develop was the best thing about the book. Like I said, hated the ending, nearly lopped a star off but it is Christmas.

I'm a sucker for a dystopian future novel and this one totally delivered for me. I really enjoyed the storyline and found it actually quite possible, which seems to be against a lot of the reviews on here. A lot of people have commented on the fact that it's unrealistic that the group lost track of days, weeks, months etc, but when they don't have a real meaning anymore why would you keep track of them? My mum has to work out her age each birthday because its not a big deal to her anymore, whereas when she was a child she always knew. Time passing is only relevant when you have things to be late for. The negative reviews just all seem a little nitpicky; I think this was a beautiful, well-told story, and I thoroughly enjoyed every page. 4.5*

My voice was a crooked plow, deformed, penetrating the soil, only to leave it in fertile, ravaged, destroyed. Shortlisted for the 2024 International Booker Prize Shortlisted for the Oxford-Weidenfeld Prize Crooked Plow is Johnny Lorenz's translation of Torto Arado by Itamar Vieira Junior - although you will search the cover (featuring artwork by Paolo Saliby), back page and both french flaps in vain for any mention of Lorenz's role. The novel comes in three sections - I. Edge of the Blade; II. Crooked Plow; and III. River of Blood and is set, I think, in the early part of the second half of the 20th century. Edge of the Blade is narrated by Bibiana, who lives with her parents who are tenants on a planation in Bahia, in northern Brazil. The tenant farmers are descended from those who were only freed from slavery a few generations earlier, and still live in poverty, having to pay the landowner to farm their land and not allowed to erect permanent residences. The story opens when Bibiana is seven and she and her sister Belonísia, a year younger, have decided to open the suitcase where their grandmother stores her most prized possessions. There they find a knife hidden in a bloodied rag - deciding to taste the metal with their tongues, they manage to both badly cut themselves, one damaging their tongue so badly they end up mute, a memory that later returns to Bibiana when two other sister, identical twins, are bought to be treated by their father, a Jaré healer as well as a farmer: To look at Crispina crumpled there at our feet, her eyes the color of fire, her kinky hair matted with dead leaves and flower petals—some of which still held a hint of color and a lingering perfume—her lips whitened with threads of saliva, her flesh exhaling a nauseating odor while her sister Crispiniana stood nearby, was to experience all over again the misfortune that devastated us the day we removed the knife from the suitcase and, eager to know the beauty of that strange, forbidden radiance, placed it in our mouths, feeling liberated, as though this were possible, from all the prohibitions of our parents' and neighbors' religious beliefs, from our own oppression as workers bound to the plantation. It was as if the broken piece of mirror in our grandmother's dusty suitcase had lost another shard, for in the mirror of that blade we discovered a part of ourselves. The incident initially drives the sister's closer together, forming a syncretic pair, one of them (Bibiana only reveals which in the closing sentences of her account) acting as the interpreter for the mute other. But once love comes into play the sisters find themselves interested in the same man, a cousin (and meanwhile the twins even share a husband) who gets Bibiana pregnant, the two eloping from the plantation, and staying away for a few years, while Belonísia remains behind. The section section, Crooked Plow, is Belonísia's account of her life, including while Bibiana is away and then after her return (view spoiler). Belonísia herself gets married, but fights back against her husband's mistreatment of her, and then does so on behalf of other abused women in the community. And the story gradually becomes more political. The girl's father is the community leader of the tenant farmers on the plantation, as well as their spiritual leader for the syncretic religion they practice. He represents the community to the local Mayor and the plantation owner, successfully campaigning for a school to be established, but he doesn't challenge the overall justice of the situation in which they live, whereas the younger generation, led by Bibiana's husband, Severo, and her younger brother, take a more militant stance: The way the system operated, it was the workers who were indebted to the owners of the land, for having been granted the opportunity to work; except for that debt, they had nothing to bequeath to their children and grandchildren. The only thing they could possibly leave them was the house itself, almost always in a state of ruin. But the old-timers at Água Negra didn’t get upset about such things; their priority, in fact, was to keep the peace between workers and landowners. Perhaps they felt some deep gratitude for having been taken in, gratitude that subsequent generations wouldn’t understand, having been born and raised on the plantation. [...] My brother wouldn’t let it drop, though he avoided talking about it in front of our father. He’d accompany Severo when, between tasks, his brother-in-law went around the plantation, engaging with his fellow workers. “We can’t keep living like this. We have a right to our own land. We’re the descendants of those original escaped slave communities, the quilombos. We’re quilombolas.” This dream of freedom kept growing inside of us, affecting everything we did. As the years passed, the dream would create conflicts between parents and children. The third section of the novel River of Blood is narrated by an encantada, an ancient spirit who inhabits people (she calls them her 'horses' who she 'rides'), particularly during the spiritual ceremonies. Appearing to Bibiana at an earlier ceremony, where the girl had just learned she was pregnant and was contemplating elopement, the spirit tells her from your movement, shall come both your victory and your defeat, which could also stand-in for the political campaigning of Severo which ends in violence. I’m an old spirit, an ancient encantada, and I’ve been with these people ever since they came here from Minas Gerais, from the Recôncavo, from Africa. Maybe they’ve forgotten all about Santa Rita the Fisherwoman, but my memory won’t let me forget how I suffered with them when they fled from land disputes and armed conflicts and the ravages of drought. I’ve traversed centuries; it’s like walking over the surface of a rough river. The battles were always unjust. I’ve watched these people endure the annihilation of their dreams. Her account fills in more of the history of the area and the family (the reason for the knife hidden in the chest; how the girl's father came to the plantation) and also the aftermath of the political campaigning, the reader being left to choose if the spirit is real, or if the two sister, who the spirit comes to temporarily inhabit, are acting entirely of their own volition. The novel is very well executed and I understand it made a significant impact in Brazil, winning literary prizes and liked by critics and readers alike and, I believe, in the context of modern Brazilian literature focused on urban communities, was something of a revalation. At the same time, for an English-speaking reader, this rather fits our traditional expectations of translated Latin-American literature - the Brazilian-setting aside this could easily be a lost Gabriel Garica Marquez novel, or (for a Brazilian comparison) one by Jorge Amado. Out of Earth, which is on the Republic of Consciousness Prize shortlist and which many had expected to see on the International Booker list, covers similarish ground but in a more literary innovative way, and I would have preferred if it had made the list if only one could have done so (and while it shouldn't work this way in theory, in practice I suspect the judges would have wanted to pick only one rural Brazilian novel). Nevertheless this deserves its place and one I hope to see on the shortlist - indeed it would make a worthy winner.

This book had a lot going for it that should have made it a favorite for me, the themes, the locale the but the tone just felt so dry until near the very end. 3.5 rounded up.

Crooked Plow tells the story of a quilombola community in Bahia, Brazil. Quilombolas are the descendants of escaped Afro-Brazilian slaves, whose settlements were called quilombos. Legal battles about land ownership are still ongoing. The book does very well in bringing the community to life, by way of an engaging story of two sisters living on a plantation presumably around the 1960s. In the opening chapter, the sisters find a mysterious knife and one of them accidentally cuts of her tongue with it and loses her speech. The families on the plantation work the land from Sunday to Sunday, without salary, without the right to build a permanent house, but with the right to live on the plantation, to practice their 'Jaré' religion (an interesting mix of West-African and Catholic beliefs) and to tend their vegetable gardens in their free time. In short: modern slavery, to which a resistance slowly starts to build. I wasn't too impressed with the writing, the message being more important than the style. It suffers from repetitions too. But the story it tells is important and interesting, so 3,5 rounded up.

Follow the tale of Georgian Jashi family throughout the red century and into the 21st century. Written in eight books as a family history to a young niece, the narrative follows each generation as they live through the Bolshevik revolution, Stalin’s purge and its accompanying gulags and torture, brutal assault, the Siege of Leningrad and the Prague spring. This is an expansive family saga with a touch of magical realism in the form of a chocolate recipe handed down through generations bringing with it some advantages and many burdens. Histrionic in a few places this is, nonetheless, vivid, riveting historical fiction.

Now Winner of the: TA First Translation Prize from the Society of Authors (for editor and translator) 2021 Warwick Prize for Women in Translation 2021 Helen & Kurt Wolff Translator’s Prize Also longlisted for the 2021 International Booker Prize in the UK, National Book Award Nominee for Translated Literature in the US This book, like all others, springs from the desire to have something survive, to bring the past into the present, to call to mind the forgotten, to give voice to the silenced, and to mourn the lost. Writing cannot bring anything back, but it can enable everything to be experienced. Hence this volume is as much about seeking as finding, as much about losing as gaining, and gives a sense that the difference between presence and absence is perhaps marginal, as long as there is memory. The Inventory of Losses is Jackie Smith’s (https://www.goethe.de/ins/gb/en/kul/l...) translation of Judith Schalansky ‘Verzeichnis einiger Verluste’ (2018). This is a beautifully produced book, and the production is part of the text, as Schalansky explains in the preface (in Smith’s translation): For me, the inseparability of form and content is the reason why I like not only to write but also to design books. After a brilliantly written and erudite preface (from which the quote at the top of the review is taken), explaining Schalansky’s mission, the novel consists of 14 pieces, each like the preface exactly 16 pages long, inspired by a lost thing, with each section prefaced by a black page with a faint but relevant picture (not the pictures in my review below) -the barely visible traces reflecting those that remain (rumours, faded pictures, memories, fragments) of the vanished subject. The first piece tells of the lost (if it ever existed) island of Tuanaki in the Southern Cook Islands, as well as Captain Cook’s “discovery” of the neighbouring island of Mangaia, with the page showing a map of the area, and is told in a rather Sebaldian and erudite fashion. John Webber’s portrait of Mourua, from the island of Mangaia, on Captain’s Cook’s Resolution in 1777 which inspired the piece, which Schalansky references in the text: But part of the novel's fascination is how the style of the pieces are so varied. One on the extinct Caspian tiger is framed as fight between a tiger and a lion in the Colosseum. The day is still young as the emperor steps into his box, pushes back the hood of his robe, shows off his tall sturdy physique, his stout neck, his imposing profile that everyone knows from the coins. When finally he sits down, the dungeon is unlocked, a chasm opens at ground level and a colossal animal of a kind never before seen emerges from the pit, bursts into the ring, races around the enclosure, leaps high against the parapet separating the public from the arena and, with a thunderous din, beats its mighty paws against the iron gate, stops, looks around, and for an infinite moment stands still. This beast is preceded by a reputation that transcends oceans and mountains: it is said to originate from the depths of the forests of Hyrcania, the wild, rugged, evergreen land that borders the Caspian Sea. Its name is at once a curse and an incantation. It is reputed to be swift as an arrow, wild as the Tigris, the fastest flowing of all rivers, from which it takes its name. Its fur blazes red as an open fire, the sooty stripes akin to branches in the embers, the facial features finely drawn, the ears upstanding, the cheeks powerful, the muzzle bristling with white whiskers, the eyes glowing green beneath heavy brows, and on its forehead a dark symmetrical marking, the meaning of which no one knows. A piece on The Boy in Blue, the first and lost film of F W Murnau, director of Nosferatu, is told via a close third-person perspective story of Greta Garbo (one of only 11 attendees at his funeral, and who kept a death mask of Murnau on her desk) post her retirement from movies, one in which she laments her appearance in her final movie, Two-Faced Woman. A piece titled Greifswald Harbour begins: * Between 1810 and 1820, Caspar David Friedrich painted the harbor of his native city of Greifswald crowded with the masts of sailing ships, among them galleasses, brigantines and yachts. The old Hanseatic city was connected with all the major commercial centers via the navigable estuary of the river Ryck, which flows into the Baltic Sea, and even though the channel of the river Ryck was much broader then, it frequently threatened to silt up. ✝ The 94-centimeter-high, 74-centimeter-wide oil painting had been in the possession of the Hamburger Kunsthalle since 1909, and in 1931 went on show at Munich's Glass Palace as part of the exhibition Works by German Romantics from Caspar David Friedrich to Moritz von Schwind. On June 6 a fire broke out there that destroyed more than three thousand paintings, including all the works in the special exhibition. (the * and ✝ in each chapter's introductuion representing the birth/origin and death/disappearance of the object) But then is represented by an attempt to create in words what was lost with the pictures, a very detailed, almost over-rich, description of a walk from the source of the Rivee Ryck to its mouth in the harbour: In the grass of the riverbank I find a brown-grained river mussel, as large as a chicken's egg. Its inner surface shimmers in shades of mother-of-pearl. Not far off, some mallard ducks are dabbling in the water. They fly away with an irritable whining and flapping as I approach, more easily startled than their town-dwelling cousins, and gather on the nearby fallow field. Their webbed feet show up in shades of orange and the heads of the drakes shimmer peacock-blue against the grey expanse of the field. ... And beneath a hawthorn bush lie dozens of chalky-pale, shattered snails' shells and the stones where black-birds and thrushes have smashed the armour-plating to extract the soft flesh. The mussel and snail shells from the author’s collection: And the book continues in that fascinating vein. A word of warning though in terms of a reader's expectations - this isn't a novel looking for an underlying story line or connection between the different subject matters: it is much closer to Krasznahorkai's brilliant Seiobo There Below that the works of Sebald in its ultimate form. But the final piece, Kinau's Selenographs, does bring the collection to a very neat end. Overall a fascinating and beautifully written novel, deserving of major prizes. Interview with the author: https://sz-magazin.sueddeutsche.de/li... Excellent review in the Guardian: https://www.theguardian.com/books/202...

The ghost of Sebald is definitely flitting between the sentences of An Inventory of Losses. Obviously the book is not a complete homage but there are traces. In fact while Sebald gave the impression of spontaneous bursts of information, this book has a tight structure. An Inventory of Losses is divided into different chapters, each one dedicated to something that has been ‘lost’ from society. Be it an animal species, a film or even a country. Then all sections are preceded by a plate , some brief facts about the lost item and then an essay, think-piece, anecdote, in one case there’s a fake memoir and even a short stories. Thus while there is structure, there’s a playful element within the contents. Although on first glance this may seem random but when taken as a whole, the reader gets a picture of the human race. Ultimately we like to destroy exploit, force are influence without taking notice of the after affects. As an example, the first (and personal favorite) section concerns some lost islands, which leads to an essay about the effects colonisers have, another section, which I felt stood out was the lost Sappho works, which segues into an essay about society’s attitude towards lesbians – past and present. Due to the book’s structure, I think that some pieces stick out more than others. Something which I find with short story collections. None of these sections are weak but some may appeal more than others, really it’s up to personal taste. However, An Inventory of Losses is an admirable book, which pushes the notions of what fiction is and at the same time retains a sense of fun. You’ll also come out of it smarter, which is always a great thing.

An unusual but fascinating collection of stories about objects, animals and places that no longer exist. About things that have not survived the test of time. About what has been lost. I enjoyed this collection of stories. They were varied in nature and well written. I certainly recommend them. Thank you to Edelweiss, the publisher and the author for sending me this ARC.

Sunday Forrester is not like most people. She has her quirks about what she eats and drinks. She relies on an etiquette book for guidance on how to act in social situations and she lives by Sicilian folklore. No, she’s not like the other characters in this novel, and the biggest difference is not those quirks. I found it was in her capacity to deeply love, especially her rebellious teenage daughter who is drifting away from her. She’s different from the rich and glamorous new neighbors whom she at first becomes enamored with. They are really not the kind people they want Sunday to think they are. Without going into detail, I’ll just say that the only way I can describe them is as “ careless people “ (like Tom & Daisy Buchanan in The Great Gatsby ) caring only for themselves and not who they trample on . I was afraid for Sunday and for her daughter Dolly, wondering if what I suspected would come to fruition. I wanted to climb inside the pages and warn her . This is a heartbreaking story in many way as we learn of Sunday’s past and traumatic childhood and as we see what Sunday is now facing. In some ways, though it is a triumph of spirit . In spite of this. Sunday is self aware and comfortable in who she is and thrives . It’s hard to say more about this story without giving anything away. I’ll just say that this is a touching and enlightening story that deserved its place as a contender for the Booker Prize. I wondered how the author could get us so intimately connected with Sunday who is autistic. I read in notes about Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow that like her protagonist, she is autistic. A thanks to her for opening the window into Sunny’s thoughts. I received a copy of this book from Algonquin through NetGalley.

Longlisted for 2023 Booker Prize This novel is a little bit different, but just a bit. Usually, when there is a mystery in a book, the reader is the one who needs to solve it. In 'All the Little Bird Hearts,' the mystery needs to be unraveled by the protagonist alone, because she is autistic. The reader is just a witness to events that apparently unfold very slowly. It's possible that many readers might get bored. I didn't have that problem. I felt frustration, but I think that's the idea. Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow is officially the first autistic author nominated for the Booker. It's clear that she knows what she's writing about. The first chapters, in which Sunday, the main character, meets and befriends a new neighbor, are almost exhausting due to the complexity of the thoughts the heroine has in trying to understand the stranger and behave normally. But the book has more to offer than just this different perspective. There's an emotional story here about a fulfilled life that Sunday manages to have despite all the difficulties and betrayals from those close to her. Don't expect Faulkner. The prose is quite conventional despite the point of view, and there are more mechanical portions than the story needs, but it's a lively book, created to tell a story, not to discuss a certain theme.

As a neurotypical reader, this felt like one of the most genuinely voiced, honest, and authentic stories about neurodiversity which I have read. It’s a novel about the contrast between quiet and loud lives lived in ordinary places. Lloyd-Barlow does an excellent job of conveying the everyday complexities and challenges of neurodiverse life in a way that doesn’t sensationalise quirkiness in the way that so many novels seem to. What I thought was done best here, was the exploration how the unfamiliar can be both enticing and threatening. A quiet novel, but one I found very compelling especially on the level of characterisation.

Sunday is autistic and has lived her life strictly following Edith Olgivy’s “Etiquette for Ladies” to the letter. That is before she meets Vita who has moved in next door. Living what some may call a sheltered life, Sunday has never met anybody like Vita before. She finds her glamourous, vivacious, afraid of nothing. Soon Sunday finds herself imitating her, wishing she could be her. This all changes when Sunday’s daughter, who lives with her, finishes her exams, and Rollo, Vita’s husband, arrives on the scene. Dolly, much like her mother, finds Vita fascinating and is smitten like a puppy. Friday nights turn into regular meet ups and joyous occasions for all four. But then Sunday finds that with each evening her presence diminishes. She starts to feel she is an “outsider”, a “gatecrasher” to an evening that she was invited to attend. Her importance to the conversation fades away. Dolly begins to spend more and more time with Vita and Rollo. It starts with Dolly sleeping over after each Friday night supper. Then almost surreptitiously the sleepovers spill into weekdays. Sunday feels her slipping away, exiting her life. Sunday’s feelings of jealousy morph into fear as the novel takes a dark turn. Are Vita and Rollo stealing Dolly away? Is Dolly the daughter that Vita yearns for? Almost without realization, Sunday finds herself separated from her daughter. Vita is the star of the book. Such a rich and complex character. On the outside she is confidant, loud, the life of the party, but we find out that this confidence is a shield hiding and protecting a woman who yearns to be a mother. Cracks in this shield start to splinter as we learn more about her. This is a novel that explores the dynamics of relationships and how they change. Relationships between friends that somehow “run their course” and peter out. Relationships between mother and daughter and how they can change as the daughter matures. The difficulty of forming and maintaining relationships for somebody who has autism. Lloyd-Barlow places you inside Sunday’s head, enabling the reader to feel her difficulty, her discomfort that she experiences with these relationships. At times it is heartbreaking to know that Sunday knows that Dolly thinks her strange. A great read.

3.5 ⭐️ Primarily this book is about a mother learning to let go of her teenage daughter; letting her flee the nest. However, it isn’t any old mother daughter story for a number of reasons, and those reasons alone are what made this book entertaining and also empowering… From the very beginning it is obvious to the reader that, Sunday, the mother, is autistic. She has many quirks which are highlighted throughout the novel. I love reading books with autistic characters; especially females because as an autistic young woman myself I can totally relate. Some of her personal traits were: “I was in a long-standing white found routine that summer” meaning she would only eating food that were white in colour, a favourite of hers being white fish boiled in milk with rice. She was constantly being told “speak up, repeat that, say that again” since adolescence. - I can definitely relate to this one, being very softly spoken myself. Like myself, she also “naturally spoke in a monotone.” She did find that “working with plants does much to temporarily aid my sensory imbalance.” And “avoided the telephone whenever I can, using it only for short necessary calls.” There are many more differences I could highlight, however, I think overall, Viktoria did an excellent job at portraying neurodivergence in a domestic setting. Intrigued, I read up on the author and discovered she had done her doctoral research at Harvard in autism and literary narrative, which explains how she created such an impressive debut novel. Sunday and her 16-year-old daughter, Dolly, have a somewhat quiet existence. They both have routines that they follow quite happily. However, this all changes when new neighbours appear next door and suddenly their routines are challenged by Vita and Rollo. The couple soon intertwine themselves in Sunday and Dolly’s lives and Sunday frequently finds herself having to resort to the Etiquette of Ladies; A Guide to Social Activity book written by Edith Ogilvy in 1959. What starts off as weekly dinners soon becomes more than Sunday had wanted or anticipated… I found this couple very hard to read and I’m not sure if this was done on person to depict how Sunday found them. Personally, I found them to have many sides. Sometimes they were light, cherry and loveable and others they seemed possessive, particularly over Dolly and her future. I found myself wanting to shout out to Sunday and tell her that her daughter was being taken over; there was a sadness to it. I don’t want to give any more of the plot away so I will leave it at that… Although I found it highly relatable and funny in parts, there seemed to be a lack of substance to the story in parts. Furthermore, I would have liked a more definitive ending to the story…I was torn between a 3.5 and 4 ⭐️ and it is definitely a book I would recommend especially for a non-autistic reader as it gives an excellent insight. 🐦🐦🐦🐦♥️♥️♥️♥️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

(3.5 maybe???) Left me feeling hot and cold. It kinda went back and forth between being riveting and tedious (there were several repetitive scenes, although I can see why those needed to be there). But the prose was always amazing though. The observations were biting. I’ll need to reflect. I’d be very curious to see what Lloyd-Barlow writes next because the talent is most certainly there.

All the Little Bird-Hearts made me angry and sad. I do believe the story should evoke strong emotion from the reader so I do not mean this as a criticism. I was not upset with the author or the narrator. I was enraged and disheartened by the world that this story reflects. Told in an authentic voice, All the Little Bird-Hearts is the story of an autistic (although never explicitly stated) woman (Sunday) raising a teenage daughter (Dolly) on her own. When her exuberant new neighbor (Vita) shows up at her door, Sunday tries to process this woman’s behavior. She is taken in by the charm and flashiness, though, and a friendship, greatly valued by Sunday, begins to form. But Vita may not be the friend Sunday believes her to be, and Sunday’s social struggles and vulnerability blind her to this truth. As readers, we are likely to detect the problematic nature of this relationship early on, but that is, in part, the point, demonstrating how others are able to understand behavior in a way that Sunday cannot. We also get heartbreaking glimpses of Sunday’s past, which makes her own fixation on the friendship and her consequential blindness all the more understandable. I found myself enraged on Sunday’s behalf. The way most of the people in this novel treated her was absolutely disgusting. But I believe it. I know how quick some people are to prey upon those they view as different. Plus, the depiction of privilege and the arrogance of wealth seemed infuriatingly accurate. More than anything, I felt extremely frustrated with Dolly. I know her age contributed to her behavior, but I do wish the epilogue had helped me feel more at peace with her choices. I think it was meant to, but I was genuinely upset with how she treated her mother, and what I was given in that final act just wasn’t enough. Perhaps it’s just the single mother I once was rising up from within me, recognizing all of Sunday’s love, sacrifices, and best attempts in raising her daughter. I do think All the Little Bird-Hearts is an important book. Since it’s an own voices novel, it provides readers with critical insight into a neurodivergent mind (although you must also remember that each neurodivergent person is a unique individual and not an exact mirror of the narrator). It also corrects many of the misconceptions people possess regarding autism, while illuminating how cruel society can be toward those who don’t fit in a box. Sunday deserved a much kinder life story, but I don’t blame the author for giving her such an honest one. I am immensely grateful to Hachette Audio, Tinder Press, and NetGalley for my copy. All opinions are my own.

Sunday lives with her sixteen year old daughter, Dolly. They live in Sunday’s childhood home. Theirs is a quiet existence - Sunday likes peace, consistency and prefers to eat only white foods. She finds stability and order in routine, even though Dolly is starting to rebel against this lifestyle as she travels towards maturity. Then the exotic Vita and Rollo move in next door. Captivating, charming and often outrageous, Sunday is instantly seduced by their loud and chaotiv personalities and quickly becomes part of their lives. For the first time in her life she feels like she fits in somewhere. But then they turn their sights on Dolly… What a beautifully written book, definitely not one to be rushed. Instead each page needs to be savoured as the writing is incredibly lyrical and wonderfully detailed. Sunday is such a magnificently complex character, I loved getting to know her and empathise with her. I even got angry for her. How dare these people enter her life and turn it upside down?! Then there’s the plot - which is so slowly and cleverly revealed that a growing sense of unease gradually creeps across the pages and it becomes impossible to put the book down. An incredible debut novel, filled with poetry, deep with meaning and with a splash of darkness and danger thrown in for good measure.

This is an incredible book. I loved the reader on the audio book, Rose Akroyd. Sunday is a neurodiverse person. This story is brilliantly told from her POV. I didn’t quite like anyone in this book except David. Sunday is written so beautifully that she is understood.

I identified so strongly with the main character, Sunday. I understand her. I really appreciate the way the author portrayed her so generously; well thought out, not a stereotype at all. The first half of the book progressed somewhat slowly but then picked up and the last third had me gripped in emotion and anticipation. The way it ended was emotionally complicated, sad sure but also encouraging, not in a showy or perfect way, nothing fake. The ending felt right and Sunday was more free than she had ever been. One of the better books on the Booker 2023 long list. I recommend it but am not likely to read again due to the first half. For me that is a 4star.

When I first started this book I found it rather confusing and wasn’t sure if I’d keep reading. Then I checked a couple of reviews and realised the author is autistic which gave me a reason for the unusual writing. After that I ‘got it’ as I’ve met a few autistic people in the past. We are all different but their world can be very much so. This is about Sunday’s life and all she’s had to go through and still does. I really enjoyed the writing and it helped me understand her world with her daughter. They truly get along in the strange world or at least that’s what others think. Then comes Vita and Rollo next door who push their way into this quiet safe life of Sunday’s. It’s so well written you at first think Vita will help Sunday to come out of her little bubble but at what cost? Their Friday dinners with Sunday and Dolly are a great big showtime and Dolly being an impressionable teenager gets sucked into their world of promises. I began to hate that couple, especially after the part with the dog, in the end for what they did to Sunday and Dolly but finally Dolly realised too late they were only users with big ideas. Sunday goes on with her life but things will sadly never be the same for her and Dolly.

Ok I am back on track with the longlist! I really enjoyed reading All The Little Bird-Hearts by Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow, there was something just so wonderfully heartbreaking about it. This is one of two books on the longlist told from a neurodiverse character. This one though was written by an author who is herself autistic. In contrast to How to Build a Boat which had a more stereotypical voice of a teenager All The Little Bird-Hearts sang with an authenticity of voice that both warmed me and made my heart ache. Sunday lives with her 16 year old daughter Dolly in the English countryside. Her sister and parents died when she was young and she prefers to live a quiet and ordered life. It soon becomes clear that Sunday’s very specific life of routine, discomfort with social interactions and preferences for white foods is a result of neuro-divergence. The sad thing is that these traits are seen to be wilful disobedience or oddness and Sunday is often perplexed by the world around her. Their lives are changed though when a vibrant couple Vita and Rollo move in next door over the summer. As she is on the cusp of losing Dolly to the adult world this couple swoop in and bring excitement and glamour to their lives. The couple soon become more focussed on Dolly though as she practically moves in with them and becomes a part of their world as opposed to the safety of her mother’s small life. This change between Dolly and Sunday was hard to watch. Dolly seems impervious to her mother’s need for her to stay safely with her and Sunday is at a loss as she watches Dolly move farther and farther away. I loved the way Lloyd-Barlow’s writing so vividly described Sunday’s inner thoughts. This was not a fast paced novel and the ending is obvious to the reader well before it is obvious to Sunday which adds to its pathos. I felt so deeply for Sunday as I watched her experience rejection and insecurity. I really enjoyed the reading experience and found this to be less bleak book than many of the other longlisted books which was a welcome relief.

About a neurodivergent mother, her daughter and a rich entitled couple that step into their lives and change them forever.

BOOKER PRIZE 2023 LONGIST ALL THE LITTLE BIRD-HEARTS by Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow **** Another debut author longlisted, Lloyd-Barlow is autistic and has written a very emotional story of a high-functioning autistic protagonist, a single mother whose very regimented and predictable life gets turned around with the appearance of new neighbours. Sunday Forrester lives her life incredibly self-aware of her own mental processes and patterns, her need to repeat to herself the words spoken to her, their intonations, their accents. She has obsessions with decorum of social interactions and fascinated by the ways of Sicilian life. She has faced repeated loss, first of her sister, then her parents, then her marriage. She lives a schedule set largely by work and her teenage daughter, Dolly, who has grown frustrated with Sunday’s behaviours and limits. A well-to-do couple, Vita and Rollo, move next door and quickly become the central force in both Sunday’s and Dolly’s life, which brings joy to Sunday, but soon worry as Dolly becomes the centre of their attention. Told from Sunday’s perspective, this is a novel driven by voice and it is a voice often neglected in literary fiction, a very complicated and vulnerable view of a neurodiverse person. Sunday is filled with doubts, regrets, guilt but also enormous amounts of love and trust, traits that others take advantage of. Some reviews felt annoyed by the repetitive nature of her stimming behaviour, but I think that is the point to understand that this is the mental process that those with neurodiverse individuals require to function as best they can. The lack of patience some readers have expressed feels like the lack of patience those like Sunday experience every day with those who surround them. Although I flew through this book and found the writing filled with tension and empathy, it has problems. I found it bothersome that Sunday, although richly developed and with potential agency, mostly ends up accepting the fate others have deemed appropriate for her. She is angry and disappointed with the outcomes, but also lethargic and passive when she feels unable to alter the course of events she has accepted as inevitable. This may be a reality Lloyd-Barlow wanted to convey but also left me disappointed when Sunday’s anger could easily be discounted and ignored by those around her. Probably not a short-list for me but still a powerful read. #bookstareadsthebooker2023 #bookstagramreadsthebooker #bookerprize #bookprizes #literaryfiction #igbooks #neurodiversity

a good book that has got me back in a reading mood! the way sunday’s autism is written is so relatable like the repeating of phrases people say in her head was so real. the homoerotic madness going on between vita and sunday was insane 😭

“Occasionally, and only in front of Dolly, I would showily eat something that did not adhere to my assigned list of foods. You can eat normally then; you can do what the rest of us do without a fuss. My mother said this, often. I answered her silently when she was alive and I continue to do so now she is dead: There is a cost, Mother, always a cost to such transgressions, and I am the one who pays. I am the one whose throat and body burn when I politely swallow down food of the wrong colour; it is my arm that itches when a neighbour greets me by lightly placing a hand on my skin. I wear the marks of these encounters, these painful sensory interruptions.” This novel affected me deeply. The character, Sunday, touched me deeply. The portrayal of the neurodivergent experience felt honest and authentic. As a parent of young adults who are, one by heart-wrenching one, fleeing my nest, I also identified with the unintentional cruelty inflicted on Sunday as her daughter excitedly looked to a future away from her mother and the perceived banality of life in her hometown. This novel keeps you on your toes with suspense while tugging at your heart with empathy and hope for a just and gratifying ending.

This novel is set in 1988 and to a reader in 2023 it seems obvious that the narrator Sunday has a form of autism which is undiagnosed. The novel does a good job in making the reader see the world through Sunday's eyes. It did move rather slowly for me but about 60% through I became hooked.

Absolutely loved this. 4.5 stars! 🩷

This was a surprise. I picked it up thinking it had a good chance of being shortlisted for the 2023 Booker, and after How to Build a Boat's utter failure to provide a convincing neuro-divergent narrative voice, I hoped this would be better. And it is. In fact, it is so much better at offering a rarely captured narrative that I was pleasantly taken aback. And although the book has a number of problems - the pacing, foremost among them - I found myself not caring about them and instead caring a great deal about Sunday, our protagonist. And the longer I read, the more I understood that the sometimes glacial pace, the repetitions, the overuse of the title metaphor, all made me understand the narrator so much more. Even when I got angry on her behalf because other people were horrible, I never felt it was going too far - and in many cases I had to withdrew my harsh judgement because I suddenly realised there was another way of interpreting the actions of some characters. And others were simply assholes (they exist!). I loved this book because even the annoying parts of it helped me understand Sunday and her daughter better. I struggled with rating All the little Bird-Hearts, because objectively it is not perfect; it could be tighter, it probably would have benefited from a stricter editor. But it still completely convinced and captivated me, and if that's not the mark of a great book, I don't know what is. So this book has flaws, and I can understand why people find it lacklustre. I even understand why it did not make the short list (though if we were going for composition, really, Pearl should be there instead of Western Lane). But for me it was an emotional revelation, and I will absolutely recommend it to a lot of people.

This book broke my heart. Cruel cruel world- and people.

Probably more like 3.5. It had a veerrrryyy slow start. Things didn't really pick up until well into the second half. But the writing was really good and I enjoyed it.

All my reviews live at https://deedireads.com/. All the Little Bird-Hearts was longlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize, and I’m glad it was, because otherwise I probably would never have picked it up. But this was a book very much worth my time (and yours). The main character, Sunday, is a lovable but lonely autistic single mother whose world (and relationship with her teenage daughter) is shaken up when glamorous, electrifying new neighbors move into the house next door. Throughout the book, there’s a dark tension that grows more and more ominous as you read, making it both deeply engaging and tenderly heartbreaking. This is a refreshingly authentic portrayal of autism by an autistic author (amidst the “finest fiction” Booker-esque literary canon, anyway). I read an interview with the author where she talked about her intentional choice to set this in the ‘80s before our modern understanding of autism became prevalent, because Sunday was not in a privileged enough position to outwardly challenge biases. Setting it in the ‘80s allowed her to form a more autonomous understanding of herself. And I think this choice was extremely successful. If you were on the fence about this one because it was longlisted but not shortlisted, do yourself a favor and pick it up anyway. It’s worth it! CONTENT AND TRIGGER WARNINGS: Ableism; Gaslighting; Death of a child/sibling (in memories)

This was most definitely a 4 star read! The first half felt rocky and like you were fumbling around in this woman’s head trying to perceive the story through her neurodivergent vision - because you were! Once the story shifted and her biggest traumas were revealed mid way through the rest of the story unveiled more clearly without as much confusion as if she had been completely underwater the entire first half but had came face to face with her biggest thorn and was now on the road to healing. I just loved all the parallels between the characters and different types of bird and her poetic literary skills were beautifully interwoven throughout - a very “different” novel but for a debut, it was absolutely lovely!!!!

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2023. Written by a neurodiverse author about a neurodiverse protagonist in the first-person, ‘All the Little Bird-Hearts’ by Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow. Such a book being nominated is a fresh and welcome perspective to the Booker Prize, and Lloyd-Barlow does not disappoint with a fascinating read on a neurodiverse mother’s relationship with her neurotypical daughter. Part autobiographical, the quirks of her obsessions about Sicilian folklore and ability to comprehend intentions of a new couple moving in next door creates a memorable story.

4.5 stars! Beautifully written portrayal about a single mother who is autistic. I really felt for Sunday and how she was perceived and sometimes taken advantage of and rejected. Her unconditional love for her daughter really came through in this story, even th0ugh it was not always reciprocated. This is one I want to reread again at some point!

At times, breathtaking. Check out my 2024 honorable mentions at Hello, Bookworm. 👈 ✨"...you know it is possible to love in such a way that you command reality, that your sight cannot be trusted!"✨ I hardly know how to describe this book: As an elegy to the stars? An ode to love's ability to connect us? An exquisitely crafted tale of friendship and faith? A quiet mystery concerning hidden history? An exemplary tale of scientific discovery? A ghost story? Yes, it's all of that. And more. The story concerns Thomas Hart, a god-fearing man who leads a double life and dabbles in trading psalms for physics, and Grace Macauley, who ventures into the wider world when the deal she makes with God doesn't go as planned. Thomas is gifted a planisphere, which launches him on a decades-long search for a nineteenth century astronomer who's rumored to haunt a nearby manor. The astronomer's presence haunts the story, too, and teases the edges of Thomas' conscious. This gorgeous tale of symbolism and symmetry is studded with articles, letters, and emails. It's a story in which characters rarely say what they truly feel and only dare to whisper their deepest longings. Life often pulls them apart, yet the stars continually draw them back into each other's orbits. Masterfully crafted with exquisite prose, Enlightenment holds as much wonder as the night sky and is sure to enchant fans of The Essex Serpent. My heartfelt thanks to the kind people at Mariner Books for gifting me an ARC of this book that I desperately wanted. 💙 -- ORIGINAL POST 👇 Ooooh! New book coming from Sarah Perry. 📘👀 I enjoyed the Gothic undertones of The Essex Serpent, and I especially liked the dark turns she took in Melmoth. Keen to see what surprises await in this book. 🫣

After Melmoth, her masterpiece of “theological Gothic”, Sarah Perry returns with Enlightenment, a novel which is, I would say, more “theological” than “Gothic”. The key character of Perry’s latest work is one Thomas Hart, a newspaper columnist from the Essex town of Aldleigh. Thomas seems a man of another age, always impeccably – if old-fashionedly – dressed. His writing style and choice of subject matter is also quite anachronistic, which is possibly why the newspaper editor encourages him to consider “the moon” as a potential new subject for his column. From this unlikely suggestion, Thomas develops a fascination with astronomy and, parallelly, an obsession with the mysterious figure of Maria Veduva, a 19th century astronomer who lived in Aldleigh until she, seemingly, disappeared without a trace while on the cusp of a major discovery. Thomas worships at the Bethesda chapel in the town, a community of strict Baptists who try to lead a life detached from the modern world. But it is no spoiler (it is a fact revealed early on in the novel) that Thomas is a closet homosexual, who indulges in occasional same-sex dalliances in the city. He effectively leads a double life : “in Bethesda ... the worst of sinners, and in London the strangest of saints”. One of the reasons drawing Thomas back to Bethesda is Grace Macauley, the daughter of the community’s preacher, orphaned of her mother who died at her birth. Thomas acts as a sort of godfather to Grace, and feels responsible for ensuring that, through him, she sees enough of the outside world to enable to survive outside the rigid yet protective boundaries of her community. Enlightenment is divided into three parts set in different years, roughly at intervals of a decade: 1997, 2008 and 2018. The passage of time shows us both Thomas and Grace growing up (or growing old), both yearning for the simpler life of Bethesda as they are unsettled by unexpected attractions – Grace is drawn to Nathan, a boy of her age from outside the Baptist community, whereas Thomas develops a crush on James Bower, the curator of the local museum, with whom he investigates the shadowy history of Maria Veduva. Throughout, the heavens act as a real and metaphorical backdrop to the story, a poetical lens through which to read the themes of the book. Enlightenment left me in two minds, at times in awe of its brilliance, at others frustrated by its quirks. What is most mystifying is that these elements are often the two sides of the same coin. So let me start with some things I liked about the novel. First and foremost, I loved the fact that Perry tackles religious subjects head on. “Religion” is not simply a quaint plot-driver for her. The novel is a theological one which grapples with such themes as God, faith, doubt, sin, forgiveness, suffering, redemption, love. Outside of the “Christian fiction” market I cannot think of many major contemporary novelists who make of theology a focal point of their work. Another element I liked in the novel is that, in what is ultimately a “novel of ideas”, Perry has no qualms about including elements of genre fiction. The Maria Veduva thread provides opportunities for mystery, suspense and even a touch of the Gothic (particularly in Maria’s ghostly figure, which accompanies Thomas like a guide). My disappointment here lies in the fact that the development of this narrative sometimes seems rather half-hearted and in certain respects unconvincing. In a novel, I like an original narrative voice. Enlightenment certainly provides one although it needs some getting used to. The novel, in fact, is written in a style with a Biblical and Victorian ring to it. I found this perplexing at the start, until I realised that this is meant to evoke the pen of Thomas Hart – his newspaper columns are interwoven into the text, and the novel itself is, possibly, the work he is shown to be working on in his final years. The problem is that the style of old-fashioned Thomas Hart, while giving the novel its unique flavour, can become heavygoing, which is an issue in what is a longish book. To sum up, I feel conflicted about this book. One part of me considers this a great work – a haunting story with interesting characters, a major literary effort exploring big existential themes. Another part of me found some aspects of the novel rather artificial, as if one could glimpse the machinery in action behind the facade. I would still recommend it, but be warned that it is something of an acquired taste. https://endsoftheword.blogspot.com/20...

4.5 I loved this beautifully written and crafted book that also reunited me with Cora and William from ‘the Essex Serpent’. It’s a slow read that includes a mystery and needs to be savoured. A poster on the Booker list group, whom I disagreed with, derided the selection as ‘pure Richard and Judy- historical fiction with nothing new style wise’. On the contrary ‘enlightenment’ isn’t truly historical nor is the style predictable. I know nothing about astronomy but do remember the Hale-Bopp comet. I do know a fair amount about the Christian religion, which is an important part of the narrative, with some biblical quotes. The author grew up in a strict Baptist household so there’s some autofiction here. The characters are well developed and in the case of Grace and Nathan their adult lives are complicated by physical and emotional trauma. Thomas Hart leads a double life which brings in a LGBT theme. The ghost of Maria is used to good effect as are hers and Grace’s clothes. I can see the links with Possession by AS Byatt, but although this isn’t as long, it might benefit from better editing as there’s some repetition. Stylistically the long paragraphs and epistolary style don’t appeal to all readers but they worked well for me. Other themes include sexuality, otherness, faith, grief, mental health, father/daughter relationships, generational friendships, physical torture/ptsd and unrequited love. I loved all the nature references especially in the last three pages where all the threads are tied up. One line in particular ‘Blackberries in the verges are dropping sugar on the bones of the deer’ resonates at this time of year. I hope this is shortlisted and I would like to discuss it further in A group that appreciates good literary fiction. The bbc is doing an adaptation read by Nicola walker which is very good. Although Alex Jennings sounded his usual superb self in the audible preview Nicola gets the atmosphere just right. Her ability with reading women’s voices brought out the character of Lorna more, someone i had forgotten. I’ve now listened to the whole thing and it’s one of the best BAB for a while. Today i attended a WEA zoom meeting on caroline Herschel who is rather like the fictional Maria who also discovered comets. There is an excellent LRB podcast with Sarah and Helen Macdonald talking about physics, astrology and religion amongst other topics

I have never read Sarah Perry before and rarely read literary fiction, but I decided to give Enlightenment a shot. There is a religious and philosophical aspect to the story that I didn't always understand, and sometimes it felt a bit like speculative fiction as well. However, the themes of love and friendship came through perfectly, and I loved the various elements Perry used throughout the book. There are multiple timelines, but they are in chronological order minus various media throughout which could get confusing if you aren't paying attention and listening to the audiobook. I loved Alex Jennings as the narrator for the audio, and while I haven't listened to many audiobooks with him, I love it when I do. He is really easy to understand, so I had no issues listening at my normal 3x speed. I did notice I had to be alert and actively listening, so it might be a good idea to either read Enlightenment or at least follow along in the book if you are worried. I enjoyed the astrology pieces of the book even though I do think there would have been some way to make these elements clearer to readers like me who don't know anything about it. The ghost and paranormal bits were done in an interesting manner, and I will definitely say this author has a very unique writing style that might be too smart for me.

2024 Booker Longlist I've heard it said that at the first sip from the glass of the natural sciences you will become an atheist - then at the bottom of the glass, God will be waiting for you This atheist is still sipping from the top of the glass and enjoyed this novel more than what she expected to. I enjoyed the flowery, almost Victorian, writing style. I enjoyed the talk of the night sky interrupted by fleeting comets. I enjoyed the ghostly mystery that haunted the pages. I usually enjoyed spending time with these characters and their imperfect found family relationships. I didn't even mind having a peek inside their church now and then. The relentless orbiting of their unrequited loves didn't even bother me. In someways it made the book. If it made the Booker shortlist I don't think I'd be unhappy. I wonder in the case of the world and and everything in it - you, me, the moon and the water - consists not of solitary beings, but rather out of how each thing relates to another, so that in the end it is only out of connection that the whole world is made

Enlightenment is a novel about science and faith, as two unlikely friends push at the edges of belief and love. Thomas Hart and Grace Macauley both worship at Bethesda in the Essex town of Aldleigh, long time friends despite being very different ages. When Thomas meets James Bower, and they are drawn into the mystery of nineteenth century astronomer Maria Veduva, he falls in love, but as they are frustrated in their searches for Maria's history, Thomas realises that James doesn't love him in the same way. And Grace meets Nathan, a teenager with no connection to Bethesda, and is caught between different kinds of love and faith, until one moment throws all of them apart. This is a hard book to describe, with the feeling of a historical novel at times despite being set in the 90s onwards, and with the narrative intercut with Thomas' articles for the local paper. It is about different kinds of beliefs, from religious to astronomy to love, and Perry mingles all of these ideas together in a way that transcends any of them, really. The book focuses in on very human moments and emotions, such as love that wasn't meant to be, and the seemingly small things people do that have huge consequences, and you really feel this from the way it moves perspective, the narrative voice flying through Aldleigh at times to show you what is going on. Both Thomas' and Grace's stories are moving, particularly Thomas' slow realisations of how things might seem or impact other people differently, and in the importance of just knowing people. The depiction of a gay man who had grown up in a faith that made him feel ashamed of that is gripping and sad, but also he does find purpose and peace, not the least within astronomy and science. Grace's narrative is perhaps a more traditional 'grown up within a particular church and then leave it' one, but again, with a lot of wistful longing for what might've been. Enlightenment isn't necessarily the sort of book I'd immediately pick out, but I was interested by Thomas' story from the blurb, and actually the book was complex and bittersweet.

Thomas and Grace, kindred spirits from Aldleigh, are torn between religion and the world beyond. Their friendship is tested by romantic relationships, leading Thomas to obsess over a vanished astronomer and Grace to flee to London. Sarah Perry, she of The Essex Serpent, is in her familiar form with Enlightenment. She nails the densely atmospheric and utterly immersive setting. Her characters are fully realized — personalities that balance a light touch but also are so fleshed out that they become familiar and feel knowable over the course of the novel. However, her story falters and wobbles a bit here and there — and any story-related problem that might have existed in The Essex Serpent, feels more pronounced in Enlightenment. The supernatural elements feel tangential to the main story of Thomas and Grace, the overly pious injections that direct actions taken by Grace and her family feel like very pointed statements directly from Perry herself, despite feeling like she's not quite sure what exactly she's saying with them. Regardless, Enlightenment, a unique and captivating tale, is still stamped with Perry's excellent craftsmanship in both setting and character set on a slow simmer to bring out the best in both.

I did a 180 degree turn from hating this to loving this somewhere in the middle and I can’t pinpoint why

Sits on the same shelf as THE ESSEX SERPENT (duh) and also THE LUMINARIES and also probably GILEAD if I had to guess! It's about people who sin in really particular ways, and how our insane and warped personal worldviews color how we see each other's particular sin. Everyone's got a log, specks are everywhere, and no one knows what to do about them. Except! Perry gets very George Macdonald by the end, all "it is by loving, and not by being loved, that one can come nearest to the soul of another" ... second duh! It also reminds me of John Mark McMillan's Peopled With Dreams album from 2019, sorry for the throwback. Weird circular thoughts about how time isn't linear and hearts need taming because wild horses die young and how everything that has happened or will happen is happening right now... anyway :)

Perry’s writing is so rich and beautiful. The initial chapters are set in 1997 but the language and descriptions have you imagining 1887, where the original mystery of Maria Vaduva begins. The themes are numerous: faith, astronomy, love and destiny to name a few. A lot to unpick and dwell on.

Sarah Perry has created quite a unique plot here. I wasn't sure if it was going to work for me at first, but I shouldn't have doubted her after what she did with The Essex Serpent. Although I didn't like this quite as well, this is still a beautifully written, heart rendering novel. She continues to explore the ways that religion and science can exist side by side. Although it's not absolutely essential, you might want to read The Essex Serpent first because there's a neat little Easter egg that connects the two.

Lovely book about friend and family, religion, astronomy feminism. It’s got everything going on!

4.5 ✨ An astrophil story about friendship, loss, (be)longing, and a comet (re)appearing in the sky. I was touched how well Perry links astronomical phenomena with the human condition, showing how gazing at the stars - and comets - can connect us through space and time and help us find each other again and again. It took me a while to get used to the tone & style of Perry but the second half flowed with more ease and contained so many wonderful passages. Definitely one of my fav. books of this year! 💫

The incredibly talented Cassandra Campbell narrates Claire Messud’s autofiction tome “This Strange Eventful History”. The audio is over 16 hours in length, covering seven decades, of this French family without a homeland. Ms. Campbell’s expansive linguistic skills including different accents, cadence, voice inflections, of the varying characters in the story made this a remarkable listening experience. Messud’s paternal grandfather handwrote a memoir for his granddaughters. She used the memoir as an outline for her fictional story. She includes the French colonization of different countries, such as Algeria, in addition to WWII and Germany’s assault on France which adds to the displacement of Messaud’s fictious family, the Cassar’s. Although the family history begins in 1927 with Gaston Cassar marrying the love of his life, 13 years his senior (which the reader learns more about in the epilogue), Lucienne, the story opens in June of 1940 when the Germans conquered Paris. At the time, Gaston is serving at the consulate in Greece. His wife Lucienne and their two children have fled Greece and are in their family home in Algeria. History intervenes again when Algeria won independence from France in 1962, and the family was exiled. Messud allots time and space for each family member, including the granddaughters. Francois and Denise are Gaston and Lucienne’s children. Francois marries Barbara and they have two daughters. Each of these characters are relegated to their own personal story in which the reader become involved. Again, it was Cassandra Campbell’s theatrical skills that kept me listening. Messaud’s writing shows how political history, along with personal choices, affects lives, certainly her family’s lives. I highly recommend the audio. The story is perfect for narration. While Campbell narrated, I pictured clearly in my mind, the story. This would make a fine film.

This book snuck up on me. Like its surprising ending! At first, I thought it was too disjointed and unsatisfying for that reason - we start with one family member and then leap a decade into the future and find ourselves in the life of someone else. But the layers actually all add up to create very rich characterizations and a weighty and fascinating story. At the end, it becomes a story about the end of life and love at the end of life for two different generations. As the child of elderly parents who are devoted to one another, there was so much that resonated for me in these chapters. by the end, I was very emotionally involved and also wowed by Messud’s craft.

I read this for a reading group and it gave us so much to discuss. It is only the second book I have read by Claire Messud. I read her debut, When the World Was Steady, many years ago, did not get on with it, so never read another until now. This Strange Eventful History is at once strange, eventful, and historical. One needs to pay attention, look at maps and tolerate many shifts, much emotion. (There are maps in the hardcover but I had to make my own family tree.) The payoff for all that, however, is huge. From Algeria to France to South America to Canada to the United States, this family grew and changed and managed to stay connected. Now I have changed my mind and plan to explore more of Claire Messud’s work. She took her own family and turned it into fiction. A feat in itself.

This is a mostly autobiographical novel that covers 3 generations of the author’s family. It begins with the Nazi invasion of France. Gaston is the patriarch, born in French Algeria and a member of the French navy. He and his wife Lucienne are devoted to each other and have children Francois and Denise. Francois and his wife and their children live all over the world as do the whole family. They live through devastating world events. Gaston is stationed in Salonica, Greece, at the beginning where 40,000 Jews were deported to their deaths at Auschwitz. The fight for independence in Algeria. The waffling of the French navy in its decision whether to support the Nazi invaders or the Free French. I’m uneasy with the idea of a life as a novel. I didn’t think I demanded plot in a novel but then again. A novel like this is one event after another, no real arc. But the author addressed this! “Life… was not a fiction. When I read a novel or watched a film, I could so often predict what would happen next. Plot felt to me inevitable. But in life, turns were not programmed or decided, and we had agency over only some small aspects of our stories.” A very satisfying and propulsive read.

Who among us hasn't thought that our family story would be perfect for a novel? Claire Messud has written that novel about her family. This bighearted, cosmopolitan family saga begins in 1940 at the start of World War II and continues for three generations until 2010. While the names have been changed (for the most part) and the intimate conversations, fierce arguments, private thoughts, and hopeful dreams have been embellished with this novelist's rich imagination, the bones of the story are based on fact. And those facts take us around the world—from Algeria to Australia to Argentina, from New England to England, from Canada to France. It's all over the map—literally. We first meet Gaston and Lucienne Cassar, a couple who married with a huge age difference—she is13 years older than he is—and were utterly devoted to one another through a life that no one would describe as easy. They are French, but they think of their home as Algiers. Gaston is the French naval attaché and diplomat and so the family moves a lot. They have two children, François (the author's father) and Denise. François is a brilliant academic with a troubled and miserable marriage to Barbara, a Canadian, while fragile, tightly-wound Denise never marries and suffers multiple bouts of depression. François, who is irascible, a heavy smoker, and an alcoholic, and Barbara have two children, Loulou and Chloe (Chloe being the fictional version of the author). The final chapter—the epilogue—takes us back to 1927 when a secret about Gaston and Lucienne—often hinted at during the novel, but never revealed—is shockingly exposed. And it's a big one! There is no plot, per se, but rather a rich, profound, and dramatic narrative about the lives of these people as the years pass and their relationships with each other become more complex and tangled—and more secrets are revealed. More subtle is the nod to Shakespeare's "As You Like It." Both the title of the book and the idea that a human life has seven ages come from the play—and there are seven sections in the book that mirror this.

This is one of those books where I may not fully unpack how I feel about it for a while. It was so personal and I cannot imagine the work of trying to fully inhabit the minds of so many close relatives… to fully and without judgement explore their motivations and hopes and doubts and loves. The book is so thoroughly personal and never quite goes where you think it will and to put something like that out into the world is what makes her a good writer… also she is a dope wordsmith

An impressive, sprawling family narrative that (a bit like Pachinko) does an excellent job sketching out the members of that family with depth and subtlety. I felt it lost steam at the end as we came closer to the present, but enjoyed dwelling in this world. The ending is going to provoke some strong reactions…

As I read, I wondered if this family saga was a memoir of sorts and it seems to be at least in part based on the author’s family history which she explains at the end. It’s a fascinating and at times very sad story of French Algerian expats who never really seem to have a place that’s home. There is a lot of resilience and love in the family. Also some mental illness. At times some of the family member’s “chapters” felt a bit repetitive, tedious, and dense and thus 4 versus 5 stars. For a while I thought I’d give this 3 stars but it grew on me and there were parts of it I loved and found perfect. The final scenes of the two patriarchs deaths are quite well done.

4.5 stars! Elizabeth Strout has the most binge-able writing style -- I can't wait to go and read everything else she has ever written... immediately.

Dear Ms. Strout is bringing back to Amgash series and author Lucy Burton with the third novel by taking us emotional journey about her ex husband William, the daughters they raised, her loss of her husbands,the career she built, confidence she gained, her walk down to the memory lane of her childhood. It was so illuminating to hear a clear, real, genuine, natural voice talks with you honestly, sharing her memories, coming clean about her complex feelings, self critiquing about herself, her life choices and the realistic friendship she’s formed with her husband William for years even their marriage failed, her sincerity and the way she tells her story like you’re talking to her face to face while you’re sharing a bottle of wine easily help you to connect with her! She’s getting through a lot... poverty, neglect, punishment, loneliness from her childhood... freedom, self discovery, experiencing new things at college and marriage with William...her relationship with her mother in law Catherine who mostly act so kind around her but also made her question about her self worth... the betrayal of her husband... the invisible wall she’s built around them... Stressful Cayman island trips, khaki shorts, disinterest about golf, losing the safety she felt for her husband...divorce...finding her own worth... learning to express herself via words...experiencing more relationships...helping William when he hits the bottom as like he helped him to get through the loss her husband... being one who is keeping his secrets for years... Years have passed... they married with different people... they evolved, they changed, they got older but they were always for each other for the hardest times they’ve been getting through... A honest, emotional, unique story is told by one of sincerest, direct storyteller Lucy Barton who is created by skillful Pulitzer Prize winner author! Of course Olive will always be my favorite character she gave birth but this book helped me to resonate with Lucy Barton as well when I have a chance to know more about her! Special thanks to NetGalley and Random House Publishing Group for sharing this digital reviewer copy with me in exchange my honest opinions.

This is a short novel that packs a big punch. In Oh William, we follow Lucy Barton, later in her life, as she reflects on her relationships with her family and her first husband, William. Not long after the passing of Lucy’s second husband, Lucy ends up offering her support to William when he receives some surprising news. William has discovered that he has a long-lost relative his mother had never previously mentioned. The pair go on a trip to try to reconnect with this newly found relative. This book is a short one - it’s comprised of two chapters and is told entirely from Lucy’s perspective. It’s easy to finish in one sitting. There is not much plot, but it was nice to float along with Lucy’s narrative. I thought there were some great insights on childhood trauma and how the effects of that can carry on into adulthood. One example is how Lucy’s abusive upbringing left her uncertain on how she was supposed to behave “correctly” in her new social sphere as an adult. The second half of the novel is when I became invested in Lucy’s story. Lucy's relationship with William after their divorce was both sweet, funny, and slightly painful. Overall, I enjoyed this conclusion to the Amgash series. I only wish there was more of it! Thank you to Netgalley and Random House Publishing Group for the arc in exchange for my honest opinions.

Oh William! But seriously, for most of the book I was thinking Oh Lucy! Oh, how I loved having Lucy Barton back. Lucy's second husband, David Abramson, has passed away and Lucy is looking back on her life, her first marriage to William Gerhardt, with whom she has two daughters. While David was the perfect husband, William was a cheater and yet, he and Lucy have remained close, confiding in each other, and supporting each other. In this book, William will learn some truths about his family. Lucy is telling her tale through a conversation with the reader. At 63, she has come a long way from when we first met her. She has grown, is a published author and mother. She has her insights and observations. This book is just as much about her as it is William. As Lucy looks back on her marriage, having children and moving on, she begins to see her ex-husband and herself in a new light. This is a book about relationships, about mental health, about being a parent, about feelings both resolved and unresolved, about awareness and about insight. Strout knows how to get to the nitty gritty of human emotion. Her books focus on relationships and contain unique and interesting characters. If she writes it, I am going to read it! Strout delivers every-single-time! Thank you to Random House Publishing Group and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own. Read more of my reviews at www.openbookposts.com

Now shortlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize - which (having first read the book in June 2021) lead my to a second read as part of a back to back re-read of the four Amgash series books: “My Name is Lucy Barton”, “Anything is Possible”, “Oh, William” and “Lucy By The Sea” (due to be published October 2022). I think the best way to regard this series is as a series of three novels – which are ideally read as back to back due to the way they strongly complement each other and with the short story collection “Anything Is Possible” seen as more of a companion volume. This book was 9th in my Booker longlist rankings - my Bookstagram rating, ranking, summary review and Book themed Golden Retriever photo is here: https://www.instagram.com/p/ChYcUdIo3... 2021 REVIEW “Because I am a novelist, I have to write this almost like a novel, but it is true – as true as I can make it. And I want to say – oh, it is difficult to know what to say” This novel is the third in Elizabeth Strout’s “Amgash” series – although perhaps better thought of as her Lucy Barton collection after the first novel in that series “My Name is Lucy Barton”. This book is I think best seen as a fairly direct sequel to that novel and best read back to back with it (with “Anything is Possible” a companion set of short stories which illuminate both novels). As an aside I was typing this review while listening to the Women's Prize online short list reading event featuring Yaa Gyasi and Claire Fuller - and both when asked for a writer than inspired them picked Elizabeth Strout (and Yaa Gyasi specifically "My Name is Lucy Barton" for its depiction of mother-daughter relationships) In that book we hear something of Lucy’s first husband William – of his upbringing (son of a girl who ran away with an ex German Prisoner of War on his return to America) and of the early disintegration of their marriage with its roots in Lucy’s spell in hospital which is the centrepiece of the novel. But we do not hear too much as Lucy as a writer (for the conceit of the novel is that it is actually a book written by Lucy years later when she is a successful novelist – at least in the eyes of others) is unable to tell it, as she says there …….. This is not the story of my marriage, I cannot tell that story: I cannot take hold of it, or lay out for anyone, the many swamps and grasses and pockets of fresh air and dank air that have gone over us. But I can tell you this; My mother was right: I had trouble in my marriage. And when the girls were nineteen and twenty years old, I left their father, and we have both remarried. There are days when I feel I love him more than I did when I was married to him, but that is an easy thing to think – we are free of each other, and yet not, and never will be. But in this novel, set many years later, starts by contrast “I would like to say a few things about my first husband, William. William has lately been through some very sad events – many of us have – but I would like to mention them, it feels almost like a compulsion; he is seventy one years old. My second husband, David, died last year, and in my grief for him I have felt grief for William as well” As circumstances/events in her own life and that of William (the break up of a marriage, some news on his mother’s early life) both change the dynamic of the relationship between Lucy and William (and their two now adult children), while giving Lucy the chance to finally tell the story of her marriage, a story written in and around the story of what happens to her and William after these events – a story which, just like the conversations with her mother on the hospital bed allow Lucy to obliquely re-evaluate her own past, her actions and character and the actions of others. Just as in the first novel the most heart-wrenching parts of the book are when Lucy reflects on small (or sometimes large) acts of kindness from others which she still remembers to this day - the impacts of which, the reader intuits, would astonish those who did them. And I think it is in that spirit that the moving dedication “And to anyone who needs it – this is for you” is written. In some cases also Lucy reflects on the equally lasting impact of more hurtful remarks or expressions – again one feels that the person making them would never have realised the harm of their remarks. And this I think gets to another key part of the novel – Lucy’s increasing realisation that, despite being a novelist writing realist fiction, it is almost impossible to know what others think, feel or believe – a brave allusion for Elizabeth Strout as an author famous for what Hilary Mantel calls her “perfect attunement to the human condition”. Overall I think a must read for any fans of Lucy Barton. But when I think Oh William!, don’t I mean Oh Lucy! too? Don’t I mean Oh Everyone, Oh dear Everybody in this whole wide world, we do not know anybody, not even ourselves! Except a little tiny, tiny bit we do. But we are all mythologies, mysterious. We are all mysteries, is what I mean. This may be the only thing in the world I know to be true.

Now Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2022 Okay, so frankly, I assumed this book would be frumpy, as this is the whole design vibe of Elizabeth Strout's novels, but I was clearly wrong: Yes, this is very conservative storytelling, but it is highly effective and intelligent in an Anne Tyler-like way, as it focuses on psychological writing that contemplates the quiet drama of life. Giving a masterclass in secondary orality (still not sure whether this expression is used in English, but I mean that the story is told as if the narrative voice is talking rather than writing), our protagonist and narrator is Lucy Barton, a successful writer who has recently lost her beloved second husband, David. The title-giving William is her first husband and father of her two grown daughters, who, after David has died, is left by his third wife and finds out that he has a half-sister he knew nothing about. Lucy, with whom he has remained friendly, tries to support William under these difficult circumstances. No, this is not a cliched novel about two lovers finding their way back to each other late in life; rather, it is a family novel about what binds people together and what that says about them. Lucy contemplates what motivated her decisions, as well as those of William and his mother Catherine, who left behind a husband and a daughter to marry a German POW. As a German, I was intrigued that Strout writes about German intergenerational trauma: William is troubled that his father fought on the side of the Nazis, and these experiences of the second and third generation after WW II, the shame of national and familial past, is a major topic in contemporary German literature. I was also impressed how Strout conveys the layers of classism and the importance of habitus, and how people who climb the social ladder might be frightened and feel guilt when crossing class lines. The complex dynamic between William, an old white scientist in crisis, and grief-stricken Lucy is masterfully written and what kept me turning the pages, as those characters, flawed and relatable, are just fantastic. The short paragraphs mimick Lucy's process of thinking and rememberance, and it's a pleasure to read So thanks, Booker, for finally making me pick up Strout, I will definitely read the other parts of this series!

**Many thanks to NetGalley, Michael Hoak at Random House, and Elizabeth Strout for an ARC of this book! Now available as of 10.19!** When Laura Linney inspires you to write the book...you WRITE THE BOOK. Encouraged by Linney's character study of Lucy Barton for a play, Elizabeth Strout used this idea as a springboard to explore Lucy Barton (first fittingly introduced in My Name Is Lucy Barton) and her marriage to her previous husband William and all that transpired between them over the course of their own relationships, as well as their other marriages. When William approaches Lucy for a favor, the two embark on a quick journey to uncover family secrets and Lucy takes the reader through various glimpses of her past, present, and future with William and their children...with plenty of wistful "Oh, Williams" thrown in throughout. Has she made the right decisions over time to remain true to her ever-changing relationship with William, her previous husbands...or even herself? As a Strout newbie who hasn't read either of the previous Barton books, I was a bit apprehensive about diving into what is essentially the third installment of this series. However, Strout's writing pulled me in pretty quickly, and Lucy is a character who is a fabulous storyteller---much like the grandmother who can launch from tale to tale without meandering or getting off course. I got a sense of her quickly and her complex feelings for and about William ebbed and flowed, keeping me on my toes. This book reads like a play in and of itself, and I could almost see the spotlight coming up on Lucy as she addressed the audience from a barstool, moving from vignette to vignette in her life. Where background would certainly be helpful and enhance the reading experience in this case, this book can function as a stand-alone if it catches you just right, and it did work for me. Some sort of emotional connection to Lucy and/or William is pretty much essential for this to happen though, so those with an established bond with Lucy and her life will probably glean even more from this read than I did. Oh William! gave me pause to reflect on marriage, family, and the trajectory life can take when that delicate balance is disrupted or even thrown off-kilter entirely. Moving and thought-provoking, Oh William! has absolutely inspired me to get to know Lucy Barton better--and to hope that one day we get to see what the next chapter of her story looks like--maybe even on the stage (with none other than the fabulous Laura Linney, I hope!) 4 ⭐

Oh William! by Elizabeth Strout was the third and final book in this trilogy. Even though I had not had the opportunity to read the first and second book in this trilogy, I felt that it was more than fine to read Oh William as a stand-alone book. It was both moving and memorable in its prose as only Elizabeth Strout could accomplish. Oh William was most definitely a character driven novel and the characters stayed with me long after I finished this book. At some point, I hope to go back and read the first book in this trilogy at least. I listened to the audio CD of Oh William that was read flawlessly by Kimberly Farr as well as reading some parts on my kindle. Lucy Barton had recently become a widow. Her beloved husband had died and she was still grieving for him. Lucy had maintained a good relationship with her first husband, William, even after they had divorced and she had remarried. Since William had become divorced from Lucy, he had had three new wives and a daughter with one of them. Lucy and William had had two daughters together and they were now grown. William always presented as a mystery to Lucy. She still didn’t understand him completely but they remained close. Lucy had become a successful and well known author over the years. Her career allowed her to lead a comfortable life. She was still haunted by her awful childhood and as a result still had difficulty assimilating into her more affluent and richer life she now led. Lucy’s and William’s relationship was revealed throughout the novel. They still met every so often and had breakfast together and they invited each other to family celebrations. It was a most unusual relationship but it worked for them. Then William discovered a long buried family secret and he persuaded Lucy to accompany him on a road trip to help him learn if it was true. The trip and the information they uncovered impacted both of their lives and their relationship after the truth was revealed. Oh William by Elizabeth Strout was about loneliness, betrayal, life, marriage, relationships, regrets, reflection and family secrets. It was so well written. I really enjoyed reading Oh William and highly recommend it. Thank you to Random House for allowing me to read Oh William by Elizabeth Strout through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. All opinions expressed in this review are completely my own.

I have read ‘Olive Kitteridge’, ‘Olive, Again’, and ‘My Name is Lucy Barton’ and liked them a lot. “Anything is Possible” I found overall to be depressing, but I admired Strout’s writing and very much liked one of the chapters/stories in the book, ‘Sisters’. I got verklempt twice while reading this book. 😥 At times especially early on in the book I felt ‘Elizabeth Strout is writing this’ (i.e., that I was jarred away from being immersed in the novel as an observer, and being aware of Elizabeth Strout’s writing...or as one GR friend said...'it pulls me out of the narrative to hear the writer writing’)...but I guess for the most part I felt I was listening to Lucy. There were lots of things to like about the book. • It did not end up with (view spoiler). • I liked the conversation between Lucy and William on free will and that often we do not choose...we just ‘do’. William: ...Once every so often — at the very most — I think someone actually chooses something. Otherwise we’re following — something we don’t know what it is but we follow it, Lucy.’ ||| And Lucy: A friend had said to me once, “Whenever I don’t know what to do, I watch what I’m doing.” • And I liked her observation that sometimes we are more apt to open up in front of a stranger than a close friend: “...many people can’t say to those they know well what is it they feel they might want to say”. Reviews: • By Jennifer Egan.. https://www.nytimes.com/2021/10/18/bo... • https://www.theguardian.com/books/202... • https://www.scotsman.com/arts-and-cul...

4.5 If you read Strout before you know what to expect - clear, concise writing and a lot of introspection, pondering and realism. We are back into Lucy Barton's world. We first met her in My Name is Lucy Barton and later in Anything is Possible. This is a stand-alone novel, so it's not necessary to have read the previous two books, although why wouldn't you - Strout's characterisations and insights into people's inner worlds are wondrous. In her latest, Strout comes back to William, Lucy Barton's first husband and the father of her two daughters. Lucy is now sixty-three years old and recently widowed. William is turning seventy, is married to a much younger woman and is the father of a ten-year-old daughter. Lucy and William's relationship is amicable - they still get together for catch-ups and for family dos. When William's world is upended, he turns to Lucy. She is quite obliging and kind. Of course, there are recollections of their life together and past grievances and misunderstandings resurface and are analysed. What came through for me, yet again, is that we never truly know anyone. Oh William! is another well realised, insightful novel from Elizabeth Strout, who's yet to disappoint me. I received this ARC in exchange for an honest review. Many thanks to the publishers, Penguin General UK - Fig Tree, Hamish Hamilton, Viking, Penguin Life, Penguin Business, Viking - for the opportunity to read and review this novel.

I don't know why it took me so long to place Elizabeth Strout firmly in the Very Very Good Writer category, maybe because her work can feel so effortless and straightforward, maybe because many of her books are connected stories and I tend to be more of a regular-novel reader. Whatever the reason, this year having finally read MY NAME IS LUCY BARTON and now OH WILLIAM! I am officially a serious fan. Lucy Barton was deeply affecting for me, for a variety of personal reasons, and this novel follows up with the same characters many years later. It is also written as a "memoir" by the fictional Lucy, and while it's not absolutely required to read LUCY before this novel, I would recommend it. You won't have the same investment and understanding of who everyone is without that background. And many of the themes of LUCY come back here, though now our primary vehicle isn't Lucy but her first husband William. LUCY was about class and generational trauma and the difficulties that come from having been raised in poverty, and having been raised by parents who were neglectful and abusive. William, though, seems to have a very different story. There is the shady story of his parents' background, she left behind a husband to run away with William's father, a German POW. But this story has been framed as romantic and ideal, as has William's inheritance of money likely made from war profiteering from his father's German family. William is the kind of man who can turn any of these stories into a narrative where he comes out looking good. He is about 70, successful, with his much-younger third wife. He and Lucy are now friendly, the rancor of their divorce far behind them. But over the course of the novel William's present circumstances change. And then, on top of that, he discovers that the story of his family and where he came from is not what he thought it was. And this, for Lucy, answers some of the questions she's had for a long time about who William is to her, why she was able to become who she is. It is once again about mothers and the long shadow they can cast on their children, even when they are long dead and the child himself is an old man. Lucy is such a fascinating narrator and I wish someone could explain to me how Strout's prose around her is so seemingly plain, and yet how it packs such a punch, how it is so addictively readable. I read this book in one sitting, and the emotions of it washed over me like rain. Lucy is curious and thoughtful, she is sympathetic to William although she has not forgotten the ways he mistreated her. She is hard on herself, still bearing much of the responsibility for the divorce on her own shoulders. (She has also had a long, and apparently deeply loving second marriage, which is a balm because poor Lucy certainly deserves it.) She is gentle with William, gentler than I would be, the title coming from her frequent pronouncement, whenever she encounters him being suddenly confronted with some rather obvious conclusion that baffles him. William is often baffled, he is often unwilling to acknowledge the truth even when it's right in front of him. But Lucy's patience is a deep part of her character, which you may recall from the previous book, where she also shows a surprising amount of grace towards her mother. Like LUCY I found this often hard to relate to. I am much harder on people than Lucy is, I would not have been kind to my mother the way she is and I would not still be kind to William the way she is. But even if I don't always understand Lucy, I enjoy spending time with her, I enjoy her patience. At first I wasn't sure I wanted another book from her and certainly not one about her first husband but I'm so happy to have had it.

“Why are we here?” I asked William. “Tell me again.” And he said, “Because this is where Lois Bubar’s husband came from. Don’t you listen?” And I thought, Oh William. Jesus, William. This is what I thought. The third volume in Elizabeth Strout’s Amgash Series, Oh William! follows My Name is Lucy Barton and Anything is Possible, and while I may not have found this to be quite as impactful as the first two in the series, I did find it gentle and thoughtful and a lovely way to spend a couple of afternoons. We’re back in Lucy Barton’s head, and what a fraught place that is to be as Lucy joins her first husband William — still each other’s best and oldest friend despite many years divorced — as William navigates a pair of disruptive circumstances; and whether they are travelling together or picking up the phone to call the other the moment something significant happens in either of their lives, Lucy and William are frequently confronted with hard pearls of truth about themselves (as offered by the person who knows them best in the world) or they are forced to revisit and reevaluate memories from the past. Everything about this novel feels true to life — particularly the unedited storytelling style that Lucy employs as she attempts to explain what she means at every moment (and I’d imagine it takes a lot of editing to make that voice seem so natural and spontaneous) — and I thoroughly enjoyed this read. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) Please try to understand this: I have always thought that if there was a big corkboard and on that board was a pin for every person who ever lived, there would be no pin for me. I feel invisible, is what I mean. But I mean it in the deepest way. It is very hard to explain. And I cannot explain it except to say — oh, I don’t know what to say! Truly, it is as if I do not exist, I guess is the closest thing I can say. I mean I do not exist in the world. It could be as simple as the fact that we had no mirrors in our house when I was growing up except for a very small one high above the bathroom sink. I really do not know what I mean, except to say that on some very fundamental level, I feel invisible in the world. I quoted this passage because it demonstrates what I mean by Lucy’s “unedited” storytelling style — for a successful author, Lucy seems to really struggle to express herself in words and I was constantly struck by the thought, “Just who is she telling all this to?” — but I also like it because as a successful author, Lucy is repeatedly being recognised in her travels — asked to sign some books in a library, seeing her novels on a stranger’s bookshelf, having details from her memoir quoted back to her — I can’t imagine anyone feeling less invisible (which makes for a nice irony). Even as she approaches seventy years old, despite William calling her “self-absorbed”, Lucy isn’t terribly self-aware. But when I think Oh William!, don’t I mean Oh Lucy! too? Don’t I mean Oh Everyone, Oh dear Everybody in this whole wide world, we do not know anybody, not even ourselves! Over the course of this novel, Lucy and William will each gain some self-awareness (thanks to moments of exasperated honesty, always followed by gentler words), and while Lucy’s memories of their marriage make it clear that it wasn’t good for either of them, it’s the action in the present that explains why they’re still so close — when William needs to take a trip to his past, who else would he take along but the only one who was there with him? Interesting things do happen in this book, but it’s not really about the plot: the voice, the relationship, the growing self-knowledge, these all add up to a satisfying reading experience that made me pleased to have spent a bit more time with Lucy Barton. Rounding up to four stars.

This series has been consistently good for me. William is a brat. Ugh. So glad Lucy took decisive action concerning him in the first book.

Lucy Barton is a writer, William is her ex husband. They have two adult daughters, Chrissy and Becka. Despite the fact Lucy left William they have remained in contact, yet William is almost as much a mystery to her now as he was when she was married to him. Lucy had a close and interesting relationship with Catherine Cole, William’s mother. Or thought she did until a short time before Catherine died. There are also some references to Lucy’s second husband David who died. When William learns a family secret he asks Lucy to go with him to investigate. Lucy ponders the present and reminisces about these past as she seeks to set out her experiences, feelings and thoughts about William. This novel raises the question whether we really know anyone. This is my first foray into the world rid of Elizabeth Strout and her creation Lucy Barton. I was enticed by the glowing reviews from friends here on a Goodreads for her books. Have to say I was not disappointed. I very much enjoyed this perceptive and thoughtfully written novel that encompasses a lot about human nature and relationships.. It’s not so much a novel of plot but a character study of Lucy, William and others. Those who enjoy a gently written character study with complex characters should enjoy this. I heartily recommend it. Thanks to the friends here on Goodreads who recommended it. I will now investigate some of this author's author books.

'He could swear the woods have closed up behind him.' This continues my theory that getting on a boat in literature usually leads to a bummer time. But yet a good read. A consistent cycle of tragedy and trauma churns towards the next generation in Selva Almada’s Not a River, a story that serves as an urgent rebuke against submitting to feelings of fatalism and a plea to confront the social forces that drive it. Almada invokes an eerie elegance in this rather laconic tale of reminiscence and retribution where death casts a long shadow over a present always perched on the precipice of horror. Caught in its shadow are two lifelong friends who have come to a rural island river to fish with the teenage son of their friend who perished in the very same river. Sun-soaked into surreality and a sense of otherness amidst a threatening natural world, hostile locals and two mysterious sisters who catch their eye, each page portends disaster as an impending violence can be felt boiling underneath. Annie McDermott harnesses Almada’s prose as it winds like a river between past and present for a gorgeous translation certainly deserving of its shortlisting for the 2024 International Booker. Not a River is a brief yet powerful novella that enacts a chilling social horror through a deep look at masculinity wrapped up in broader issues of poverty, sexuality and violence set against the indifference of nature and human fragility. ‘A summer like this one. Twenty years back, a summer like this one. The same island or the next one along or the one after that. In the memory it's all just the island, with no name or exact coordinates.’ Central to Not a River is, in fact, a river—well ‘not a river, this river’—that takes on new meaning as the story flows around each narrative turn, it’s current carrying the two sets of characters as well as the past and present together. For the locals of this rural Argentinian island, they were ‘baptized by the river,’ for the visitors it is the source of warm memories of youth now waterlogged in grief at the loss of the friend who drowned there. But it is not just the river but the whole of the island and nature that comes alive like a character, interacting with the people and issuing a sense of foreboding with each branch shaking in the breeze. ‘This man isn’t from these woods and the woods are well aware. But they leave him be. He can come in, he can stay for as long as it takes to gather kindling. Then the woods themselves will spit him out, his arms full of branches, back to the shore’ Selva Almada excels at capturing a sense of eerie and creeping dread that makes the reader wonder if reality is about to be shredded into bloody taters as the abstract horrors underneath claw their way out. The tone of each scene is awash in disoriented unease where orange skies seem to be glowering in the gloam and even a house in daylight feels plunged into the darkness of a haunting—‘its scary in the silent, empty house, even though the sun is still shining’ Violence seems to crouch in every dark corner waiting to spring, and when Almada shines the beam of her prose to reveal the lurking dangers we find it to be unrestrained masculinity made all the more feral on a cocktail of grief and frustration. ‘A night like this, just like this, only darker.’ Almada cites Not a River as the third in a triptych of books aimed at investigating the effects of masculinity and violence, though readers can approach this without having any knowledge of The Wind That Lays Waste or Brickmakers to enjoy this one. Though readers familiar with Almada’s work will once again celebrate her stunning prose and familiar themes still rendered fresh. There is a signature sparseness to her writing that still feels spacious as where a lot is implied just off the page as the story stretches out its arms between past and present, and the imagery and symbolism fill a space far larger than their descriptions. Annie McDermott, who has translated several Almada works already, has a knack for capturing this in English and retaining the unique specifics of her works. In the afterword (publishers, please give translators the space to speak I love this) she gives a few insights into her choices that show genuine care. I was particularly intrigued by her efforts at the use of language on the island: ‘I was seeking to piece together a language that was earthy and colloquial, as natural as breathing, and could plausibly feel like the way people might speak on this island in the Paraná Delta.’ Another aspect of dialog I found effective in its execution are the ways the dialog is unadorned by quotations (which I honestly find redundant when an author has a good sense of tone anyways) but also offset in separate lines from the speaker. It gives a sense that the characters are detached from their own words as they, like the reader, are more observers to their speech as the surreal menacing atmosphere rolls over them. Like the bartender with words jostling with the smoke from the cigarette that never leaves his mouth,’ language is ghostly, airy, a character of its own apart from the characters who speak it. ‘That feeling would never leave him. That grief. It still hits him from time to time. It hits right now as he's smoking by himself. In the middle of the river. In the middle of the night.’ What works so well here is the way past and present blend back and forth with backstories that tease revelations just teetering on the edge of understanding until it all topples into tragedy together. No spoilers but there are some big reveals that land with the force of a book that feels more like 800 pages than 80. ‘Sometimes dreams are echoes of the future,’ the men are told in their youth as we see how the future can also haunt the past and build a sense of helplessness as tragedies seem to roll out in predictable cycles. The men suffer at their own hands yet throw them up in the air as if unable to recognize their own roles for which they are unrepentant. Men that want sex and the company of women but not any responsibility. Men who plot revenge that goes from a frightening warning to a potential murder as they drain the bottles down. Men who can’t seem to let go of a culture of masculinity even when they are drowning in it. ‘In a small town a tragedy's everyone's business, we're all mixed up together around here’ There is also an excellent look at the divide between rural and city here, particularly the way the rural folks stick together and are wary of outsiders. The killing of a ray and the disposal of its body that sets off the events of the novel is not just a ray but an expression of the island and the attitudes of the city to dismiss and dispose of the rural population. ‘It wasn't a ray. It was that ray. A beautiful creature stretched out in the mud at the bottom, she'd have shone white like a bride in the lightless depths. Flat on the riverbed or gliding in her tulle, magnolia from the water, searching for food, chasing transparent larvae, skeletal roots.The hooks buried in her sides, the tug-of-war all afternoon till she can't tight any more. The gunshots. Pulled from the river to be thrown back in later. Dead.’ Frustrations fester and lives crack. Aside from the men fishing there is another excellent and haunting narrative about the aging Siomara and her losing battle against her daughters aging into young women lusted after by men, ‘how little by little they were slipping away, how sooner or later they were going to leave her as well.’ In Siomara we also find a juxtaposition to the indifference of nature, however, as she has a habit of setting fires learned after a particular childhood trauma. If nature is indifferent to the life humans, fire is indifferent to the life of nature, though one might have to consider if here fire is a symbol of destruction or purification. ‘Sometimes she thinks the fire talks to her. Not like a person does, not with words. But there's something in the crackle, the soft sound of the flames, as if she could almost hear the air burning away, yes, something, right there, that speaks to her alone... Come on, you know you want to. It says.’ Surreal and succinct, Not a River is an impressive and powerful little novel. With prose that crackles like the fires set around the island at night, Almada illuminates the darkness to find the menacing figures of toxic masculinity and violence beleaguering society. As past and present flow together, this story lands some rather haunting twists that culminates to an ending that you’ll sense approaching like the inevitability of death, yet when it arrives it is no less fierce or shocking. Yet amidst it all we still find a drive for survival and to placate the horrors of life. But will the men of this story be able to rise above the rage and resentments, or will the burden once again fall upon the women caught in the blaze. 4.5/5 ‘As if just before dying he'd seen something so huge he couldn't take it it. But what was it? Something too huge, that was for sure. But also too terrible? Or too beautiful.’

Shortlisted for the Dublin Literary Award Shortlisted for the 2024 International Booker Prize - deservedly so and Winner of the Shadow Jury Prize from a group of bloggers and online reviewers of which I am part It’s not a river, it’s this river. Not a River (2024) is Annie McDermott's translation of Selva Almada's No es un río (2020). It forms the last part of a loose trilogy of novels centred on male characters in remote or hostile environments as the author explained at the time of publication with: 1) The Wind that Lays Waste (2019) translated by Chris Andrews from her debut El viento que arrasa (2012) - my review 2) Brickmakers (2021) translated by Annie McDermott from Ladrilleros (2013) - my review "Cuando empecé El viento que arrasa no sabía que iban a seguir estas dos novelas, de hecho cuando escribí Ladrilleros tampoco lo sabía. Pero cuando aparecieron las primeras imágenes de esta novela pensé que entre las tres podían formar una especie de trilogía porque están concentradas en personajes masculinos y en el universo de los varones." (translated per ChatGPT) "When I started 'El viento que arrasa,' I didn't know that these two novels would follow; in fact, when I wrote 'Ladrilleros,' I didn't know either. But when the first images of this novel appeared, I thought that the three could form a kind of trilogy because they are focused on male characters and the universe of men." Almada also writes short-stories, poetry and journalistic non-fictional (chronicles) of which in English we've had Dead Girls (2020) translated by Annie McDermott from Chicas muertas (2014) - my review. All of the above in English are published by Charco Press, this their 47th book overall - I've read and reviewed them all at my dedicated shelf. 'Not a River' was inspired by a conversation at a barbecue with a friend who told how he had caught a giant stingray in the Paraná river by shooting it with a gun, which gives rise to the scene that opens the novel. Two men in their 50s, Enero and El Negro, are fishing on an island in the Paraná with Tilo, the son of their late friend Eusebio who drowned in the same waters. They catch a giant stingray by shooting it, and hang it from a tree, where it attracts the attention of the locals. But when Enero and friends throw the fish's body back in the river, it raises the ire of the islanders, led by Aguirre. He stays where he is. Just over the road the woods begin. He knows them like the palm ofhis hand. Better than he's ever known another person. Better than he knows Cesar, who's his friend. Better than he knows his sister, who's a mystery still. Better than he knew his nieces, poor things, they never had the time. He knows the woods better than he knows himself. Some wind gets in between the trees and it's so quiet at this hour that the rustle of leaves could be the breath of a giant beast. He listens as it breathes. As it huffs and puffs. The branches move like ribs, inflating and deflating with the air that's sucked deep inside. They're not just trees. Not just bushes. They're not just birds. Not just bugs. The quitilipi isn't a wildcat, though perched on a branch it might look like one. They're not just any guinea pigs. It this guinea pig. This yarará. This bromeliad, unique, its centre red like a woman's blood. If he looks farther on, to where the road slopes down, he can just about see the river. A glint that makes his eyes water. And again: it's not a river, it's this river. He's spent more time with it than with anyone. So. What gave them the right! It wasn't a ray. It was that ray. A beautiful creature stretched out in the mud at the bottom, she'd have shone white like a bride in the lightless depths. Flat on the riverbed or gliding in her tulle, magnolia from the water, searching for food, chasing transparent larvae, skeletal roots.The hooks buried in her sides, the tug-of-war all afternoon till she can't tight any more. The gunshots. Pulled from the river to be thrown back in later. Dead. The format of the text and lack of chapter breaks is deliberate, to give the effect of prose that flows like a river (gráficamente también se parece a la corriente de un río). The novel focuses on both the history of the three friends Enero, El Negro and Eusibio, but also of Aguirre, his sister Siomara and her two daughters, Mariela and Lucy, who invite Tilo to a dance, although a local shopkeeper warns them off "Get a grip pal, can't you see they're long gone" (view spoiler) With Aguirre and his friends intent on punishing the fishermen, and Tilo heading for the dance to meet Mariela and Lucy, the sense of impending violence ratchets as this powerful and compact novel heads to a conclusion. Another impressive work from Almada and McDermott, whose afterword explains some of the context of the novel and some of the translation choices she made. Read 22nd December, 4 stars

The opening of “Not A River” links a river, a fish and a gun. These elements create a contrast between tranquility and violence that flows through the novel much like the eddies of the river that swirl throughout the story.The resultant foreboding aura infuses the novel with a dreamlike quality while exploring the consequences of masculinity, guilt and desire. The river in question is the Parana, located in rural Argentina. Two longtime friends, Enero Ray and El Negro, embark on a fishing trip with Tilo, the teenaged son of a deceased friend who perished in this same body of water.Their journey is one of expiation and hope. Their hours long struggle with a large stingray culminates with Enero shooting the magnificent fish three times in order to subdue it. This brutal act and subsequent disregard for the natural order enrages the local inhabitants, triggering past grievances and resentments that flow down dangerous paths. The narrative moves in non linear fashion, unfolding long ago memories and secrets.The past of both the visitors and locals is rooted in virulently destructive systems of masculine behavior. Almada’s prose contrasts this destructiveness with the natural beauty of the region and imparts a shimmering tension that fluctuates between violence and tranquility. The result is a poetic creation of a unique world that contains a story of generational despair and missteps. The men seem to be caught in a cycle of testosterone laced codes of honor and betrayal that spur bursts of irresponsible and aggressive behavior. The women in their lives appear to be locked in cycles of youthful temptation and aged despair, unable to extricate themselves from their maternal optimistic nurturing that leads to disappointment as they mature.The novel culminates with a touch of magic realism that explodes in fire, illuminating the dysfunctional, fragmented communities impacted by these destructive behaviors while they struggle to survive. There is a political undertone to this brief,densely packed text.The author has stated that the novel can be read as a polemic excoriating the neoliberalism in Argentina that has impoverished and marginalized large portions of the population.Seen through this lens, the execution of the stingray becomes a symbol of disregard for both environment and population. Almada is not didactic in advancing this argument. Instead, her lean,piercing narrative style draws readers into a rarely visited world that is trying to sort out the detritus of rot and entrapment while searching for hope and resilience.

I’m officially a Selva Almada fan. This quietly unsettling story of 2 men grieving and feeling guilt at the death of their friend is the 3rd of a loose trilogy of explorations of masculinity. The stories are not linked other than the subject, so no need to read them in any order. The men take their deceased friend’s son fishing on an island in the Paraná Delta in Argentina, at the site where they last saw, after an argument, the young man’s father. The men are supposed to be fishing, but at the end of the day, tired, hot, and drunk, they shoot a 100 pound stingray then hang its body in a tree at their camp. This ugly incident offends and angers the local residents of the island. This episode sets the tone for the book and gives us an initial idea of who these men are. What follows is the back stories of the friends and some of the local people on the island, giving us a fuller picture of who is behind the masculine posturing and the long-suffering women in their lives, alternating with the present, which is increasingly tense, foreshadowing a violent encounter. A mark of an excellent author is the ability to tell a long story with fleshed out characters in just a few paragraphs, Almada achieves this with the characters we only briefly meet in this book. Almada’s style in this novel was at first off putting to me; she uses short declarative sentences to reference a speaker, which felt abrupt and intrusive. After reading the brilliant Annie McDermott’s Translator’s Note I now feel that Almada succeeded in giving the prose a masculine and sometimes poetic feel. Don’t read this for plot or character study. This is novel is evocative with lots to think about and discuss. Strongly recommended!

Selva Almada has got to be one of the more exciting writers out there. I have been waiting quite a while for Not a River, the third part of a very loose trilogy of novels focusing on toxic masculinity, The thing is within these three books there have been an evolution of sorts. In first volume, The Wind that Lays Waste , the prose is sparse, clear cut and not too dialogue heavy, in the follow up Brickmakers, there’s a change, The writing is more slangy, time is a bit fuddled and it is stuffed with dialogue. Not a River is the Apex of Selva Almada’s powers: there’s a lot of dialogue, time has not boundaries and there’s a lot of dialogue, without speech marks. As Annie McDermott says in her afterword, this makes the text more poetic and I agree with her. The book is about three men who go fishing in a new territory and they are not welcome, in fact they cause consternation among the locals. We do find out later that these men have the trauma of an accident wedged in their psyche. There are indications that these men don’t have a clean past either. As simple as it sounds, Not a River’s themes hit heavy and with this near experimental dressing it oddly reflects the confusion of these men’s minds during their escapades. This does nit make it an easy read but it’s definitely a compelling one. I would also say that Not a River is an anthropological novel as it gives a snapshot of South American life, the hazy days, the leisurely pace of life and, even the po-facedness of some of the villagers when faced with tragedy, I also found this aspect of the book fascinating. Selva Almada’s books are genuinely exciting to read – Luckily there are still more of her works which have not been translated into English as yet and hopefully this will happen as the English speaking world needs more daring writers like this.

A satisfying, spare and dark novel that is also a magnificent feat of translation. Selva Almada's influences include Faulkner and McCullers, and never more are they on show than in Not A River. This is the tale of three fisherman, haunted by their previous tragedies on the water, who arrive in the backwoods of Argentina for a relaxing getaway. It is not leisure they find, but upset locals who want them to pay for their intrusion into their peculiar but quiet lives. But can they avoid more bloodshed as tempers begin to flare? Spare, sharp prose and delicious details of the highly localised culture of this corner of Argentina combine to produce a gripping and muscular literary read. Huge praise to Annie McDermott for the translation (she explains just how tricky it was in her note) and also to Charco Press, who continue to bring the best in South American fiction to English language readers. This is the seventh of their books I've read and have yet to be disappointed. Where many publishers of translated fiction have ended up becoming more niche and less readable, Charco remain publishers of literary fiction that is readable and invigorating.

What a great end to Selva Almada’s masculinity trilogy. This had such a Brickmakers feel to it with the dancing and the small town community feel. I felt slightly confused whilst reading it as it really breaks the boundaries between past and present, living and dead, as it seems to tell multiple stories at once and flicks back and forth to different timelines. But reading the translators note by Annie McDermott (who I adore) was really beneficial as it made a lot more sense how she wanted the prose to match not only the original rural Argentine text but to mirror the river-like quality of her original writing, as the story ebbs and flows between seemingly different versions of reality. The prose is very Carson McCullers and in this final instalment it is completely stripped back to its bare bones. There is no speech marks and the line and paragraph breaks transform the text into something akin to poetry. I feel it is the most experimental of her works but also the most lyrical and surreal. Its length worked well with the subject matter and structure. Whilst Brickmakers will always be my favourite Almada text I’m glad this one had remnants of it to carry me through. Really excited to see what she will explore next now that she has put her seal on such a varying and brutal representation of Latin American masculinity.

Charco only publishes bangers and Not A River is no exception. A short little thing at less than 100 pages and written sparsely at that. It’s the very definition of bare bones and seeing McDermott credit Cormac McCarthy as an influence in her translation makes perfect sense. Boundaries are blurred between time and place, between the living and the dead, but done so effectively that a choice word, a slight suggestion dropped is enough to orient the reader. There’s no confusion, just admiration at the swift and subtle shifts linking the corporeal world with the spiritual. Though most boundaries are fuzzy, hard lines are drawn between the two groups at the center of this masculine story. It’s an us vs. them from the start with the islanders and outsiders and one can sense the mounting violence that will surely erupt by the book’s end. Enjoyed & recommend. A welcome addition to the IB longlist!

"This man isn’t from these woods and the woods are well aware. But they leave him be. He can come in, he can stay for as long as it takes to gather kindling. Then the woods themselves will spit him out, his arms full of branches, back to the shore." Not A River (written by Selva Almada and translated from Spanish by Annie McDermott) opens with three men (Enero and El Negro who are in their 50s, and Tilo, the son of their late friend Eusebio), who were out on a fishing trip on an Island in the Parana. They caught a huge sting ray by shooting it and thereafter hung it on a tree. Several islanders (Aguirre being their ring-leader) noticed the sting ray but when Enero threw the sting ray back into the river, Aguirre and his gang were enraged. There are several flashbacks throughout the story (in a deliberate fragmentary prose) where we learn more about Eusebio's death, the past of Aguirre's sister, Siomara, and the death of Siomara's daughters (Mariela and Lucy, who invited Tilo to a dance in the form of ghosts). Almada is a master at creating tensions between characters as well as the violence that was inflicted on the characters. Through atmospheric descriptions, we feel the rage, the "unwelcome" attitude, and the prejudice that arouse amongst the islanders against the outsiders (Enero, El Negro, and Tilo). The river, the deaths, and tragedies, the ghosts of the past, the forest, the nightclubs, all represent toxic masculinity, loss, grief, and resilience, especially in a small-town setting. As explained in the translator's notes, "the line breaks and lack of chapter divisions make the text itself river-shaped, its short sentences lapping at the silence like waves on the shore". Not A River is definitely a short, yet powerful piece of work. A strong 4/5 star read and a worthy shortlist for the 2024 International Booker Prize.

Let me start by saying that I have never read any social horror as good as the ones written by Latin American women. This is my third Selva Almada, and now she is firmly on my list of favourite authors. In Not A River by Selva Almada (translated by Annie McDermott), two close friends go camping to a remote island with the son of a friend who had died in a terrible accident. As they encounter their pasts and the local islanders, things get much darker. This is a book that lingers, seeps into your skin. There is a feeling of grief unresolved, tragedy unfolding again. At the same time, a sense of foreboding and an inexplicable sense of terror. Things feel dreamlike and realistic. The people in it like phantoms, but also uncomfortably real. A ghost story in some ways - the ghost of memories, ghosts of things lost, and the ghosts that seem more alive than the living. Like Almada's previous novels, Not A River is an exploration of the toxicity of hyper-masculinity. The casual, violent misogyny; the dismissive attitude towards the female characters; the uncomfortable objectification; the women in the book like silhouettes rather than humans. Yet, these very men also seem stripped open in their pathetic weaknesses and the nightmares that taunt them at night. In just under 100 pages, Almada conveys so much complexity, imparted through an elegant, melancholic writing.

I finished the book confused about the story (maybe mesmerized is a better word), but 100% convinced this was some great piece of writing. 4.5

Haunting 4.5 stars “Nothing was what it was made out to be. The truth included.” Tom Kettle, a retired policeman, is startled out of his retirement reverie of a secluded life by the Irish sea when former colleagues approach him about a case involving a murdered priest. Stirring memories long tamped down, Tom must finally face the demons in his life. Tom shifts from sharing memories of the past as he struggles to grapple with life in the present. The reader learns of his immense love for his wife, June, and their two children. Tragedy fills the pages. Tom's story slowly unfolds. His narrative is sometimes confusing as he meanders from the past into the present. Tom is the sole narrator, and it is hard being in his head. His memories aren’t reliable, and his present is murky at best. I was constantly questioning what was real and what was fabricated to fit his truth. Over time, he shares a harrowing story filled with love and much loss. As Tom reveals buried memories, I was pained and horrified. This is not an easy book to read. There is also a bit of a mystery at play involving a case from Tom's past. However, the true mystery is about Tom's life and the losses he suffered. Barry’s writing is exquisite. He captures the emotions and depths of a man long-suffering alone. It’s a quiet and depressing story filled with loss, trauma, and sorrow, but there is also beauty and unwavering love. I received an ARC of this book from NetGalley and Penguin Group Viking in exchange for an honest review. TW: sexual abuse, suicide

Shortlisted for the 2024 Dublin Literary Prize #9 in my Booker Prize longlist rankings after reading all the longlist books twice. My Instagram post on what worked for me, what did not, my favourite quote and of course a book-themed Golden Retriever photo here: https://www.instagram.com/p/CxM_u0MgZ... Longlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize - which caused me to re-read the book 10 months after my first reading. Enough time goes by and it is as if old things never happened. Things once fresh, immediate, terrible, receding away into old God's time, like the walkers walking so far along Killiney Strand that, as you watch them, there is a moment when they are only a black speck, and then they're gone. Maybe old God's time longs for the time when it was only time, the stuff of the clockface and the wristwatch. But that didn't mean it could be summoned back, or should be. He had been asked to reach back into memory, as if a person could truly do that. On a re-read my thoughts were very similar to the first time. The writing is undoubtedly consistently strong and not infrequently (small in joke there as Tom enjoys his double negatives) brilliant. On a descriptive/complex sentence level only Paul Harding and Paul Lynch from the longlist can compete with Sarah Bernstein taking a more enigmatic route to her excellence. Some passages are, slightly oddly, written in a clear omniscient narrator voice and these (for example one on neutrinos) are some of the most transcendent. But much of the rest seems to be the close third person voice of Tom and while many very cleverly contain metaphors, similes and other imagery which closely match what we know of Tom and his lives experience, others - as seems effectively to be a repeated stylistic choice of Barry - seem much more the author’s voice than his character’s. And Barry himself it should be noted sees the voice as effectively Tom’s : He is reliable in the sense that he is actually experiencing what is being described (by me, in the third person). I felt my job was to be his witness and to see and hear what he was seeing and hearing, and to take it down faithfully, and not butt in. In terms of my main reservations (and in fact let me add one - the choice of a native reservation and the fate of Joe seems an odd choice of cultural appropriation): the blurring of time and reality was less bothersome to me this time (and perhaps more clearly signposted than I remembered) as well as justified by Tom’s long term and accumulative PTSD; while by contrast the catalogue of horrors was if anything worse second time (not least as I had forgotten some of them). Barry has said of the graphicness of the revelations (particularly around clerical abuses) My understanding of abuse is, the survivor carries terrible imagery which is so hard to erase, and even harder to suppress. My prayer was that, by being forensic in my descriptions when necessary, readers might elect to take on some of those images and memories, as an act of solidarity - but I feel this does not address the frequency of horrors which also go much beyond this. But overall I think this could well appear in the shortlist and while it will probably not make my own list I could not even begrudge this highly talented author a Booker win. ORIGINAL REVIEW FROM OCTOBER 2022 Quoth the raven, never would be. Here was now, a light year removed from that reverberating day, and all the things that followed, all the hard things, the happy things, the happier things. The usual fog cleared a moment from his mind. The small hours were refining him down, like a rough whiskey. What would God want to take from his story, he wondered. St bloody Peter at his gate. What was important in all this, his life, his life, like any other life? He thought suddenly of all the detectives on the earth, and all the detectives that had been on the earth – would it be hundreds of thousands? Would they be herded into the detective enclosure? And made to race against each other like horses? All the detectives – the violent crimes, the rapes, the murders, the con jobs, the robberies, the frauds, the very waterspout, the waterfall, the great flood of crimes in human stories. The hubbub, the hubbub. That had so concerned them all. Like the waterfall in Powerscourt, pouring down, pouring down. And all these men, in all the languages of the world, all the races, all the forces, trying to peer in, to weigh up, to come to conclusions, to strike it lucky, cop a break, to squeak a case through by the skin of its teeth. What was their worth, their own weight? And what was at the heart of it? His life, his little life? The fog edged away from the shore of himself, the sea opened like the stage in a theatre, the helpful sun burned in its element, there was a truth told to him, a truth, in his curious age, in his palpable decay, that there at the heart of it, there at the heart of it, for ever and always, was June. Winnie and Joseph and June. But June. Sebastian Barry is a much garlanded writer: most notably twice Costa Novel of The Year winner (both times then going on to win Costa Book of the Year across all categories) and four times longlisted for the Booker Prize (two of which books went on to be shortlisted), he has also won the Kerry Group Irish Fiction Prize, the Irish Book Awards Best Novel, the Walter Scott Prize, the Independent Booksellers Prize and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize. This is his first novel since the widely acclaimed “Days Without End” and its sequel “A Thousand Moons”. Those excellent novels (the only ones I have read) featured a very distinctive writing style: one which mixes plain speaking characters, and descriptions of violence and harsh poverty, with beautifully poetic imagery conveying the grandeur, beauty and terror of the American landscape and weather. The books could I think be criticised on two aspects: a rather made-for-Hollywood plot (with rather too many improbable rescues) and an apparent disconnect between the writing style (clearly written as a first person reminiscence and not as an omniscient narrator) and the narrators background. This book in short I would say: retains the evocative landscape writing - with the coast of Ireland substituted for the American plains; has a greater emphasis on interiority – but again conveyed in a beautifully crafted prose; retains the stark contrast between the beauty of the writing and the unpleasantness of much of what is being described (if anything I found that contrast stronger here); loses the made-for-Hollywood plot but retains a cinematic feel (more introspective art film than Hollywood Western); still has the slight disconnect that the beautiful prose is largely (not exclusively) the thoughts of the main character – even if this time expressed in the third person - and slightly incongruous to their background. The set up of the book is relatively simple: Tom Kettle is a retired Irish policeman who has moved into a small lean-to on the side of a Castle on the Irish Sea Coast. He is widowed (having lost his beloved wife June) with two children – a daughter Winnie who is his solitary, occasional visitor and a son Joe who has emigrated to America (working as a locum on a pueblo in New Mexico) and seems set on a simple if melancholic life. At the book’s opening two policeman visit him to ask for his help with a recently re-opened case concerning two allegedly abusive priests. Immediately Tom is forced to revisit the ghosts of memories, feeling and actions that he had long suppressed, with the past effectively colonising the present and with both Tom and our views of what is real and what is dream or memory increasingly unclear among the gradually revealed horrors and truths. On the strength side, in addition to the powerful writing, the book is a moving explanation of what it means to love and be loved, but one which is far from sentimental in its portrayal of the life long and generational impact of unpunished and unacknowledged abuse, and how even seeming justice can lead to an unbearable weight of guilt (particularly when coupled with the undeserved shame of a victim). On the weaker side I did feel that the two key tropes of the book: the blurring of past/present and reality/memory/dreams; and the unspooling atrocities were both overdone (particularly the latter as ultimately the accumulative revelations end up dampening rather than reinforcing their impact). But overall I think this is a book which will appeal hugely to existing Sebastian Barry fans – particularly those who enjoyed “Days Without End” as well as win him some new ones. My thanks to Faber for an ARC via NetGalley It was a story of atrocities, certainly. It was almost beyond description, and he had laboured for years not to describe it, to anyone else, and more importantly to himself. Never to allow the little sequence of horrors to play in his brain. Think everything else before he thought of those things. Think of things that did not exist, talk to the tumbleweeds of souls that did not exist. See ghosts before telling that story. Clamp his mind shut with heavy Victorian metal clamps. Now no more. It was no longer possible to be a citizen of grief, his passport to grief was cancelled, he couldn’t enter there. Now he must be brave. Of course, unbeknownst to him, he had been brave all his life. That was true, but not true for him. The main drone of the pipes he had heard under everything for sixty years and more was alarm and confusion, like the very pith of battle. Now that was not so, so much. He wondered was there God involved? Had he been released from his ordeal? He didn’t know. He could be suspicious of the brightness in him, in his limbs, in his almost ecstasy, as being something slipped into him by a medicinal god, like a needle with a vaccine in it. He didn't know. Something else knew. It might as well have phoned him on the telephone. Come in, come in, you can row that boat no more. The current was against you. Here is a little harbour. Rest up there.

Now Shortlisted for the Dublin Literary Award 2024 Nominated for the Booker Prize 2023 Barry is just a master of empathetic, intense prose that illuminates the movements of human consciousness - but this is also a moral investigation into the crimes of the Catholic church in Ireland, and how the consequences of child abuse permeate individual lives and the destiny of families and communities. While told in the third person, the text is strongest when it turns into a maelstrom of consciousness and takes readers inside the mind of retired police officer Tom Kettle who, as his last name suggests, had found warmth and solace in his home, his family. But from the beginning, we learn that he suffers because his wife and kids have all died within the last ten years. When young policemen visit Tom about a cold case involving the murder of a clergyman who was accused of pedophilia as well as another priest who evaded imprisonment, we start to wonder what Tom knows about the case, and what happened to his loved ones. The narration is highly complex, jumping between memory and present-day reality, showing a man struggling to revive long-buried trauma in order to know himself. Nine moths Tom has been retired, and the time has birthed a breakthrough of his inner turmoil. Both he and his beloved wife grew up in the care of the church, both were abused. In a way, Tom is an Irish noir detective, and Barry serves us typical elements of a crime novel - questionings, evidence gathering, theories -, but rooted in the psychological investigation of his protagonist's past. The hallucinatory quality heightens the sense of entrapment that renders the whole text gloomy and claustrophobic. Tom is existentially lonely, his pain is overpowering, and to sort out his trauma-stricken, huddled memory seems like the only path to salvation: From the Catholic institution, Tom escaped into the military, was sent to war, joined the police, and tried to make a home for himself with his equally damaged wife whom he loved dearly - all while experiencing how even the police has continued to protect abusers in the clergy. Barry's lyrical prose shines once more, and his unreliable protagonist - unreliable even to himself - remains an enigma, as we all are, but a captivating one. And then there's Tom's neighbor, an actress named, of course, Ms McNulty, who has fled her husband who used to abuse her now deceased daughter - who are this woman and her son? Not only do they relate to Barry's McNulty family that appears in several of his works, they also relate to the hauntings of the past, the ghosts that have followed Tom since his childhood in the orphanage. I'm not sure how Barry manages to write such moving novels that are also this complex and never kitsch-y. Just nominate him for the Booker again, he deserves it.

An early Booker 2023 favorite A frightening mystery about how unreliable memory can be. I found it fascinating that the protagonist might have forgotten whether he is the hero or the monster. It certainly made me more interested in discovering how and why the events happened, rather than just focusing on who did it. Be aware that some descriptions are difficult to read, and the ideas and writing are so complex that you will most likely find yourself pondering other connections and possibilities as well. I certainly was. This was my first time reading something from Sebastian Barry, who is one of those authors that is easy to neglect despite all the praise surrounding his work. A Booker Prize could dispel this hesitancy for many readers, but only time will tell. I would be surprised if this doesn't make it onto the shortlist.

The writing was beautiful, it made the book a very pleasant experience.

Tom Kettle is a retired Irish copper, nine months off the job when we make his acquaintance. He has a snug little spot on the coast south of Dublin on the grounds of a nicely maintained mansion or castle. He's hiding away from the world and memories, though they start crowding in on him after he is visited by two young cops from his old nick. He had a family - wife June, daughter Winnie, and son Joseph. He's the only surviving member. Getting the back story, the rough childhoods of both him and June, unfold in fits and starts as he seems to be an unreliable narrator. Is it that he's getting dementia or is it psychological trauma? Quite a story - Irish orphans, Irish orphanages, criminal priests, complicit nuns and doctors. Heartbreaking and yet redemptive. Profoundly moving.

An extremely well written but ultimately slightly frustrating read. The first 100 pages are slow, but worth it to allow the mystery inside Tom Kettle's head to unravel during the rest of the book. However, the unreliability of Tom's mind means its hard to determine what, if any, of his story actually happened, which left me searching for closure at the end. Passages of beautiful writing, mixed with powerful, dark sequences.

Although Days Without End seems to have many rabid fans, I did not enjoy it and found it steeped in white savior tropes that felt especially offensive for a novel aimed to comfort Barry's son's coming out experience. I've avoided his work since but since OLD GOD'S TIME was longlisted for the Booker Prize this year (one of four Irish novels) I gave him another chance. Tom is a retired police detective, approached by some colleagues about a cold case involving the gruesome murder of a priest suspected of abusing children in 1960s Ireland. We get drawn into Tom's mind as he explores his painfilled tragic past and how it has taken him to this moment, where he has to not only understand but also justify ostensibly criminal actions of vengefulness and anger. OLD GOD'S TIME is masterfully written with crisp prose. I love novels that reveal the dark and mysterious natures of their characters through morsels of memories. Novels that also explore significant historical moments, dark ones that have been left in the shadows of a nation's past, are especially compelling. That said, I didn't find the writing especially groundbreaking or revelatory, so it is four-stars for me.

Winner of the biennial Vondel Prize from the Society of Authors for translations from Dutch/Flemish and Longlisted for the 2021 International Booker Prize Lucien lolls blissfully in his chair while Rico sits beside him, licking at his fingers. “Was there any work going today?” “Sure.” His tongue flicks across his lips as he feeds Lucien the tail end of the sausage. “I’m making things happen. We’re doing just fine, the three of us. If your mother could see us now, eh?” Summer Brother is David Doherty’s translation of Jaap Robben’s bestselling Zomervacht (2018). From the book’s English blurb - an honest, tender account of brotherly love- and Robben’s background as a children’s writer (this was his second adult novel) - I expected something very different from last year’s bestselling Dutch novel which won the International Booker Prize, the quite brilliant The Discomfort of Evening. This is indeed a different novel, but actually a slightly edgier one that the blurb implied, and to my taste, the better for it. 13 year-old Brian lives with his father, Maurice, after his parents separated, their accommodation a caravan they rent on a scrapyard, his father making money from odd-jobs, petty theft and reselling junk. The flapping sole of my right shoe gobbles sand with every step. Dad has dropped me off so I can head to the caravan and fry us up some eggs while he drives down the road for chips. There’s rustling up ahead, so I keep still. It’s a scruffy sparrow tossing leaves about. Bathroom tiles peek out of the rubble under the bushes, where someone has dumped bundles of advertising leaflets. The prickly shrubs are hung with shreds of blue bin bag, its contents carried off on the wind. Across the stream, up through the broom bushes, and that’s me home. From the top of the slope, I can smell the bottle bank that stands where the main road skirts the rutted track to our turf. Brian’s 16 year-old brother Lucien was born mentally and physically handicapped, and is now institutionalised. His estranged mother and her new partner are primarily responsible for Lucien’s care, leaving Brian to stay with his father, as Brian’s father reminds him when they fight: “And Mum hates you too. She never wanted you back. And I don’t want anything to do with you either!” “Then fuck off back to your mother,” he says, calm enough to scare me. His elbow knocks me to one side. “Oh no, wait. Your mother didn’t want you. She chose your brother.” But when the care home is being renovated, alternative accommodation is needed. Brian’s mother is away on her honeymoon, and his father initially wants nothing to do with the situation, until the Manager mentions the generous allowance that will be paid. With Brian on summer holidays, Maurice sees an opportunity for the two brothers to re-bond, but primarily to make some easy cash: “It’ll be good for the two of you, eh? And how much hassle can it be? Your brother’s in bed all day. Spoon a tub of applesauce into him every couple of hours, double helpings if he’s hungry. A little drink from his beaker now and then. They’ll draw us up a schedule. We can stick him under the shower if his nappy is full. Probably shits regular as clockwork, just sit him on the pot and let gravity do the rest. It’s not like he’s going anywhere. I’ll sort out a TV by his bed to keep him occupied the rest of the time and, hey presto, another day gone. Quick wipe with a facecloth, brush his little gnashers and then beddy- byes. Nothing to it, right?” Maurice rather leaves Brian to manage Lucien, while he is off ducking-and-diving to make ends meet, and of course things don’t turn out quite as simple as planned, although the brother’s do begin to build a relationship. There are shades of Toby Litt’s Patience here. As the author’s own introduction to the novel says: In the beginning of this book, the two brothers are strangers. By the end they understand each other, and the reader knows what Lucien means by “moo-wah-wah.” That is perhaps the main purpose I had in writing this book. To create a character who apparently can’t communicate, but whom you eventually learn to understand.” But that aspect of the novel was handled rather better by Litt’s novel - I wasn’t really sure I did come to understand Lucien. The novel’s strength for me rather lay in the portrayal of Brian, a coming-of-age story that isn’t entirely sentimental - he revisits the home after Lucien has come to live with them to visit another inmate older, but naively sexually promiscuous. And in the rich cast of characters, not just Brian and his father but also a policeman in pursuit of Lucien (the DS Chisholm to his Arthur Daley), the two men who own the scrapyard (or have at least claimed primary squatting rights) and a lodger, himself thrown out by his wife, who comes to stay in another caravan on the site. 3.5 stars - a worthy longlist inclusion and one for the fringes of the shortlist. Rounded to 4 for now.

RTC - Bookclub book of the month July

Zomervacht is narrated by Brian, a tough, tender thirteen year-old, who for one summer is the main carer for his severely disabled older brother, Lucien. The boys' parents are separated, and Brian lives with their shiftless, sometimes violent father, Maurice, on a filthy, rundown caravan site. Lucien normally lives in an institution, where he is kept sedated. But one summer there are building works so he must come home for a period. His mother is off on honeymoon with her new partner, so Maurice - attracted by the carer's allowance - brings Lucien to stay in their caravan. Brian sets about helping his brother to gain some mobility and do the things he likes such as smashing empty bottles and wading in streams. But the summer episode is clouded by Maurice's debts, his fecklessness, and by his obsessive antagonism to another resident of the site with whom Brian has struck up a friendship. This is a fine, tough book, made credible by the compelling voice of the young narrator - savvy, fierce, impulsive, naive, observant, and full of love for a brother who does not even have the power of speech. The subtle, evolving facets of the complex relationship between Brian and his father are very well conveyed through the lad's perceptions and reactions. The book's viewpoint, of a boy on the threshold of adolescence, reminded me of two novels of quality with similarly vivid young protagonists: Paul McVeigh's The Good Son and Kit de Waal's My Name is Leon. For me, the book was somewhat marred by a violent, melodramatic incident in the denouement. The episode strains credibility and seems unnecessary in that the key events story could have unfolded as well without it. That aside, it is a beautiful, unsentimental study of marginal lives. Zomevacht is to be published in English as Summer Brother by World Editions in February 2021 (trans. David Doherty).

Now longlisted for the 2021 Women's Prize. I read the book following its earlier shortlisting for the 2020 Booker Prize and based on that did not feel the book had the coherency to be a worthy Booker winner. Similarly I would not want to see it win the Women's Prize. The whites are still bright, some glaring and some almost blue, the white of widows, of mourners and renunciants, holy men and women, monks and nuns, the white of those who no longer belong in the world, who have already put one foot on another plane. The white of the guru and his followers. Maybe Ma saw this white cotton as the means to her truth, a blank slate where she could remake herself and find the path to freedom. For me it was something different, a shroud that covered us like the living dead, a white too stark ever to be acceptable in polite society. A white that marked us as outsiders. To my mother this was the colour of her community, but I knew better: the white clothes were the ones that separated us from our family, our friends and everyone else, that made my life in them a kind of prison. I read this book (which was originally published in India as “Girl in White Cotton” (*)) due to its longlisting for the 2020 Booker Prize: an intriguing longlist noticeable for (per the Booker website) featuring 9 US based authors, 9 female authors and 8 debutant novelists – with this book representing one of the 4 books at the intersection of that Venn diagram : albeit the US born author of this novel now lives in Dubai. (*) The author has said that her UK publisher "felt white cotton had different connotations outside of India, and readers wouldn’t immediately understand the connection to grief and asceticism The book is narrated in the first person by Antara, who lives in Pune, India with her US born husband but whose defining relationship is with her mother Tara. When Antara was young, Tara left her husband and for several years lived at an Ashram as the disciple and mistress of the legendary guru – becoming estranged as a result not just from her husband and parents but also from the young Antara, in a breech that never properly healed. Now years later, Tara, who lives alone, is starting to suffer the early signs of dementia and Antara forced into the role of a carer, a role made harder by her lifelong difficult relationship with her mother. Ironically just as her mother starts to lose her memory and grip on reality, Antara is forced to confront the reality of her own past behaviour and its implications for her marriage. This tension is exacerbated by two other generations: Tara’s own mother (still living independently and whose memory of history does not always align with the story that Antara has told herself) and Antara’s new born daughter (whose arrival simultaneously causes post-partum depression in Antara and further unsettles Tara, who believes the girl to be her own baby i.e. Antara). A key theme of the book (and one that makes it an interesting companion to the non-dystopian part of “The New Wilderness”) is its investigation of the relationship between mother and daughter and how it evolves for both parties from birth, through early attachment and nourishment to childhood independence, teenage rebellion, the daughter’s own motherhood and then to parental dependency. Antara (Un-Tara) is deliberately named to be unlike and separated from her mother (“designated as her undoing”), but in fact entwined for life (“I often wished she had never been born, knowing this would wipe me out as well – I understood how deeply connected we were, and how her destruction would irrevocably lead to my own”): something that then happens as her mother’s own decline seems to be accompanied by her own uncertainty, then pregnancy to try and save things, and then post-partum depression. Talking has never been easy. Neither has listening. There was a breakdown somewhere about what we were to one another, as though one of us were not holding up her part of the bargain, her side of the bridge. Maybe the problem is that we are standing on the same side, looking out into the emptiness. Maybe we were hungry for the same things, the sum of us only doubled that feeling. And maybe this is it, the hole in the heart of it, a deformity from which we can never recover. If our conversations were itineraries, they would show us always returning to this vacant cul-de-sac, one we cannot escape from. Another key character in the novel is Kali Mata (once Eve) and she acts as something of a surrogate maternal figure for the young Antara in the Ashram sections; her name symbolically drawing on both Jewish and Hindu icons of ambiguous motherhood. Other key ideas, very explicitly addressed in the book are: - Memories/forgetting: How memories are crafted and built; how as well as being personal they are effectively in common (if disputed) ownership between those who first experience them; what are the implication for this common ownership if one of the owners begins to surrender possession? He says my mother and I have always shared some version of our objective reality. Without me, her ties to that may have loosened, sad, but true – yet on the other hand, as a caregiver, the distance might be good for me. It is difficult when everything starts to vanish. He says memory is a work in progress. It’s always being reconstructed. ‘Reality is something that is co-authored,’ the woman says. ‘It makes sense that you would begin to find this disturbing. When someone says that something is not what you think of it as, it can cause slight tremors in the brain, variations in brain activity, and subconscious doubts begin to emerge. Why do you think people experience spiritual awakenings? It’s because the people around us are engaged. The frenzy is a charge that’s contagious.’ ‘Are you saying my mother is contagious?’ ‘No, I’m not. Though maybe I am, in a sense. We actively make memories, you know. And we make them together. We remake memories, too, in the image of what other people remember.’ ‘The doctor says my mother has become unreliable.’ ‘We are all unreliable. The past seems to have a vigour that the present does not.’ Related to this is the concept of who gets to remember and tell a story - and as the book progresses we increasingly realise that Antara's narration is less than reliable and sense the cracks in the picture she presents of her mother and husband. - Belonging/exclusion. As the opening quote identifies the Ashram gave Tara a sense of community and Antara a sense of exclusion from her previously nascent roots. Antara’s husband as an NRI feels like he does not fully belongs in India (with his Western ideas, snobberies and rather simplistic morals). A photojournalist lover of Tara, fleeing the Mumbai riots, is taken in by a family who he then marries in to, only to find that others later question his motives and the work he produces from it. And Antara/Tara's complex relationship is all about the tension between belonging and exclusion. This contempt still draws up the moment I feel uncomfortable. I disown so I can never be disowned. - Obsession – Antara in particular relentlessly catalogues and collects: sleights when she is a child; objects as she grows up; facts as she tries to understand her mother’s condition and does her own research into the links with diabetes and gut bacteria (something which has darker implications later) - Art history/life. The author was an art critic and exhibition curator and ideas from art permeate both the book’s structure and its narrative. An art project that Antara has carried on for three years (see below) forms a key part of the tension in her relationships. Antara also uses art to try and come to terms with her research into dementia – sketching her research and ideas on papers. It is part of the meta-approach which permeates this novel that of course the author (whose grandmother’s own diagnosis with dementia part way through the writing of this novel gave it its final form) is using her own art form – novel writing – to capture her own research The other concept that came out strongly to me in my reading of the book was the idea of a palimpsest in its broadest sense – of art or ideas being written on previous attempts. We see it in the discussion of how memories are created and developed. There are references to the Brazilian 1920s avant-garde concept of “Anthropafagio” – the cannibalization of Western art. There is an exhibit based around artists re-interpreting “One Hundred Years of Solitude” (note this is I based I believe on an exhibit the author herself curated in Mumbai 2012: very much unlike her character “One Hundred Years of Solitude is not “a book I had never heard of, much less read” being in fact one of her favourite high school stories, and the idea of the insomnia plague that hits Macondo drove her initial idea of exploring the loss of memory and the idea of categorisation and labelling). At one stage Antara explores her Mother’s layers of clothes which set out the story of her life (wedding saris, bridal trousseau, Ashram robes). A key location is the Poona club – which the author represents as a key part of post-independence Indian society written over the legacy of colonialism. We see it in Antara’s crucial art project -a three year project to draw the same face each day, based only on copying the previous day’s painting. And again referring to the very meta nature of this book – what I find interesting is that the novel itself can be seen in these terms. It was written over seven years in around 8 drafts – with different persons (first/third), tenses, narrators, voices and settings. And the author has I understand taken the old manuscripts and formed them into an art project - wrapping them around her husband’s golf balls (his idea as something that needs redoing every day, building on past failures and successes). Overall I feel that this is one of the more ambiguous novels on the longlist. At times humorous at times intense and almost voyeuristically uncomfortable. On one level a relatively simple narrative, on the other one which weaves in a series of ideas and concepts - not just to that narrative but to the book's very conception. It is one with a touch of the Eileen Moshfegh and which shows the literary influence (acknowledged by the author) of Jenny Offill, Sheila Heti and Rachel Cusk. However the author I was most reminded of was Ariana Harwicz and her excellent “Involuntary” trilogy. Overall I found this a worthwhile and intriguing addition to the longlist. My thanks to Hamish Hamilton for an ARC via NetGalley. And even now, when I am without her, when I want to be without her, when I know her presence is the source of my unhappiness – that learned longing still rises, that craving for soft, white cotton that has frayed at the edge.

“Burnt Sugar” is a work of extraordinary insight, courage and sophistication. It is also the world’s worst Mother’s Day present. “I would be lying if I said my mother’s misery has never given me pleasure,” the narrator begins. “The sympathy she elicits in others gives rise to something acrid in me.” This is a family tragedy laced with equal parts wit and strychnine. It’s not that Doshi has written something no one has ever thought before; it’s that she’s written something no one has ever expressed so exquisitely — and so baldly. The narrator is an Indian artist named Antara, whose mother is presenting symptoms of Alzheimer’s. The doctors offer only a dose of vague hope; there is no concrete diagnosis and certainly no cure. Hovering in the dusk of competency, Antara’s mother still manages to live alone, but increasingly she wanders, forgets where she is and what she’s doing. As her only child, Antara embraces the responsibility of caring for her with a determination threaded with resentment and even bouts of. . . . Read the rest of this review in The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...

This is the book i came across due to its inclusion into Booker 2020 longlist. I am very interested in all aspects of India and its culture. So i was very happy to see the author with South Asian heritage and the story set in India in the list. Overall, my initial impression of this year's list was more positive than the usual as I did not know more than a half of the names there. I've made a list of the books I was interested in. Since then, my enthusiasm has cooled down somewhat as I realised that quite a few of these books were the type of confessional writing often based on the author's life. I do not mind it general, but after reading Real Life, i think i have enough for a while of the the sub-genre. This book is confessional as well. It is also hyper-realistic and detailed. But the difference is that Avni has actually created a fictional story and fully developed a fictional character! That seems to be quite an achievement in the recent literary climate. Though the story is fictional, the style is totally modern auto-fiction. Antara, the main character and the voice of the novel is dealing with her past and her mum who seems to be succumbing to the early dementia. The novel set in Puna, India. Antara is an artist. But her childhood was tricky. Her mum has ran to an ashram from her husband and her family taking 3 year old Antara. It has resulted in a childhood trauma for a little girl multiplied by a year in a dreadful catholic convent later. My understanding is her mum has had her quite young as well. All in all, their relationship never was easy. It was in the past, and even in the present it is very competitive, critical and easily moving from love to hate. At present, it is exacerbated by her mum's state. The book jumps backwards and forwards from Antara's childhood to the present moment. There is a supportive cast of characters. But none of them are very strong, in my view. However, Antara's super-frank, unsentimental voice and her reflections, often angry, about herself or her mum have won me over. Her similes sometimes made me wince: occasionally too much physiology for the sake of it (salivas, periods, perspiration being described and more). But the social commentary was interesting. And the ideas were quite profound in a way. It made me think how many of us, daughters, are starting our lives thinking that we will be everything opposite to our mums. But then, somehow notwithstanding, ending up more similar to them than different. I did not think the last few chapters when Antara gave birth to her own daughter added much. It was very clearly inspired by Rachel Cask's Motherhood memories and they were not more insightful or new for that. Also it was one dark twist too many at the end for my liking. But overall, I enjoyed the energy of this.

Longlisted for 2021 Women's Prize for Fiction. Avni Doshi's Burnt Sugar, shortlisted for 2020 Booker Prize, has a distinctively bitter bite that my readerly palate has enjoyed. An unsettling, humorous and horrifying account of a mother-daughter relationship that binds them in a toxic love-hate codependency. The book starts with a killer first sentence that very much establishes the first-person voice of the daughter, Antara: "I would be lying if I said my mother's misery has never given me pleasure". What wonderfully delicious and dark wit. We quickly learn that the mother (Ma) is suffering cognitive degeneration and rapid memory loss. We get the following a few pages in: "Sometimes , I refer to Ma in the past tense even though she is still alive. This would hurt her if she could remember it long enough.... Sometimes I cry when no one else is around - I am grieving, but it's too early to burn the body". This really pulled me in. There is a quality of almost vicious, pained intelligence from the narrator as she peels back the layers of this relationship revealing what's led to this. At one point, further on in the book Antara reflects: "There was a breakdown somewhere about what we were to one another, as though one of us were not holding up her part of the bargain, her side of the bridge. Maybe the problem is that we are standing on the same side, looking out into the emptiness. Maybe we were hungry for the same things, the sum of us only doubled that feeling. And maybe this is it, the hole in the heart of it, a deformity from which we can never recover. If our conversations were itineraries, they would show us always returning to this vacant cul-de-sac, one we cannot escape from." As the mother loses her memory we rely on Antara's account of this painful relationship and there are questions raised about the reliability of her memories. Antara herself is very much aware of this, almost as a tragic self-realisation that her childhood has locked her into a particular even peculiar, constrained way of interacting with the world. This is also expressed in her artistic practice of drawing. The book also has a strangely claustrophobic feel, a sense that the reader is trapped with Antara inside the "cul-de-sac" of stories she keeps telling herself (and us) about this childhood she has lived and its suffocating impacts on her current life, including her marriage to Dilip. I will update this review soon, with some further thoughts as Burnt Sugar isn't without a few flaws. Fascinating book with such a distinctive voice that is both loving and cruel. Definitely worthy I think of its shortlisting for the Booker.

I’m always game for a mother-daughter story, and even though I’m fortunate to have a close relationship with my mom, I’m drawn to stories that reveal the complexities in that special bond. Burnt Sugar, nominated for the Booker Prize is about Tara and her daughter, Antara, living in India. Tara is losing her memory, and Antara has been through trauma and neglect throughout her childhood. The story is dark, intense, and raw, as these two navigate coming together even as the rifts of the past drive them apart. At times I was super uncomfortable while reading, and I felt a sharp want for something better, for healing and hope, for the characters in their lives. Even if it wasn’t an easy read because if its darkness, I was invested and along for the ride. I received a gifted copy. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

There is something irredeemably and irretrievably acrid and acidic about Doshi’s depiction of Pune, a Pune bathed in violet sunrises, a city which is home to the tempestuous relationship between Antara and her mother Tara. Doshi’s story stands out for its knack of defying conventions, from the unconventional nature of Antara’s relationship with her mother, which is as rooted in mutual antagonism as it is love, to Antara’s own musings, from the ambivalence with which she regards her own motherhood, to her mother’s past, from leaving her family, to homelessness, to her time in an ashram and her affair with an aloof artist. What gives ‘Burnt Sugar’ its power is its sense of honesty and rawness, as the narrator hides nothing about how she feels from the reader, from her relationship with her husband, to her tempestuous relationship with her mother, to the feelings of hatred and violence she sometimes experiences towards her newborn daughter, Doshi is able to circumvent the social conventions which women are expected to navigate. Many may come away from reading ‘Burnt Sugar’ with an intense dislike of Antara, viewing her as a selfish and self-absorbed person, but the point is that Doshi is attempting to portray a real person, warts and all, as opposed to a caricature, after all fiction is as much about depicting well realised characters as it is well like ones. ‘Burnt Sugar’ is an acerbic exploration of modern Indian, a brilliant portrayal of one woman’s struggles to overcome a childhood and upbringing rooted in a sense of rootlessness and a relationship with her mother which has been irrevocably shaped by her unconventional upbringing. Many may walk away from ‘Burnt Sugar’ with the feeling that they like neither the protagonist, the plot or any of the characters, but the reader should also walk away feeling that they have experienced a female voice which has hitherto been the sole domain of male writers and characters. 'Burnt Sugar' may be imperfect, but it is also indelible.

My 8th book from the 2020 Booker long list. I liked this one. I have read enough plotless sentence-level incisive devastating-secret devi novels to know it's a thing and not a thing I'm a big fan of. This is one of those. But it was engaging. I like how the book addresses dementia, which I could relate to, and how it uses local culture in Pune and Mumbai, how it touches on life in an ashram, and how it addresses some of the characteristics of American-born Indians, and their relation to India. I enjoyed it. It's a mother-daughter story - Tara and Antara. Mom has progressing dementia and Antara is trying to deal with it, and is bitter about it. She still has hurts to respond to, and Tara is there, but there can no longer be a reckoning. It's too late. But also, Tara has less and less control over what she says. She starts hinting at dark secrets about to her son-in-law and Antara, our narrator, is getting a little anxious...and a little unstable. This is a debut novel by American born Doshi, and takes place in Pune, India. It's read beautifully by Sneha Mathan. (I think there is another version with a different narrator.) Recommended. ----------------------------------------------- 12. Burnt Sugar by Avni Doshi reader: Sneha Mathan published: 2019 format: 8:36 Audible audiobook (240 pages in paperback) acquired: March 20 listened: Mar 22 – Apr 2 rating: 4 locations: Pune, India and other places in India – 1980’s through current day about the author: from New Jersey, daughter of Indian immigrants, born 1982

“Sometimes I can feel that girl crowning at the back of my throat, trying to come out through any orifice she can. But I swallow her until the next she wants to be born again.” Antara is slowly losing her mother Tara to Alzheimer’s and in losing her she begins to remember for her. In remembering for her she begins to peel back at the years of her never truly having a safe home. Burnt Sugar has me sitting with a variety of questions. Mainly if women in novels are “allowed” to be irredeemable? Are they “allowed” to be throughly unlikeable specifically if they are mothers? I am use to reading about mother/daughter dynamics that attempt to explain, expand and seek understanding for the ways in which this relationship can go wrong or the ways in which is nourishes. But I’m not use to reading about the ways in which it can damage & crush like a tidal wave meant to break someone. The brutal toxicity that can exist in this link/bond and that we may be able to distance ourselves from but will remain with us and in us. I wasn’t ready for that. I also wasn’t ready for the tone of this book that felt fractured in the way that trauma can fracture a human. The dullness life can carry when the past weighs so heavy.

Very interesting novel looking a relationships love and interactions can see why was shortlisted for booker prize

short lil tiny lil reviews for each story! STORY 1: THE HEAD i am a weak person, but...i am physically incapable of having any opinions on this story beyond how disgusting it is. i was trying to eat a Delicious Treat while reading it between conference calls, and i was delivered a cosmic punishment i do not feel i deserved. however, i know this is the point of it, so... rating: 3 STORY 2: THE EMBODIMENT ok...this is badass. rating: 4 STORY 3: CURSED BUNNY title story title story title story!!! in the bunny versus capitalism battle, my money is on bunny every time. rating: 4 STORY 4: THE FROZEN FINGER goddamn this one was so scary and good. rating: 4.5 STORY 5: SNARE okay extremely dark... the real monster is capitalist greed!!! rating: 4 STORY 6: GOODBYE, MY LOVE like the movie her if i liked it. rating: 4 STORY 7: SCARS i love fairytales, but i can't stand myths. i don't know if that makes sense, but it has to add up at least a little, because i didn't like this one much. rating: 3 STORY 8: HOME SWEET HOME i have trouble sympathizing with landlords. rating: 3 STORY 9: RULER OF THE WINDS AND SANDS i said i love fairytales and bora chung gave me a fairytale. rating: 4 STORY 10: REUNION a bunch of my favorite subjects in one: ghosts, sadness, the meaning of life, people-watching, lovers. all wrapped up excellently. rating: 4.5 OVERALL this feels like it was made for me. rating: 4 ------------------------ currently-reading updates two of my favorite things ------------ reading books by asian authors for aapi month! book 1: kim jiyoung, born 1982 book 2: siren queen book 3: the heart principle book 4: n.p. book 5: the hole book 6: set on you book 7: disorientation book 8: parade book 9: if i had your face book 10: joan is okay book 11: strange weather in tokyo book 12: sarong party girls book 13: the wind-up bird chronicle book 14: portrait of a thief book 15: sophie go's lonely hearts club book 16: chemistry book 17: heaven book 18: the atlas six book 19: the remains of the day book 20: is everyone hanging out without me? and other concerns book 21: why not me? book 22: when the tiger came down the mountain book 23: the lies we tell book 24: to paradise book 25: pachinko book 26: you are eating an orange. you are naked. book 27: cursed bunny

Well, if it is not another grim yet illuminating Asian literature. I was told how quirky this book would be, but my brain is still processing it the whole time (like wtf am I reading). In the ten short tales in this book, Chung masterfully combines elements of horror, fantasy, and magical realism to create a fresh and original take on 'genre-defying'. The book's attempt to depict a selfish, patriarchal, and greedy society in vivid and unsettling detail is what I admired the most. Chung illustrates how egotism can lead people to commit heinous crimes against others and it's appalling to think this is also the reality of today. I appreciate how she refers to her characters in the third person, letting it be known that this might as well be anyone. Although the exceptional exists in that universe, along with some ludicrous stories and others that are more prosaic — but the lyrical writing and knack for vivid and surreal imagery would not take the enjoyment of reading this bizarre book. Other times, a collection of short stories are not my preference. It's simply that since there isn't much space, writers must concentrate on a select few core features rather than many. Chung, on the other hand, employs short story collections to explore several genres and styles with such grace, brevity, and directness that many novels lack. My favourite really had to be "The Head" in which a woman is tortured by a creature that keeps emerging in her toilet bowl in this mildly offensive story. The story is a surreally humorous yet oddly upsetting tale that it was a brilliant piece for putting the wind up with that opening. It was just witless and aghasting, especially as a frequent user of a toilet. For the most part, if you have a faint of heart, this book may not be one to opt for, but if you're in for something mind-blowing, Cursed Bunny is a must-try debut book! Not to say, Anton Hur also did a wonderful job with the translation, making it an easy and quick read.

Magnificently grotesque. I needed to look away from the page now and then but I felt like cheering all the way through because Bora Chung has written something so brutal and perfect. I was reminded of Poe's Berenice for the body horror, but the author writes meticulously and matter-of-factly, instead of feverishly, a voice that makes these stories all the more disturbing and vividly realized. Ugh. Yay.

4.25 stars One of the best collections of short stories I've read in a long time. These tales are terrifying, strange, and contain elements of fantasy. Aside from that, each narrative focuses on human values such as greed, power, money, and gain, and each concludes with a message. Bora Chung's writing style and ingenuity add to the mystique and intrigue of this collection. Her style of writing short stories is unique and engrossing. The reason I gave it four stars instead of five is that the quality of the short tales diminished after the first five, but each story is distinctive in its own way. It comes highly recommended from me..

Shortlisted for the 2022 International Booker Prize Longlisted for 2023 National Book Award for Translated Literature “저주에 쓰이는 물건일수록 예쁘게 만들어야 하는 법이다.” 할아버지는 늘 이렇게 말씀하셨다, Grandfather used to say “When we make our cursed fetishes, it’s important that they’re pretty” Cursed Bunny is Anton Hur’s translation of 저주토끼 (2017) by 정보라 (Romanised as Bora Chung). It is published by Honford Star whose mission is to publish the best literature from East Asia, be it classic or contemporary ... By working with talented translators and exciting local artists, we hope to see more bookshelves containing beautiful editions of the East Asian literature we love. Until this year their Korean literature had been classic literature from the 1st half of the 20th century - see my reviews: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... But for 2021, their K-lit focus turns to the contemporary, in terms of authors, and the future in terms of subject matter. - Tower, translated by Sang Ryu from the original 타워 by 배명훈 (Bae Myung-hoon) - my review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... - the post-apocalyptic To the Warm Horizon translated by Soje from Jin-Young Choi - and this collection of short stories. As always with Honford Star, the reader is immediately struck by the stunning cover art, here by Choi Jaehoon/werkgraphic.com. See here for the press's general approach: https://booksandbao.com/asian-cover-a.... It is also great to see the translators named on the front cover, and the Korean title and author’s name, written in 한글 (hangeul) on the flaps. The stories effectively mix genres (anti-realist would perhaps be a good label) and also horror with humour. The first story (actually 2nd in the original) Head (머리) won the 1998 Yonsei Literature Prize, and was the author’s (successful) attempt to write a fantastical story in the style of Eastern European authors, the author herself having translated Bruno Schulz into Korean. It begins with a woman about to flush the toilet when she sees a head popping out, calling out to her ‘Mother’ 어느 날 물을 내리고 화장실을 막 나오려 할 때였다. “어머니” She was about to flush the toilet. “Mother?” ... It was probably more accurate to refer to it as “a thing that vaguely looks like a head” than an actual head. It was about two-thirds the size of an adult’s head and resembled a lump of carelessly slapped-together yellow and gray clay, with a few scattered clumps of wet hair. No ears, no eyebrows. Two slits for eyes so narrow that she couldn’t tell if its eyes were open or closed. The crushed mound beneath was meant to be its nose. The mouth was also a lipless slit. Its strained speech mixed with the gurgling of a person drowning, making it difficult to understand. “What the Hell are you?” she asked. “I call myself the Head,” the Head replied. “You would, obviously,” she said, “but why are you in my toilet? And why are you calling me ‘mother’?” The Head strained as it formed its unpracticed speech with its lipless mouth. “My body was created with the things you dumped down the toilet, like your fallen-out hair and the feces you wiped off your behind. She got angry. “I never gave the likes of you permission to live in my toilet. I never even created the likes of you in the first place, so stop calling me your mother. Leave before I call the exterminators.” “I only want so little,” said the Head hastily, “I’m only asking that you keep dumping your body waste in the toilet so I can finish the rest of my body. Then I’ll go far away from here and live by my own means, so please, just keep using the toilet like you always have.” And as her life proceeds, to parenthood and middle age, the Head constantly haunts her, finishing body all the time, until one day … The title of the second story (third originally), Embodiment (몸하다) raises some translation issues as in Korean 몸 means body, but the verb 몸하다 - “to body”- can also mean to menstruate, which Hur deftly explains in the form of a dictionary entry style epigraph. A young woman has issues with her periods, and is advised to take birth control pills, only to find an odd side effect, that, despite being a virgin, she is pregnant. She is advised by the staff that her baby will only develop properly if she finds a father for it, so embarks on a series of ill-fated matchmaking dates - 선, which Hur romanises as seon. The story here leans to the comic, with rather bemused suitors, when they realise her request, a blackmailer who says he will claim he is the father, an elderly Chaebol owner after a heir and one wannabe suitor who serenades her with Shakespeare in badly pronounced Konglish. Hur does a wonderful job of rendering this last in English e.g. “itseu my lobeu” for “it’s my love” (from Act 2 Scene 2 of Romeo and Juliet). The title story Cursed Bunny (저주 토끼) begins with the quote that opens my review and tells the story of the narrator’s grandfather, who created cursed objects, such as the lamp shaped like a bunny rabbit, for his customers. In this case the cursed bunny was one he made to seek his own revenge (violating his own rules) on a company who had put a friend out of business by unscrupulous means, leading to the friend’s suicide. The lamp, once gifted to the CEO, creates chaos in the life of the CEO’s family and his business, but also with implications for the grandfather. The Frozen Finger (차가운 손가락) is a rather surreal ghost story, and Snare (덫) a genuinely creepy folk-tale type of story about a man who finds a fox, caught in a snare, that bleeds gold. He takes it home and uses it to build his wealth, but when the fox dies and his twins are born, his Midas-like obsession takes a sinister and disturbing turn, cursed perhaps by the fox. Goodbye My Love (안녕, 내 사랑) has a designer of artificial companions deciding it’s time to replace her first robot, and her one true love, although the androids have other ideas. The story is also noticeable for a reference to the uncanny valley concept - one that neatly summarises the collection. Scars (흉터) is the longest story at 52 pages (the others typically 20) and is a satisfying story which begins with a boy, unsure of his own identity, taken to a cave as an offering to a mysterious creature. Home Sweet Home (즐거운 나의 집) beings with a dispute about property tax between a young couple who own a small mixed-used building and one of their tenants, owners of a blood-sausage stew (순대국집) restaurant. But the building, which they were sold at a 복덕방, an old fashioned term for an estate-agent’s office which Hur romanises as bokdeokbang and also translates literally as fortune gainer, has secrets of its own. Ruler of the Winds and Sands (바람과 모래의 지배자) takes us more in to the realm of legend, although with a science-fiction flavour. And the final story Reunion (재회) is set in Poland, with Polish text included (the author translates from the language) and is a love story of sorts with a ghostly twist. The author’s own take on the collection explains how the characters, be that people, robots or rabbits, are typically alone and coping with a wild, unfamiliar, at times beautiful but at other times barbaric world: “이 책 《저주 토끼》는 쓸쓸한 이야기들의 모음이다. 이야기의 주인공들은 모두 외롭다. 세상은 대체로 사납고 낯설고 가끔 매혹적이거나 아름다울 때도 있지만 그럴 때조차 근본적으로 야만적인 곳이며, 등장인물(혹은 등장토끼 혹은 등장로봇)들은 사랑하거나 기뻐하기보다는 주로 좌절하고 절망하고 분노하고 욕망하고 분투하고 배신하고 배신당하거나 살해하거나 살해당하는 방식으로 타인과 관계를 맺고 세상과 교류한다. Recommended, and in my view an early contender for the 2022 International Booker Prize.

One of the best things about Goodreads is that it broadens your reading horizons in baffling directions. If a few years ago you had told me that I would be reading — and enjoying! — a collection of horror stories, I would have probably just chuckled, suspecting a joke. It is not that I have anything against the genre. The problem is me: horror aesthetics and my sensitivity are not very compatible and I tend to mull over grisly scenes for weeks. Well, here I am, not only having finished Cursed Bunny (2017) but actually liking it. Can something be disturbing yet oddly fascinating at the same time? Apparently, yes. I am not going to lie to you: there are unsettling, creepy and even sickening things, scenes, characters and events in Bora Chung's stories but the book is so absorbing that, to my amazement, I did not mind them most of the time. Some reviewers emphasize that they have never read anything like that before and I found the originality of Cursed Bunny striking. Truth be told, I am not very surprised it was shortlisted for the International Booker Prize last year. Bora Chung's intention was not only to entertain her readers and impress them with her imagination. She delves into some serious stuff also, for example, feministic issues, capitalism or animal abuse. I have the impression that the Booker nomination was Cursed Bunny's curse: judging by some scathing reviews, a few people reached for this book not being aware of its domineering genre and ended up feeling utterly disgusted and unpleasantly shocked. If you do not like spicy food, you usually do not go to a Mexican restaurant and then complain that the food was piquant there. One of the things I liked most was the genre-bending aspect of the short stories in Cursed Bunny. For instance, Goodbye my love has some elements of science fiction, Scars of fantasy, Reunion of a ghost and love story, Snare of a myth or fairytale. Interestingly, Bora Chung's stories showcase even level which is not often the case in collections. As for my personal preferences, the closer to magical realism or fantasy and farther from typical horror, the better. The two stories which I liked the best are Scars and Ruler of the Winds and Sands. There was a big potential in Snare also but it turned out too dark for my liking. Oddly, the title story, Cursed Bunny, appealed to me the least. An added bonus for me: Reunion is set in an unnamed city in Poland which resembles Cracow and there are even some sentences in Polish. I mustered my courage to dive into Bora Chung's collection thanks to Alan's unmissable and motivating review with succinct, informative and spoiler-free descriptions of every single short story in Cursed Bunny. I have the feeling my four-star rating for this book may be a bit overgenerous but I wanted to celebrate its uniqueness, the author's artistry at the grotesque, surrealist imagery and quirky humour evident even in the title of the collection. Rabbit Tales — Wiggle Room, Robyn Ryan.

The opening story in Cursed Bunny is about a woman who spends her life being followed by a malformed head that emerges from her toilet. Read it and you’ll know how you’re likely to feel about this book. Bora Chung’s stories are simultaneously bleak and bizarre, often crueller than expected and topped off with a healthy dose of surrealism, as if Ottessa Moshfegh’s Homesick For Another World had been spliced with Junji Ito manga. The style varies wildly: ‘Goodbye, My Love’, a tale of AI gone awry, wouldn’t be out of place in an Alexander Weinstein collection; ‘Ruler of the Winds and Sands’ reads like a forgotten fairytale; ‘Reunion’, less outlandish than the others, is a subdued story of ghosts and twisted love set in Poland. I really liked the title story (man curses business rival via a rabbit-shaped lamp) and ‘Home Sweet Home’ (young couple buy a very unlucky building); I was less keen on ‘The Frozen Finger’, which affects an action- and dialogue-driven style that is only partly successful. But it might be ‘Scars’, a hauntingly grim fantasy, that will prove most memorable. Anyone who loved Cursed Bunny would likely get a lot out of Kristen Roupenian’s You Know You Want This, and vice versa. TinyLetter | Linktree

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2022 This is a great, innovative short story collection that you should totally read, but I'm hijacking this post to tell you that my interview with jury chair Frank Wynne is now online in its entirety - you can listen to it here.

When the first story introduces us to a formless mass made of fallen out hair, feces and toilet paper that utters the word "Mother!" before being flushed down the toilet — you're not exactly sure what you're in for. This collection of short stories / modern day fairytales benefit from the stellar translation of Anton Sur and are by turns hilarious, horrifying and more than a little absurd. Bora Chung walks a fine line that balances all these elements and arrives at something unexpected — not always mind you, one of the stories fell completely flat for me — but there's always going to be hits and misses with a collection like this. Chung is otherwise throwing twist upon twist and I love her bent toward horror, the very Korean theme of revenge, and the price of human greed.

Maybe like a 3.5--not quite a 4. I think some stories were a little underdeveloped like, The Frozen Finger and some stories were overdone like, Scars. Oddly enough, the first two are my favorite. Snare was full on horror and felt like the world's most graphic fable/parable Those were my favorite, the rest were well-written just not as memorable. I'm eager to read more of her work Story by Story Updates: The first story, "Head" is amazing. A woman flushes the toilet one day and sees a formless head pop out of it. The head calls her mother. She learns that the head is creating a body for itself out of everything the woman flushed down the toilet. The ending is WILD. what the actual fuck? "The Embodiment" is about a woman who is having a very heavy, abnormal period so she is prescribed some birth control pills. She ends up taking them for too long and winds up pregnant. She's told to find a father for the baby FAST or else the baby will be messed up "Cursed Bunny" "Cursing others leads to two graves." "The Frozen Finger"--so weird. A woman regains consciousness and hears a disembodied voice calling her and telling her to get out of the car, they're in a swamp and the story of how she got there keeps changing...it's just a strange story "Snare"--a fable or folktale about a man who traps a fox in a snare. The fox bleeds gold so he brings it home...tortures it for years getting gold from it, has a family that's cursed and all this crazy violence ensues so "Scars" is novelette length. It's about a youth that is kidnapped and given to a beast as a sacrifice. This story is extremely disturbing and violent. I skimmed over the dog/animal fighting--I hate when that shows up in books. This was good though, I like storytelling that feels like a legend "Home Sweet Home"--a cautionary tale about greed and capitalism, selfish ambition Ruler of the Winds and Sands--I loved this one, like a dark fairytale REUNION--I skimmed this one honestly, it happens for me on the last story of a collection, I get burned out

i've heard too many things about this book from too many cool people for it not to be good. what it was: a very chilling look at a real experience that is as frightening as it is possible. it also has moments of being purely nonsensical, which undercuts that a bit. in attempting to relay the horrors that the girls of oakland, and of many other places, can go through, it overplays its hand at times: aging down our protagonist, creating so many obstacles, constructing actions that don't make sense in order to lead to climactic consequences. but overall, the story is so alarming and so real that these moments of surrealism are pretty easy to overlook. bottom line: expectations met.

Nightcrawling answered all the questions I didn't know I had. I've read numerous reviews of this book, and I agree with them all except those who criticize the writing and plot. Nightcrawling has been a struggle for me. Reading the book was a struggle. Writing this review has also been a struggle. I beg you for your tolerance, patience, and compassion. Nightcrawling was a difficult book for me to rate. Here's a summary of the rating process I used. First, the writing is top-notch. Therefore, I started with a 5. However, the subject matter is extremely unpleasant, so I subtracted 2 points for reader pain and suffering. Finally, I added 1 extra point for white man's guilt and ended up with a final rating of 4. If you're a sociologist, economist, political scientist, teacher, or novelist, I'd say this is a must-read book. If you read mainly for pleasure, then you probably should avoid this book. No one should have to live life the way Kiara Johnson lived after her troubles started, but the sad truth is that many people do. Regretfully, there are people who put their best foot forward but still discover doors are slammed shut in their faces. Also, some authority figures are jerks. They want others "to feel small so they can feel big," and there will always be people like Kiara Johnson who "don't got no other choice" except to choose amongst many bad alternatives. This is a sociologically important book. It's also politically and economically important. It makes all the bad stuff we may know about on an intellectual level feel viscerally real, and this realism burrows deep into the marrow of our bones. Nightcrawling proves that sometimes fiction has more realism (is more believable) than nonfiction. This is an important book. It helps us understand the economics of our world. It helps us viscerally feel how economics impacts the lives of everyday people. Nightcrawling is not an easy book to read. It makes us care about people and then forces us to watch them as they stumble and fall. Nightcrawling made me feel deeply blue in my heart and soul, but the book's ending brought me great relief. It was upbeat but still realistic. In its own way, the book's ending redefined family to include the people who help lift you up in times of trouble.

My Reviews Can Also Be Found On: The Book Review Crew Blog This book was so crushingly heartbreaking and so difficult to read, especially since it is based on true events. The author was just seventeen when she wrote it, but I in no way could tell it was written by someone so young; in fact, it was quite the opposite. The prose of this novel will floor you; it is so lyrical and poetic, even if the subject matter is so dark. This is not a book for the weak of heart or stomach, but if triggers don't get to you and you can handle a gritty tale, I highly recommend this one for the sheer brilliance of the writing alone. I know this is a short review, but I don't think I can add anything or do any justice to this book. I was amazed. My Goodreads friend, Kelly, turned me onto this book. Her review can be found HERE. She's much better at this reviewing stuff than I am, so check it out...thanks, Kelly! Many thanks to my local library for my copy of the book. The two weeks I waited for the book sure were worth it! Thanks, Toronto Public Library!

Oof, what a powerful debut novel. Nightcrawling details the story of seventeen-year-old Kiara Johnson, a young Black teenager who turns to sex work to pay her family’s rent and care for the abandoned nine-year-old boy next door. I think Leila Mottley does an excellent job portraying the many pressures and forces of oppression in this Black girl’s life: the weight of caring for the Black men in her life, the abuse enacted upon her by the police, and how some women (e.g., women affiliated with the police, her own mother) judge her for the actions she took to survive. Despite the intergenerational and present-day trauma Kiara experiences, she still cultivates some moments of joy and connection, such as with her on and off-partner Alé and her connection with the boy next door, Trevor. Overall, I felt immersed in this story and so angry and saddened by the immense difficulties in Kiara’s life. Mottley’s writing is vivid and gripping and expresses Kiara’s pain and how she’s forced to put one foot in front of the other to just get to the next day. I appreciated how Mottley didn’t give us a happy ending, because it’s up to us with privilege to fight for a world where Black women aren’t forced into these horrendous circumstances. In her author’s note, Mottley says she felt inspired to write this after learning about the Oakland Police Department’s sexual exploitation of young women – I think she did a successful job of capturing this injustice and bringing it to readers’ attention with Nightcrawling.

10th in my 2022 Booker Prize longlist rankings - my Bookstagram rating, ranking, summary review and Book themed Golden Retriever photo is here: https://www.instagram.com/p/ChbeUjxs1... "I don't know." I tell her, and I really don't. Telling her would have been like saying this is my life now, like committing to the streets. Letting the streets have you is like planning your own funeral. I wanted the streetlight brights, the money in the morning, not the back alleys. Not the sirens. But, here we are. Streets always find you in the daylight, when you least expect them to. Night crawling up to me when the sun's out. To write an accomplished literary novel at the age of 19 is an impressive feat. For it not to be (as one might thing) autobiographical but instead based on a real life example of insitutionalised misconduct (here by the Oakland Police Force) and aimed at giving a voice to the voiceless victims even more so. But to do that with such an originality of phrase and language in a way which not just gives that voice (here a seventeen year old) a level of articulation, but also effectively confronts the structural sexism by disassembling conventional writing is I think close to astonishing. The book’s protagonist is Kiara Johnson. Her father was later in life a Black Panther, stitched up by the police and jailed he died of undiscovered cancer some time after his release. Her devastated mother is in a halfway home on parole after an attempted suicide which followed the drowning of Kiara’s baby sister due to neglect. Kiara’s older brother – who initially committed to looking after her – has instead focused all his efforts on an attempt to break through as a rapper, his and his friends lack of talent leading them instead to increasing involvement in crime. Kaira is also babysitter and effective care giver to a 9-10 year old Trevor – the largely abandoned son of a junkie in her flat. The book opens with Kiara receiving a notice of a huge hike in the rent she and her brother can already not cover – and struggling to make any headway with a job, she drifts into prostitution and from there to servicing a group of policemen (anonymous to her and us and only known by their badge numbers) at a series of parties. When one of the policemen commits suicide and names his guilt over his treatment of her in his note – a major misconduct enquiry kicks off, but this only makes Kiara’s life harder as the police force closes ranks to protect its own and to discredit her testimony in front of a Grand Jury and both her brother and Trevor are swept up in the aftermath. As an aside the book opens with an excrement filled swimming pool – which made me worry we had an other Ottessa, more Moshfegh – but that was far from the case, Leila Mottley is a much more accomplished writer, and the pool rather than gratuitous scatology is instead a recurring and important image in the book – representing a sense of frustrated and fouled up freedom and friendship. So why not a five star review. Well to be honest the voice did not really quite work for me. I always have a slight issue with novels where the writer is from a more privileged educational background than their protagonist and yet gives that protagonist an unusual eloquence. But I think the larger issue here is that the book seems to permanently be dialled up to a 10 and unlike Nigel Tufnel and his famous Marshall amplifier (https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=KOO5S4v...) it leaves her with no where to go to add additional emphasis. And perhaps as a corollary to this – for a novel which is largely around getting us into the head of a memorable narrator, I felt myself always slightly distanced from her, the author at times I think favouring phraseology over clarity. But overall while far from flawless, this is I believe the first novel of what will be a famous and fresh new voice in fiction, and worth reading for that alone.

Leila Mottley is living the dream. Last week, the 19-year-old author released her debut novel, “Nightcrawling,” with the prestigious publisher Alfred A. Knopf. And Oprah picked it for her book club, essentially guaranteeing the novel bestseller status. Such instant success at such an early age — youngest Oprah pick ever! — can create a distortion field of exaggerated expectations, but in this case, “Nightcrawling” really is a powerful, poignant story worth your attention. Despite all of Mottley’s good fortune, she demonstrates an extraordinary degree of sympathy with people who have none. What’s even more remarkable is that “Nightcrawling” isn’t one of those thinly disguised diaries we’ve come to expect from precocious young novelists who can’t think of anything else to write about except their own heartache. Mottley explains in an author’s note that she was inspired by a scandal that broke in Oakland, Calif., while she was a high-schooler there: In 2015, a police officer’s suicide note launched an investigation into the sexual exploitation of a young woman involving several police departments in the Bay Area. Using the general outlines of that case, Mottley has imagined the life of a 17-year-old African American high school dropout named Kiara Johnson. As the story begins, Kiara’s life is already shattered. Her charismatic. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

based on a true case involving the oakland police force , nightcrawling is a searing debut novel which explores the dark underbelly of a city and justice system rife with exploitation, corruption, poverty, and structural abuses of power which have been allowed to fester for years. albeit difficult to read at times, the novel’s darkness is softened by its lyrical prose, which becomes even more impressive once you realise that the author was only 17 when it was written. the book's protagonist kiara is a force of a character, serving as a raw reflection of the violence enacted upon black women and girls, but also a celebration of their strength and courage. she’s one of those protagonists that you will continue to think about even after you’ve closed the book.

3.5 Longlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize Longlisted for Center for Fiction First Novel Prize "In 2016 in the Bay area, a case broke where a young girl was sexually exploited by many Bay area officers… I was wondering about this girl and this particular iteration of police violence that I think a lot of us don't talk about. " Leila Mottley to Trevor Noah on the Dailey show Nightcrawling, Leila Mottley's much-lauded debut novel, has earned her the reputation of "wonder kid." Written when Mottley graduated high school at 17, Nightcrawling has been a New York Times bestseller, selected by Ophrah Winfrey's Book Club, and longlisted for prestigious literary prizes. After finishing the novel, I found myself intrigued by three stories: the author's tale, the novel itself, and the 2016 case that inspired the book. The Author: Who is Leila Mottley? Leila Mottley was born in 2002 and, at 20, is considered a rising star on the literary scene. She grew up in Oakland and is the youngest of three children of a biracial couple Ann Bauer, the Director of a local pre-school, and Norris Mottley, a fundraising consultant, and playwright. Leila learned her love of writing from her father and began writing poetry at an early age. Her interest in the writing led Leila to enroll at Oakland School for the Arts, a 6-12 charter school emphasizing arts education. Here Leila's poetic talents were recognized by her teachers, who encouraged her to apply to the competition for the poet laureate of the city of Oakland, a title she won in 2018. As a result, Leila began to give poetry readings and participate in poetry slams throughout the city. When Leila was fourteen, in 2016, the story of the teenage sex worker exploited by the local police broke in the news. The story moved her, and she followed it with great interest. Then, in her senior year, Leila began to write a novel about a young black woman who became trapped in this situation. When Leila entered Smith College in the fall of 2019, she showed the story to her creative writing instructor, Ruth Ozeki. She recognized the book's potential and referred Leila to her literary agent. After a bidding war, the novel was picked up by Knopf publishing. The Novel: Nightcrawling Nightcrawling is the story of Kiara Johnson, a 17-year-old African- American Oakland teenager whose options have run out. Both of her parents are out of the picture. Her father, a former Black Panther, died of prostrate cancer upon release from prison. Her mother is in a halfway house for drowning her infant daughter. Oakland is gentrifying, and the rent on the apartment Kiara shares with her older brother has just been doubled. To make matters worse, her brother has decided to pursue a career as a rap star and refuses to work. In addition, Kiara cares for and provides a semblance of stability for her next-door neighbor Trevor, the 9-year-old son of an unreliable drug addict. As Kiara is a high school dropout, she has difficulty finding work and decides to turn a few tricks to make rent and food for the month. Unfortunately, Kiara is caught by two unscrupulous cops who threaten her with arrest unless she provides sex at police parties. She complies, and the abuse is brutal. Then, one of the officers involved commits suicide and names her in a tell-all suicide note. Internal affairs get involved, and Kiara's life spirals further out of control as she becomes the key witness in a massive police scandal. When Nightcrawling was longlisted for the Booker, I decided to read it or rather listen to it on audible. I was interested in finding out what had inspired a group of critics to select the work of a 17- year- old for such a prestigious award. I finished the book two days ago, and I think that what makes the book work or what made it work for me was the authenticity of the protagonist's voice. What Leila Mottley understands is what it is like to be an adolescent. This book could have easily become a work of sordid sensationalism, but it doesn't. Sad, abusive scenes are followed by segments demonstrating friendship and resilience. There are happy and tender moments with the nine-year-old Trevor and with her best friend. I didn't feel that Nightcrawling was a great work of literary fiction. It doesn't compare to a book like Shuggie Bain, which won the Booker two years ago. However, it is quite an accomplishment for a 17-year-old, and I look forward to reading her future work. The Case that Inspired the Novel or Truth is Stranger than Fiction (Forgive the Cliché) When I finished the novel, I googled the 2016 Oakland police scandal. I found the story of Celeste Guap ((pseudonym). Celeste's family is originally from Nicaragua. Her mother worked as a police dispatcher for the Oakland Police, earning over $100,000. Celeste's mother was involved with a police officer who was like a father to Celeste. Unfortunately, he was killed in the line of duty when she was 12. After his death, she began to occasionally exchange sex for money. In a newspaper interview, Celeste said that she did it because it was "all around her." She made connections via social media and slept with three police officers as a minor. Celeste believes that none of what happened to her would have occurred if her mother's boyfriend had been alive. She claims he would never have allowed it. However, she was coerced into providing sex to multiple partners at police parties. Unbeknown to her mother, several of the officers involved were her " friends." When one of the officers committed suicide and named her in his confession. Like her fictional counterpart, Celeste became the center of a police scandal. A few officers lost their jobs, and others just received reprimands. Celeste sued the Department and received a million dollars in compensation with no liability. She is now 23, lives with her two-year-old son, and works as a Sex Workers' Rights Activist. On her Facebook page, Celeste was asked about the book Nightcrawling. She said, "It's pure fiction." NPR News Account: https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-w...

3.5 As many others had stated before me, this is an impressive debut novel, written by a teenager no less, when she was seventeen-eighteen. The fact that it is based on a real life case makes this novel more powerful. Of course, it's horrific that the police, who are supposed to protect and respect the law, disregard it, not to mention the ick and moral considerations - using a seventeen-year-old for sex parties. The narrator of this novel is seventeen year old, Kiara Johnson, who had been dealt bad cards in life - her father passed away, her mother is in jail, and her guardian, her older brother is a lost, head-in-the-sky dreamer, who can't help to pay the rent. The rent is put up yet again, there are no jobs to come by, so what's one to do? Start night crawling. I appreciate Mottley's intentions and writing, to be honest, I wasn't quite as affected by the novel as I should have been. Something was missing. Grittiness (is that a word?)? Throughout the novel, I felt distanced from what was happening to the characters - I could always sense the author's hand and viewpoints when writing beautiful, impressive sentences, which I didn't quite believe as they were supposed to come from a teen who hadn't finished high school. While I'm not one to care about endings, I don't expect books to have nicely wrapped endings, in this case, the last part of the novel and the ending felt rushed, unbaked and left me unsatisfied. Regardless of the fact that I wanted a bit more from this novel, Mottley showcased her talent in this novel, so I'm looking forward to reading more from her.

Oof this book is difficult to read in the sense that it deals with some darker topics but man is it gripping. This book is a slow burn book with a slight mystery to it, but the mystery is really not the focus of the book. It is really about following Kiara day to day, seeing what she is forced to do in order to survive and how she is constantly used, abused, and exploited. There are so many reveals and twists that will break your heart. Watch me discuss it more in my June wrap up: https://youtu.be/7_AW_bJl1LU

Feces, dung, poop, excrement, egesta, shit, no matter how it is stated, the courteous thing to do is to pick up the doo-doo. At the Regal-Hi, located in a project of Oakland this common courtesy is not extended. Thus, this novel the debut from Leila Mottley lets you know from the start that this is not going to be a Cinderella story. The world in which the characters inhabit this story is a cold one, filled with woe and pain. The glimmers of hope are few and far between found in places like a funeral, in which the protagonist, Kiara and her friend Ale go to get their grub on or the basketball court where Trevor hustles a few dollars off of kids. Almost everyone in this world is trying to exploit their neighbor and more often than not, Kiara is the one whose pound of flesh they are taking. With a jailed mother, a deceased father and a delusional brother, Kiara has been on the precipice for a while. Too young to be an exotic dancer and not interested in earning nickels on the dollar as a petty drug dealer or fast food worker, her options are limited. School, never much an option for furthering her plans is completely off the table as she has dropped out. She is faced with all of this turmoil and to top it off rent is about to double due to gentrification. With dwindling funds, she decides the only acceptable solution is to ply her trade in the oldest profession. While plying her trade, Kiara is befriended by a transgender prostitute by the name of Camila. Camila acts as a bit of an older sister to Kiara, giving her tips on how to dress, present herself and where best to make her living. Alas, Camila is not just doing this out of the kindness of her heart. By acting as a conduit, she is trying to persuade Kiara to join with her pimp. After a raucous party, Kiara is forced into the arms of an adversary much more vicious than any pimp: the Oakland Police Department. Under the guise of protection and having limited recourse, Kiara is forced; essentially being a sex slave to a number of Oakland’s finest. Not only do they have her profession to blackmail her but her brother, Marcus has been picked up for intent to distribute drugs on a trumped up charge. On the throes of degradation she is passed along like the proverbial dobbie where she encounters one particular harrowing scene, in which a cop is brandishing his firearm in a pseudo-sexual manner. She is so used to the dehumanizing behavior that when a cop gives her the girlfriend treatment she is more taken aback than the pump and dumps. During a police function, a detective described as wearing a “purple suit” tries to get some information from Kiara about the rumors of a police sex ring. Not trusting her, she is reluctant to part any information to the lady in the purple suit, Sandra. Sandra gives her card and tells her to call if she can be of assistance. Leveraging the situation with Marcus’s impending incarceration, Sandra coaxes Kiara by giving her the number of a good attorney, Marsha. Marsha takes the case pro-bono and seems to be the legal eagle that Kiara needs. She is meticulous in appearance and craft. She has a fearlessness that gives hope to Kiara. Despite her best efforts in coaching Kiara and doggedly going through the proper channels an indictment never came. Kiara is left further broken. Risking life and limb, a pariah as a snitch, she has been exploited further. Her shitty situation has somehow even gotten worse. Even with all of this turbulence, Kiara has somehow still found perspective. No doubt life is hard, hers especially so but she has continued to survive. She has formed a tightknit community with her best friend Alejandra who has become her partner and her next door neighbor Tyler whose home situation is even more fraught than her own. With a past that she would like to forget and a future that is at best cloudy, she must live in the present. This means she has to savor what she can and hang on to the ones she loves and those that reciprocate back. As a debut novel at the young age of 17, Leila Mottley has written a novel with a strong protagonist and weaker secondary characters. The laser focus on Kiara for the part is necessary, as it shows the exploitation and negligence of those surrounding her. Not only has the system failed her but the apparatus in place is used by the authorities to gain clout while pushing her down. Whether it is the detective using Kiara to advance her career in the police department, her lawyer gaining publicity for her firm during the trial or the police blackmailing her, no one in positions of power comes out looking good. This is a dog-eat-dog world in which Kiara is merely a pawn.

CW: police violence, statutory rape, death of a loved one, self harm, drowning

it's very difficult for me to describe why this book lost a star. This book is missing a punch that it so deeply needs and I believe that is because of the writing. The book towards the middle seems to go from event to event without any real context to ground the scene. We get so much great detail in the beginning which makes it feel like we are setting up one type of story but it seems like that gets abandoned half way through for a lot of introspection and to hurry the book along. Things are happening to our protagonist but we are not fully feeling the impact (although I believe that could be intentional in order to convey its message) but what that does is makes you feel left out of the story. With that all being said this was written by a teenager and is such a remarkable feat and this is overall a very good story. but I can't help but feel like someone 10 years older than author should have written this book. You feel so disconnected from the main character at so many times. the "true crime" element falls short and is the worst plot in this because we are never truly faced with the way our protagonist is hurt outside of the obvious. our protagonist never feels vulnerable because the scenes where she is being abused are not written to the best of their abilities.

Phew. Finally, I can let out the breath I’ve been holding since I started reading this nightmare. Mottley started writing this book when she was 17, and she is truly a woman wise beyond her years. We follow Kiara, a young girl struggling to make rent. When she stumbles upon the sad, unfortunate fact that she can trade her body for cash, she lands herself in a ring of sorts involving members of the Oakland Police Department. Parts of the book were a bit slow for me, but there were other times where I was racing through the pages and hoping that at some point, I would find Kiara free. Based on a true story that broke out in 2016, Nightcrawling exposes sexual exploitation and trafficking in a way that I’m not confident has been done before. While I wish it stayed a bit more accurate to the real events, I would recommend this read—just know there are differences and don’t neglect researching the case.

This is a novel to look forward to. Incredible writing for a debut. Those poetic lines sprinkled through the prose made this book shine even though the story is super heartbreaking. Leila Mottley is a new voice that I’m excited to follow. Can’t wait to see what she writes next because there’s no denying the talent that she has.

Nightcrawling is a novel based on a 2015 court case in which the Oakland Police Department was accused of sexually exploiting a teenager and trying to cover it up. In the book Kiara, a 17-year-old high school dropout is desperately trying to keep herself and Trevor, the 9-year-old son of her crack-addicted neighbor from losing their flat. Feeling she has no other options; she turns to prostitution. The writing is what elevates this story to something special. The author has a gorgeous, lush style, which at times almost feels like poetry, and sometimes she even manages to create so much rhythm that you can hear the music it’s set to. She contrasts this beautiful writing with all the ugly things described. And yes, Nightcrawling isn’t perfect. Sometimes the writing became superfluous and I also would have liked to see more character development from the secondary characters. But read the scene where Kiara and Trevor gets separated and tell me that this is not one of the most heart-breaking scenes ever written.The 20-year-old author is the youngest ever to make it to the Booker longlist, and I can’t wait to see what she’ll be publishing next. I listened to the audio version, narrated by Joniece Abbott-Pratt, and if possible I recommend that you too listen to this as Joniece does an outstanding job in infusing every sentence with emotion.

Thanks to NetGalley & Knopf for an eARC of this book. The following review is my honest reflection on the text provided. "The swimming pool is filled with dog shit and Dee's laughter mocks us at dawn." From the first line, Nightcrawling draws you in. The writing style is without frills, blunt and honest and setting the scene immediately. Nightcrawling shows the inconsistency and fragility of family and friendship in poverty. It paints a very clear picture of how the system fails those who need it most. And even when help does come, it's often too little or too late. This narrative's raw honesty and vulnerability is so compelling that even though this story is hard to read, it's definitely worth it. Kiara's heart beats outside her body, caring for everyone around her and putting herself last. Due to this strength, she does whatever it takes to care for the people in her life. However, this empathy is a double-edged sword and the things she has to do to care for these people leave deep, horrifying scars. "Mama used to tell me that blood is everything, but I think we're all out here unlearning that sentiment, scraping our knees and asking strangers to patch us back up." Nightcrawling is an incredible, unmissable debut novel that I could not recommend more highly. Review originally posted here on Britt's Book Blurbs. Amazon | Blog | Bookstagram | Reddit

Kiara Johnson is a 17-year old girl from Oakland whose father has died, whose mother is in jail and whose brother only cares about becoming a famous rapper. It falls on unemployed Kiara to pay the rent and take care of 10-year old Trevor. It doesn't come as a surprise then that she makes a wrong choice for which she pays dearly. It was refreshing to read something from the perspective of the poor Californian suburbs and very interesting to hear the voice of a new generation. For much of the book I thought the story was autobiographical, admittedly because the author is so young but also because it is quite straightforward and chronological. The fact that it's not and still felt realistic is a compliment.

Nightcrawling is a visceral, unflinching debut that refuses to look away from the intersections of systemic failure, survival and girlhood. at its center is Kiara, a teenage girl navigating the harsh realities of poverty, abandonment and exploitation in Oakland, California. Mottley constructs her world with unrelenting realism, never romanticizing the violence or reducing Kiara’s experience to victimhood. Kiara is the beating heart of the novel. her voice is direct, lyrical and sharp and what makes this story unforgettable. she’s not written as an archetype of resilience or strength, but as someone constantly pulled under by circumstances far beyond her control. Mottley resists the temptation to offer tidy arcs or moral clarity and instead lets Kiara’s choices, sometimes desperate, sometimes defiant, speak for themselves. what stood out most to me was Mottley’s prose: poetic without being precious, urgent without losing control. her background as a poet is evident in the rhythm and cadence of the narration. there’s a rawness in her writing that suits the story perfectly and even when the subject matter is at its heaviest, the language carries moments of unexpected grace. the one element that held this back from a full five stars was the pacing. certain sections, particularly in the middle third, lose some momentum as the narrative loops through similar emotional beats. while this might reflect Kiara’s stasis and helplessness, it occasionally undercut the tension the story builds so effectively elsewhere. still, it is a remarkable first novel. it is not just a story about one girl’s nightmarish reality, but rather an indictment of the systems that fail people like Kiara over and over again. Mottley has written a debut that demands attention, one that balances lyrical beauty with political urgency.

Extremely well written, harrowing, and necessary

Nero Book Awards 2025 - Fiction Winner Booker Longlist 2025 If you've ever lived by the sea -especially in the winter- when the days are grey, damp and full of an engulfing mist, then the scene is set in Seascraper in atmosphere and climate.. Thomas Flett works as a shanker- he drags a net through the sandy wet coastline channels of Longferry beach led by his horse to catch shrimp. This is the occupation that he inherited from his grandfather- a tireless, exhausting occupation that pays little and stretches Thomas to his physical limit . It is the 1960s and Thomas lives with his mother- who having raised Thomas without a father places a continual pressure upon him to earn a living for them both. His only escape is his love of books and to secretly play the guitar and attend a music night at a local bar whilst contemplating who is father was. Life changes with the unexpected arrival Edgar Acheson who charms his way into their home and requests( for a fee) that Thomas shows him the area and how he carries out his occupation with the goal that the information can be used towards a film he intends to produce. Could this be a life changing moment for Thomas- a chance to break the monotony and hardship? The story takes place over a two day period and the pervading sense of melancholy, routine and hardship is palpable- rather like the grim weather. The conflicted emotions of Thomas are palpable- his desire for change permeates off the page.... is this the time for change ? Poetic, brooding and charged with sense of claustrophobia from the encroaching mist, Benjamin Wood has written a novel that will linger with you long after completion.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 This book has a great atmosphere, which is the best approach for a short novel with an unclear subject. There is certainly beauty here, though I think different readers will find it in different places. The prose is very cinematic - fitting, given that Thomas, the shanker at the center of the story, gets to hold onto this Hollywood hope for half the book. But I think this is ultimately a book about small dreams, not big ones. There is beauty in a simple life, but we don't need to idealize it, just as we don't need to celebrate ambition that crushes others. This may be my first read from this year’s Booker longlist, but I’ll be surprised if it doesn’t make the shortlist.

Over the years, Benjamin Wood has become one of those writers I trust enough that any new book is a must-read. I can always count on Wood for great writing – lean, lovely prose, never showy – but the themes are unpredictable; I never know quite what I’m going to get. The campus novel with a capital-W Weird twist in The Bellwether Revivals; the art novel-slash-psychological puzzle of The Ecliptic; the sizzling violence and tension in A Station on the Path to Somewhere Better; and a quieter, more subdued historical novel in The Young Accomplice. And now Seascraper, which feels like it follows most naturally from its immediate predecessor, yet with a markedly different tone: edgier, more mystical. Thomas Flett is a ‘shanker’, a shrimp-dragger with a horse, cart and nets – out on the tidal flats doing the job his grandfather did, even though it’s the 1960s now and that world is already folding in on itself. He loves playing music, but doesn’t even feel it’s an appropriate hobby for a man like him, let alone a way to make a living. Thomas is a man trapped between lives: on the one hand, he’s only 20 and lives with his mother (herself still young; she was a teenage mum), who often treats him like he’s still a boy. On the other hand, he’s old before his time, worn down by the physical demands of his work, and feels it’s already too late to make changes to his life. Into this monotony bursts Edgar Acheson, a film producer who’s been scouting for locations in the area and thinks Longferry beach, Thomas’s shrimping turf, would be perfect for his next project. It’s difficult to go into exactly what happens next without spoiling the whole thing. But it’s about Thomas coming to terms with his legacy – his dying trade, his father’s absence – and how Edgar’s presence has a life-changing ripple effect, even if not in the way Thomas, or the reader, might expect. There’s arguably a touch of magical realism in there, too. Seascraper is a short novel, and if I have a criticism, it’s that it could have been fleshed out so much more. Thomas’s relationship with his mother, the pivotal prophecy or vision, the whole situation with Edgar… I would have liked to explore any (or all) of these threads further. I would have liked to read some of The Outermost, a fictitious book within the book that could have added an extra layer of unreality to the whole thing. (Although I appreciate ‘unreality’ is not necessarily what Wood is going for here; it’s me who has the instinct to turn towards the strange.) If you liked Ben Tufnell’s The North Shore or James Clarke’s Sanderson’s Isle, this one will probably hit. Tighter and more focused than The Young Accomplice, it’s a good balance of tension and sentiment, the sort of balancing act that only someone with Wood’s talent could actually pull off. I received an advance review copy of Seascraper from the publisher through NetGalley.

A gentle story about a young man named Thomas, working in a disappearing world of scraping the seashore for shrimps for a living on the north west coast of England, possibly Lancashire, and in what seems to be 1963 or 1964, based on a reference to the film Lawrence of Arabia. Thomas knows life around him is changing, but family circumstances mean he continues the work in a way that has been done for generations, with a horse and dragging nets. When he meets a US film director, who asks Thomas to take him out to film the beach under fog to take photos for a film he is making, Thomas thinks more as to his future needs. I listened to the audiobook, beautifully narrated by the author, Benjamin Wood. He gives each character the perfect voice, and even sings a folk song at one point, which fits the story wonderfully. The tale never once overstays its welcome. This was a far better read / listen, than I could have imagined. Booker longlisted novel in 2025 and deservedly so.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2025. I was really impressed by how much the author packs into less than 200 pages. The quiet, poetic writing and vivid, atmospheric descriptions completely drew me in. Thomas, the young man at the heart of the story, feels stuck in a small life — not chasing huge ambitions, just holding on to a small dream. He’s such a lovely character, and I loved watching him grow over the course of just two days. I’m always a fan of a touch of magical realism, and here it fits perfectly in the gothic setting. Lots of reviewers are comparing this to Claire Keegan’s work, but honestly, I found this novella felt more complete and it resonated with me way more than any of Keegan’s I’ve read. I definitely think this deserves a spot on the shortlist. The story: A quiet coastal tale where a shrimp fisherman’s routine is shaken up by a visiting filmmaker — sparking dreams of life beyond the tide.

4,5 - This is a beautiful, little novella and a great addition to the 2025 Booker longlist, which seems to have quite some intellectual works on it (Buckley, Kitamura), whereas this one is all feeling and emotion. Tom scrapes shrimp from the beach and sells them to make a meager living. He's not even very good at it, but what he really wants is to make music and play the guitar. When a wealthy film director from Hollywood comes to his isolated British beach everything changes (or does it?). The style and atmosphere reminded me of Carys Davies and also Audrey Magee's The Colony. I listened partly to the English audio version and partly to the German one. Both are well done, but the English one is something special as the author himself reads it and, quite beautifully, even sings a song he composed for the book.

I will be floored if this book isn't shortlisted. Mostly because the lyrical language is just perfection. If you are a reader who loves craft at the sentence level, this book is definitely for you. For a short novel, almost a novella, it packs some heavy themes. It's mostly about how one young man's yearning for a more meaningful life is at odds with his blue-collar day to day existence. The protagonist, Thomas, is someone the reader can cheer for. The first half is a slow build which makes the second half seem propulsive by comparison. My one qualm is it felt slightly "made for tv" movie-esque, and I had some trouble shaking that perception.

This short book packs a lot in. It's atmospheric and the sparse prose perfectly fits the setting. I recommend this as an audiobook so you can hear the author sing and play the guitar.

3.5 Thomas lives with his mother, waking early every morning to head out onto the sands to ply his trade as a shanker after taking over his grandfather's business scraping the beach for the increasingly rare shrimp. But his dreams are of a life playing music and a date with the bank manager's daughter, Joan. Both these are pipe dreams until a Hollywood director appears seemingly taken with the location and willing to employ Thomas as a guide - even offering him a part to play in the movie. But u is the man all he seems and how big dare Thomas dream? Benjamin Wood has written an atmospheric evocative, almost dream-like, lyrical novel which mixes the helplessness and hopelessness of Thomas situation along with his growing desire for a different life. Thomas is an extremely likeable character and the writing is wonderful. There are echoes of Sarah Hall or Andrew Miller in this book - certainly Wood's use of the landscape as a separate character. I would definitely recommend this novel. I listened to the audio version, which was beautifully read by the author. A lot of readers have described this as "the one that got away" at Booker 2025. I'm not sure I agree, but its rare I agree with the Booker Shortlist anyway.

Well, that was sweet. I feel I got more out of this one reading on Audio because the characters were performed, and the music gave it an extra poignancy. It's a quiet little book, very short, about a young man who followed his Pop into the profession of gathering shrimp from the beach with a horse and cart. One day, a film director shows up and asks him to help scout the beach as a location, and the acquaintance opens up his world. At first, I thought this was going to be very, very boring. There was a lot of hacking up phlegm on a cold beach and pondering his mother's ankles. But there were some truly heartwarming moments in this little novella that melted me. Seascraper was a charming little story, and I recommend doing it on Audio so you get the full impact of the music.

This Booker darling that didn’t make the short list is great, just like everyone says it is. It’s a big ATMOSPHERE novel (novella?). The fog, the beach, the tides, the toil of manual shrimping, a gritty blue collar life of providing and surviving, it’s all a big vibe. It’s all constructed with beautiful, evocative writing on a sentence by sentence level. Thomas Flett is a protagonist to root for, as he dreams of a life that is bigger and more meaningful than the one he feels stuck in. It wasn’t perfectly paced for me, but it was moving and engaging reading. I’m always grateful for the Booker bringing books like this into my reading life.

✨ Meet Thomas Flett. His world is small, defined by the grey beaches of Longferry where he scrapes for shrimp—his grandfather’s trade, now his. His days are a cycle of salt, scum, and quiet yearning: for Joan Wyeth down the street, and for the life of a folk musician he only dares to practice alone in his room. Then a stranger arrives, crackling with the energy of another world—Hollywood. For the first time, Thomas’s dream doesn’t feel so foolish. This American offers a glimpse of a different future, but is his promise real? Seascraper is a haunting and melancholic novel, but at its core, it’s a deeply human and hopeful question: how do we break out of the life we’re given to find the one we’re meant for? Benjamin Wood’s prose is rich and requires your attention, but it rewards you with a powerful understanding of that struggle. It’s a beautiful, well-deserved Booker contender that truly sees the dreamer in all of us. ✨👌💪

Seascraper by Benjamin Wood - ⭐⭐⭐⭐ ½ This is an absolutely beautiful book about dreams, the limits of circumstance, chance, and responsibility. It begins with Thomas as a shanker — his grandfather's trade — earning a meagre living by using a horse-drawn cart to trawl for shrimp during each low water, set in the fictional coastal town of Longferry in northwest England. He lives with his mother, who had him after a relationship with a teacher who fled, signed up for the army, and was killed in the war. In the meantime he practises guitar in secret, nurses a crush on his friend's sister Joan, and quietly wishes for a different future as he goes about his days. Then a visiting American director named Edgar arrives, and all of a sudden a new horizon seems to be within reach. Wood's prose is absolutely stunning. I have never been to England nor lived in a seaside village, and reading this gave me that experience entirely. He pays great attention to the livelihood of a shanker — the physicality of the work, the cold, the graft, the smell of the sea — and renders it with the kind of care that makes the ordinary feel sacred. It is a quiet and simple book, the plot straightforward and easy to traipse along. It doesn't overstay its welcome. And after finishing it, I just closed my eyes and imagined the rising and falling of the tide.

4.5 stars "Seascraper is a mesmerising portrait of a young man hemmed in by his class and the ghosts of his family's past, dreaming of artistic fulfilment. It confirms Benjamin Wood as an exceptional talent in British literature." Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize Thomas is a seascraper who lives with his mother and has a humble, often repetitive existence. When a film director arrives in town, their friendship causes Thomas to dream for more for himself. The prose is beautiful, atmospheric, and calming. This waa such a peaceful book to read. I loved that the audiobook was Narrated by the author and includes him singing which was unique and enjoyable. It added to the overall enjoyment of the novel.

Beautiful and atmospheric, Seascraper feels like a love letter to the English language. Benjamin Wood’s quiet yet impactful prose captivated me from start to finish. Themes of longing, isolation, inheritance, and the pull between duty and desire are expressed with such delicacy and depth. There’s a meditative quality to the writing — restrained yet deeply evocative — that makes every line feel purposeful. An elegant, profoundly moving novel that invites you to slow down and savour every word.

Excellent little book. Thoughts to come.

Set in a small fishing village in Longferry, Northern England 21 yr old Thomas Flett has taken over his grandpa's trade as a shanker. Early every morning he spends on the drizzly shore scraping for shrimp, he spends the afternoons selling his catch and the evening's playing his guitar and pining for his neighbour Joan Wyeth. It wasn't until a mysterious man arrives in town and enlists Thomas's help in finding the perfect location for his next movie that Thomas believes his life is about to change. Edgar promises him a new life in Hollywood and suddenly he sees a different future for himself. Can Thomas trust this stranger that has quickly become a friend? A beautifully written atmospheric story!

This little book has all the good and bad parts of a dream and yet still managed to feel completely real. Really beautiful writing, the moody and atmospheric setting of Longferry is a melancholy postcard come to life. The story moves at a gentle pace not dissimilar to the rhythmic sway of Thomas’ horse and cart. Wasn’t quite 5 stars for me as I felt the Oedipus-esque thoughts were largely unnecessary and the frequency of ingrown toenail mentions made me grimace more than once.

This book delivers a thoughtful exploration of how language shapes and reinforces social perceptions of gender. It argues that English contains embedded structures that can subtly privilege certain perspectives, particularly those historically associated with male authority. The author’s approach is both analytical and accessible, making complex ideas understandable without diminishing their importance. The discussion is grounded in linguistic research while remaining relevant to everyday communication, which broadens its appeal significantly. The practical emphasis on changing communication habits adds an applied dimension that many readers will find useful. While some may wish for deeper theoretical expansion, the book succeeds in raising awareness and encouraging more intentional language use.

This is a bold and necessary contribution to conversations around language and equality. Vivian R. Probst presents a clear argument: language is not neutral, and its biases have real-world consequences. One of its greatest strengths lies in its practicality. Rather than remaining theoretical, it offers readers concrete tools particularly the six-word linguistic shift—to actively reshape communication. This makes it especially useful for professionals, leaders, and content creators seeking to use language more consciously. Concise yet impactful, this work encourages readers to reflect, adapt, and ultimately reclaim the power embedded in their words. A must-read for those committed to inclusive and equitable communication.

This is a well-structured and engaging examination of the ways in which language can reflect and perpetuate gender inequality. It highlights how seemingly ordinary linguistic choices may carry deeper implications for identity and authority. The book is particularly strong in its clarity and accessibility. It avoids overly technical language while still engaging with important concepts from feminist linguistics. This makes it suitable for a wide readership, including educators, professionals, and general readers interested in communication and social issues. The inclusion of a practical framework for inclusive language is a notable strength. Although the solution is simplified, it provides a useful entry point for readers seeking to improve awareness and communication practices.

Few books are willing to examine something as foundational as language. We often assume English is neutral, objective, universal. Probst asks us to reconsider that assumption. The most compelling aspect of this book is that it feels grounded in lived experience. Her background, from religious upbringing to missionary work to social research, informs her perspective in subtle but meaningful ways. This is not detached academic commentary. It is engaged analysis. The idea of transforming “he language” into “we language” is conceptually elegant. It reframes equality not as competition, but as shared inclusion. This book may challenge readers. It may provoke disagreement. But it undeniably stimulates thought. And that is the mark of a meaningful work.

Vivian Probst’s work is a thought-provoking and refreshingly direct contribution to conversations about language and gender. The author’s central thesis that bias exists not only in usage but in structure is presented with conviction and supported by a clear, consistent argument. The proposed six-word transformation is both memorable and easy to grasp, making the work highly accessible even to readers without a background in linguistics. Whether or not one fully embraces the proposed changes, the work succeeds in encouraging critical reflection on everyday language habits. It is particularly valuable for readers interested in sociolinguistics, gender studies, and cultural reform.

Vivian R. Probst provides a concise yet impactful exploration of gender bias within the English language. Rooted in feminist linguistic theory, the book effectively illustrates how male-default language structures perpetuate systemic inequality. The author’s strength lies in her ability to bridge theory and practice. Rather than remaining purely analytical, she offers a concrete linguistic intervention—her six-word framework—that encourages immediate application. This practical dimension distinguishes the work from many academic texts in the field. Overall, this is a valuable resource for both scholars and general readers interested in language reform and gender equity.

I found myself unexpectedly emotional while reading this. Not because the book is dramatic but because it highlights subtle erasures that many women have intuitively felt but rarely articulated. Language invisibility is difficult to describe. Probst gives it structure. She gives it vocabulary. That validation is powerful. The six-word solution may not solve every systemic issue, but it symbolizes agency. It suggests that change can begin at the level of everyday speech. This book feels like both research and reclamation. 8.Reading this felt like

For educators and facilitators, this book offers a valuable tool for introducing discussions around language and equality. Vivian R. Probst makes complex linguistic concepts accessible, allowing them to be easily integrated into classroom or workshop settings. The practical framework provided encourages active participation rather than passive learning. It empowers students and professionals alike to become more conscious communicators, making it especially useful in academic and training environments.

This work presents a bold argument about the inherent gender bias within English, supported by years of linguistic research. Vivian R. Probst carefully unpacks how language conventions can reinforce societal norms, particularly those that marginalize women. While some readers may find the proposed linguistic shift ambitious, it is undeniably thought-provoking. The strength of the work lies in its ability to spark reflection and dialogue. It invites readers not only to question language but to reconsider the structures behind it.

The author successfully integrates academic rigor with practical application, presenting a clear framework for addressing gender bias in language. The analysis challenges entrenched linguistic norms while remaining accessible to non-specialist readers. The proposed six-word model is particularly effective in providing a tangible takeaway, distinguishing this work from more purely theoretical texts. It is highly recommended for professionals interested in communication, leadership, and social equity.

This insightful work by Vivian R. Probst offers a compelling examination of how the English language subtly reinforces gender bias in everyday communication. Drawing on principles from feminist linguistics, the author presents well-researched arguments in a clear and accessible style. Particularly noteworthy is the introduction of a practical six-word shift designed to promote more inclusive language. While some ideas may invite debate, the book succeeds in raising awareness and encouraging readers to rethink how language shapes power, identity, and equality.

Vivian R. Probst challenges one of the most invisible yet influential systems of bias language itself. With clarity, precision, and purpose, she exposes how English has historically centered male perspectives and provides a groundbreaking yet practical path forward. This is not just a book; it is a call to rethink communication at its core. Insightful, empowering, and highly relevant, it stands as an important contribution to conversations on equality and representation.

This book offers a nuanced exploration of the relationship between language and power. The concept of “WEnglish for WEquality” is both innovative and grounded in established principles of feminist linguistics. While the central argument is persuasive, certain sections would benefit from greater concision, as key ideas are occasionally repeated. Nonetheless, the work remains a meaningful and relevant contribution to ongoing discussions about inclusive communication.

This work raises important and timely questions about the role of language in shaping gender dynamics. The central premise is engaging, and the author’s perspective is clearly articulated. However, some arguments would benefit from more extensive empirical support and a broader range of illustrative examples. While it serves as a strong introductory exploration, readers seeking deeper academic analysis may find it somewhat limited in scope.

A persuasive case is made that language is far more than a neutral medium—it is a system that shapes perception, reinforces norms, and influences power structures. This work invites readers to become more conscious of the subtle ways in which gender bias manifests in everyday speech. The writing is confident and engaging, supported by a clear sense of purpose. While some readers may find the premise challenging or unconventional, its strength lies in prompting reflection and dialogue.

This book taught me that language is far more powerful than we often realize. I learned that English is deeply masculine in structure and vocabulary, and that this bias quietly shapes how women are perceived and valued. Vivian Probst explains how the lack of independent words for women reinforces inequality, even when we don’t intend it.

One of the biggest lessons from this book is that inequality is often hidden in everyday language. I learned that English routinely centers men as the default, which subtly sidelines women. This realization completely changed how I listen to and use words.

“ My mouth was full and empty all at once.Empty because everything in it had no shape or sound or form. And full of everything that I left then and feel now. That what I want to return to I cannot return to because the place and I have changed and what I have built here might be feeble and meek, but it took everything I had…” In Hisham Matar’s novel, a walk across London is filled with thoughts of exile, displacements and relationships. The narrator, Khaled Abd al Hady, has accompanied his close friend Howsam Zoya to the start of a journey of relocation to America. Having bid Howsam farewell, Khaled walks home and ruminates on the circumstances that have caused him to spend his life in England. Khaled’s thoughts span more than thirty five years, stretching back to a time when he was a teenager in Libya. He was sitting in his home listening to the radio as the announcer read a politically allegorical story about power and resistance. The author was a heretofore unknown Howsam Zoya.The story’s message has resonated with the youngster and lingers into his days as a scholarship student at Edinburgh University. Once ensconced in university, Khalid becomes aware of the corrosive effects of Libya’s regime even when living abroad. Shadowy informers monitor the students’ conduct. An atmosphere of unseen oppression pervades the academic experience of this seemingly privileged group. Perhaps stifled by this environment, Khalid accepts the invitation of his friend Mustafa to travel to London and attend a demonstration at the Libyan embassy protesting the repressive Gaddafi regime. The demonstration, which was a historical event on April 17, 1984,triggers a series of life changing consequences for the two students as violence erupts at the proceedings. The two young men are injured and the resultant public exposure militates against either student returning to university or Libya.This meld of plot point and history sets the young men’s lives on a different trajectory and launches a thematic exploration of the difference between diasporic immigration and self inflicted exile.The two young men ultimately connect with the author Howsam Zoya, now living abroad.The relationship that develops between the three widens into an ongoing contemplation of the emotional toll of exile and constraints of bonds formed in the wake of loss and disconnection. Another blend of plot point and history takes place with the advent of the Arab Spring that resulted in Gaddafi’s death in 2011. These events presented the three men with a chance to reengage with the world and their country of origin.Each member of the triangular relationship has a different emotional response to this opportunity, stretching the parameters of their friendship in new directions. I particularly found this novel absorbing because of a friendship from my college days in the sixties. One of my close friend’s family had highly placed officials in a Middle Eastern country. I will never forget the terror that resulted from my friend discovering surveillance photos of him attending protest demonstrations.Covertly slipped under his door, the photos created a level of anxiety and paranoia that reverberated for years to come. Matar’s novel brought these memories back to me as his plot weaved the strands of exile and violence into a narrative that attempts to show how friendship might mitigate the grief arousing from exile.I was left to wonder how one can overcome rootlessness and define some sense of belonging in an increasingly fragmented and disrupted geopolitical world.

Ah yes, finally a Booker Banger. My Friends is the kind of novel I expect of a Booker longlistee. It’s excellent, thoughtful storytelling, its characterisation is deep, and its exploration of ideas is layered and complex. Initially I thought My Friends might just be a story about friendship set against a political backdrop, but quickly it proved to be much more. Its consideration of the relationship between people and place, and the concept of home is really thoughtfully executed. Where I think this novel really excels though, is in its unpacking of how we seek to mediate a world that can be cruel or inhospitable, and leave us feeling isolated or at sea. Here, Matar has a lot to say about how literature is a way that we can come to terms, and understanding of our world, that it too is a friendship. As a reader, this thread of the novel was particularly resonant.

Set in the days leading up to and immediately following the Arab Spring, 'My Friends' is focused on friendship and one's sense of place in the world. I loved Matar's 'The Return'. His writing always strikes me as nostalgic and pure. There is a sense of loneliness in his writing that expands throughout this novel. Khaled is a frustrating character. He wants more out of his relationships but lacks the decisiveness to act on those feelings. His aloofness with his relationships seems intentional on the part of the author. My interpretation is that Khaled, Hosam and Mustafa have been set adrift in the world through their exile. Two of them have the strength to regain their ties to the world. The third seems content to drift. A wonderful book. I hope it does well during book award season. It would be nice to get this in the hands of more readers. High four stars.

This novel is a truly thought-provoking and deeply personal exploration of war and its far-reaching consequences. It beautifully delves into profound themes like emigration and the unwavering connection people feel to their own country, no matter how far they roam. Hisham Matar skillfully intertwines the lives of three Libyan exiles—Khaled, Mustafa, and Hosam. Their stories, already rich with years of displacement, become even more poignant and complex with the tumultuous dawn of the Arab Spring. Matar possesses a remarkable gift for forging a genuine connection with the reader; I found myself completely drawn in, unable to put this wonderfully crafted book down. Beyond its compelling narrative, this novel sparked my interest in the current situation in Libya, a region I feel is too often overlooked in international news.

Revisiting this, which I initially listened to, this time in the physical copy. The prose is gorgeous from the first sentence, to me. I think I’ll reread the whole thing. —————————————————————————————— Beautifully done. Such an emotionally present, distinct narrative voice. Like always I struggled with putting the timeline together as the narrator perused different memories outside of their chronology. I think my struggle to follow broken timelines must be an ADHD thing in the same way my inability to master card games is (too many rules 😝).

This is a story about friends in exile from their home country. It is based on the real events of a 1984 demonstration in London that turned deadly and the Arab Spring uprisings in 2011. It all starts with a protest outside the Libyan embassy in London. A large group of students gathered to voice their disapproval of Muammar Gaddafi's murderous regime in Libya. Out of nowhere, shots were fired from the embassy's windows into the crowd. Yvonne Fletcher, a Metropolitan Police officer, was killed and several others were injured. Our protagonist, Khaled, was among those who were injured. He spent several weeks recuperating in a hospital from a gun shot wound that pierced his lung. This book follows Khaled's life in London after the shooting. He can't return to his homeland because of his disapproval of Gaddafi's regime. This book is primarily about Khaled's friendships and how they help him deal with his inability to return home. Khaled leads a very lonely existence but his friends are always there to help him navigate his life in London. His friends also share his sentiments towards the dictatorship in Libya and that definitely helps Khaled cope with his ordeal. We follow Khaled's life from 1984 until 2011. Because of the novel's large scope, there are some issues with pacing but it's barely noticeable. Hisham Matar is a talented author and he effectively presents this story to his reader. The prose is beautiful and poignant. You really feel sorry for Khaled and the situation he finds himself in. I would recommend this book to the fans of literary fiction and historical fiction. You will learn a lot about Gaddafi's reign in Libya and the events of Arab Spring in 2011. If you enjoy character-driven stories, you will likely find My Friends interesting and satisfactory. This novel examines the importance of friendships and the meaning of identity. Overall, I was pleased with what this novel accomplished. It left me with a plethora of information about Libyan history without being dry or boring. This book is an excellent character study which delves deep into the themes of guilt, loyalty and family relationships. I enjoyed this novel and I will be looking forward to seeing what Hisham Matar writes next.

This wasn't what I was expecting. It's not so much about the Arab Spring as it is about friendship, and exile, and the toll that it takes on a life to feel disconnected from one's home. The writing is really beautiful, sometimes quite insightful, and the book is meditative and interior and quite slow - it felt like someone's very real life in the way it meandered, not a constructed plot. I learnt a lot about Libya and the lengths the Gaddafi regime would go to to maintain control (I'd never heard of the 1984 protest at the Libyan embassy in London, where embassy staff opened fire on the protestors), and I resonated with many of the feelings explored in this, but for some reason I never felt truly swept away by it. Perhaps it was just a little too slow and interior for my mood right now, because I can't really fault the writing.

between a four and a five!! incredible writing, what themes! what commentary!, maybe at times a skosh light on hard plot elements in favor of conversations? but i did really enjoy this

Reading this novel made me think about how, in our culture, we often glorify family while overlooking friendship, even though Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) carried out his most important mission alongside a friend rather than a family member. Still, we tend to act as if family is permanent and friends are temporary. Hisham Matar’s novel follows an eighteen-year-old Libyan stranded in London, where friends become his chosen family. As a Libyan who values friendship and loves London, this resonated deeply with me. When I lived alone there, friends showed up for me in many ways that made me feel grateful, an Iraqi friend commuting an hour with a home-cooked meal on a hard day, a Brazilian friend coming over just to cook and laugh, and Libyan, Pakistani, Indian, and British friends who always had my back. When you are far from home, friends are often the answer, and the novel touched on that beautifully. HOWEVER, the novel’s treatment of Libyan women is striking in its absence. The protagonist forms friendships with Palestinian and Lebanese women, and with European women, but Libyan women appear only as mothers and sisters, never as companions, comrades, or political actors. Even in scenes of protest and opposition, Libyan women are erased. Whether this reflects the 1980s or the author’s own narrative choices, the situation is painful either way. Another moment that felt unnecessary was the negative reference to the Iranian embassy. It appeared out of context and, to me, read as an attempt to align with Western foreign policy narratives rather than serving the novel itself. Setting these two points aside, the novel is well worth recommending. I thoroughly enjoyed it, and its writing is beautiful.

Beautiful prose, the kind that sucks you in and you love being immersed. So beautiful that I was upset at the beginning that it didn't make the Booker short list. But I think I get it, there is something underwhelming about the story itself.

Maaza Mengiste’s review describes this book so aptly: If there is a language of exile, My Friends is what it sounds like. Set largely in London, My Friends begins with Khaled wandering through the streets of the city after bidding farewell to his friend Hosam Zowa, who is off to Paris. On this walk, Khaled drifts back to his past; from the days he first heard of Hosam Zowa, to his attempts to remain uninvolved in politics while studying in Edinburgh, to the innocent misstep that condemned him to a life of involuntary exile in London, and finally to his solitary life as an exile in the city. “I walked off feeling an emptiness well up inside me. It seemed, for all the emptiness that it was, a presence. It made me want to run away, dive deeper into myself, into that cold desolation, to the very bottom of it, out of whatever it is that attracts us to pain, which tempts us, when we know that a complaining tooth should be left alone, to bite on it.” My Friends triumphs at both the personal and political. Hisham Matar, a Libyan American and the son of an exile himself, creates a novel that is as much about the broader political context of the Libyan civil war and the revolution during Muammar Gaddafi’s reign as it is about the deeply personal and intimate experience of an exile. Significant political events such as Mustafa Ramadan's killing, the capture of Muammar Gadafi, the campaign of The Killing of the Word, Libyan civil war and resistance along with the characters' views and roles during such event are seamlessly integrated with the more mundane and "aimless" aspect of exile life. Together with the political dimension, Hisham Matar delicately traces the everyday moments that define the exile experience: the crushing loneliness; the desperate search for connection; and the disorientating reality of waking up on a new, strange earth. Hisham Matar’s writing is another highlight of the book. The main character’s acute sense of emptiness and loneliness were deeply conveyed throughout the pages it almost feel like a looming, distinct presence that accompanies him wherever he goes. There were times when I almost wanted to look away, so as not to intrude on Khaled's most private moments with himself. To wrap this up, I must echo Maaza Mengiste’s words once more: Hisham Matar is one of our finest writers, and we are very lucky to have him among us. Thank you Times Reads for the review copy. I really appreciate it. 4.5/5

I don’t know if you have ever stood in the middle of a squash court — on the T — and listened to what is going on next door. What I’m thinking of is the sound from the next court of a ball hit clean and hard. It’s a quick, low pistol-shot of a sound, with a close echo. The echo, which is the ball striking the wall of the court, is louder than the shot itself. This is what I hear when I remember the year after our mother died, and our father had us practising at Western Lane two, three, four hours a day. Western Lane is a short domestic drama, a coming-of-age story, about surviving grief and making connections through one’s actions when words are no longer up to the task. Author Chetna Maroo writes in short, unadorned sentences that nonetheless capture something true about the experience of loss, and despite its brevity, I felt a real emotional punch with this. I liked the details from the family’s Indian-British (Jain) culture, I liked the particular POV of our eleven-year-old protagonist — who is feeling uniquely responsible for getting her father through his own grief at the same time she’s experiencing her first crush — and I even liked the bits on the squash courts that lead to an exciting tournament sequence. There is a lot packed in here, and while I would give it 3.5 stars if I could, I’ll round up to four (mostly to rank this higher than some of the other titles on the Booker longlist. Do I expect it to be shortlisted? Maybe not?) Much later, Khush would say that that night was really the start of it, of Pa’s thinking about what he would do with us. It wasn’t Aunt Ranjan. It was Uncle Pavan talking about the past. But I think Pa told us himself what moved him. He sat beside us one morning on the bench outside the squash court and said, “I want you to become interested in something you can do your whole life.” After a warning from his sister-in-law that his three daughters are at risk of “going wild” after the loss of their mother, “Pa” decides to focus on the girls’ squash skills at the local rec centre, Western Lane. As they run drills and “ghost” skills, Gopi (the youngest sister at eleven) emerges as the greatest talent; and when she starts training with thirteen-year-old Ged — the son of a white woman who works at the facility and whose attention from the girls’ father becomes concerning to their community — their friendship will start to fill in some of Gopi’s empty spaces. The relationship between the sisters is lovely — they are all good kids working to get their family through their tragedy — but even as Gopi continues to improve and attracts the attention of someone who thinks she should enter a local tournament, their father seems to be slipping further away from them: After one of these silences, we heard Pa asking Ged’s mother if she didn’t feel, sometimes, that there was too much time. He asked her if things terrorised her, like hours, or the expressions on a child’s face, or the clattering of lids on pans. Maybe she moved in some way that told Pa she understood. He was quiet, and then he said: “The children. The girls. Sometimes I look at them and think they will eat me.” Perhaps predictably so, Gopi puts a lot of pressure on herself to save her father through her performance at the tournament — this, after sacrificing herself in other ways — but there is something interesting about the way that Maroo uses sport as a metaphor for the disassociation of grief (Gopi sees herself moving through grief while still inside the grief; sees herself moving through game play while still in the game; marvels at seeing the Milky Way on the horizon while acknowledging her place in it), and it all worked for me. In different circumstances I might round this down to three stars, but there’s something to this and I’m glad I read it.

Read this after the announcement of the Booker Prize 2023 Longlist that just came out yesterday, and this was my first pick and it was one that I finished in one seating. “You can think it out, but in the end you don’t know what is going to happen until you go through it.” A story that focuses on grief of a family as a whole and how they had made it through and channeled their grief with sports - specifically squash - and its a novella that highlights sisterhood as a whole and how they came together during the death of their mother. Paired with a straightforward prose, is a story of the different mechanisms for grief , family and squash . I find that this book was easy to read; but one that interlaced with a lot more than just the mechanics of squash. Firstly, writing-wise , its one of the books that has a beautiful prose but its one that is not hard to read. The story has its own flair to it that makes the story seemed alive in its own way. I love how it creates a story of a family that is grappling with loss and how each of them had grieved in their own ways. Its interesting to read how the sport was interlaced with the family mechanics in here; and the fact that its written from the POV of a 13 year old makes the story seemed more raw and heartbreaking. I was not that much a fan of squash, but I feel that the author had made the sport in here somewhat parallel to the feelings of our main protagonist. Its how the sport had become a bridge to save the link between her father and their children, and what kept the family somewhat at bay with the loss of their mother. I fell into a deep-hole of squash techniques and seeing the sport through the lens of the characters makes it almost poetic in its own way. There is a subtlety in Maroo's writing that makes the story; albeit short, one that touches hearts in ways that you didn't expect it would. Its a voice of a teen trying to find a place in the world where she is still trying to grasp girlhood through the help of her sisters (who are not that much of an adult themselves). A story that took me by surprise. Definitely one that I liked seeing it in the list of the booker prize and discovering a new author and story.

BOOKER PRIZE 2023 LONGLIST WESTERN LANE by Chetna Maroo **** One of the surprising books to make the longlist this year, WESTERN LANE is Chetna Maroo’s debut novel, a quiet work dealing with themes of grief, family, and competitive squash. Although dealing with a subject I have had little interest in, Maroo manages to tell a story with significant emotional punch despite doing so with very understated prose. Gopi is the youngest of three daughters dealing with the death of their mother and a father unsure how to grieve his wife’s death and continue parenting the children. Pa encourages the girls to play squash and Gopi quickly becomes the prodigy, showing amazing talent that Pa wants to foster. Despite moments of respite from his grief, Pa remains uncertain how work and live his life. His emotional turmoil is evident to the very self-aware children, themselves processing the dramatic changes in their life. Gopi must decide how she can help Pa and whether continuing her journey in squash is the best way to do so. I found the early stages of this novel a bit plain, competently written but not especially unique. However, as the story progresses Maroo shows her skill as a writer, especially in describing the dramatic squash matches. I love writing that turn the mechanics of athletics into poetry and that is fully on display here. The ending was pitch perfect, subtly moving. I doubt this will make the shortlist but happy to have read it.

An absolutely beautiful book that follows a family of three sisters and their father after their mother passes away. Squash becomes something for them to bond over, an activity to focus on to distract them from their grief. It is a very quiet novel, but I thought the writing was incredible. I love how fleshed out the relationships were - Pa and his daughters, the sisters, Ged and Gopi, Gopi and squash. My favourite parts were the description of squash; the practices, the match play, and the analysis of old matches. I love sports as a microcosm and thought this book did an excellent job of using squash to move the story forward. I thought it was an interesting introspective of grief and how someone fits into their family and how that evolves over time.

“We were shy and afraid because there was all this feeling between us and we didn't know who we were.”

4 Stars - A quiet and subtle depiction of grief. How you put your soul into something to distract from the heartache. I loved the portrayal of grief the way all of the members of family suppressed their feelings in order to bear their responsibilities towards others. Woven through all of it is a story of an 11-year old Gopi who is growing up and experiencing adolescence. I loved how quiet this book felt yet there was so much happening in it. Very nuanced and skillfully characterized. A solid delivery for a debut piece of work.

what a tender book :(

Booker 1 of 13 in the books: 7/10. quiet but very powerful debut novella about a girl on the cusp of adolescence dealing with the loss of her mother and the expectations of her immigrant community. Demerits for too much squash (really not followable by non players). But very evocative and well written.

Sometimes you don't know how much a book will impact you until a while after you finish it. I wonder if this will be one of those books. I read this in basically 2 sittings, it isn't long so it's not a flex 😂 but it is so easy to and almost unputdownable. I liked the tone it was written in and the way it was written. The characters and the ambiguous description of life and grief and relationships was intruiging and moving. And I found the squash games intense. It might be because I read this hungover in the middle of the night but a couple chapters I read through tears. For such a short book it really just had a much bigger impact than I imagined. Especially as it was more literary than I'm used to. Goes to show it's nice to read different things sometimes.

Chinese experimental author Can Xue is like the Lady Gaga of modern Chinese literature. - Harvard Review Can Xue is an avant-garde writer who is mentioned sometimes as a candidate for the Nobel Prize for Literature. Her stories are described as surreal, nonrational, dream-like; or on the other hand, incoherent, bizarre, impossible to make sense of. Most of her work has not been translated into English but I Live in the Slums, a novella and a collection of short stories, has just been named to the International Booker Prize longlist. (Can Xue also has a delightful self-puffery streak; a fun game of "Who Said It: Zlatan Ibrahimovic or Can Xue?" could be had. "I can't help but laugh at how perfect I am." - Zlatan. "Can Xue's works are truly exceptional, these kinds of fictions have already surpassed the profundity of philosophy." - Can Xue.) She has said that both she and her readers are involved in the creation of meaning and interpretation of her works. Readers should work (hard, mind you, she doesn't like to be disappointed by us) to actively create meaning and perform the creative process while reading. With all this in mind, I curiously opened this volume and read the novella that begins the book, titled "Story of the Slums." This novella features a rat ("I'm not a rat" - Rat) existing on the margins of a deprived community, shuttling from house to house, abused and victimized by violence, with all manner of bizarre settings and actions described with no rational cause and effect. Strange, but not lacking in the ability to have themes and meaning taken from it. What lines I jotted down from the story: *)What in the world happened? I didn't know. Really didn't know. Everything was baffling. *)I couldn't say I understood her. I didn't. I seemed to understand every word of that dialect, but when I put them together, I had no idea what she was saying." *)My tangled relationship with people was probably the main reason I continued staying in the slums. *)"Will the little thing die?" "No way. It's a born survivor." *)People were so fickle! I thought, we probably aren't the same. *)The slums were my home, and also the hardest place for me to understand. Generally speaking, I didn't make a deliberate effort to understand it. Destiny drove me from one place to another. *)I endured, I endured. The themes I get from it are of existing apart, existing as an outsider who doesn't fit in or understand people and things around them, indeed is often baffled by what goes on. Existing as someone who is commonly treated badly. Yet, being a survivor, a tough thing that strives and survives. These themes seem to me to continue being present in the stories that continue the book. In "Our Human Neighbors" a magpie couple are set apart (and above) the rest of their flock, and as all the other birds disappear to a seeming grim end, they alone survive. "It's impossible to understand what's going on in people's minds, isn't it?" asks our narrator's wife. "How dare you doubt your own species?" thunders our narrator's father. "When I tried to get close to them, they looked as if they were saying there was no need for me to exist in this world," says our narrator. And it continues. In "The Swamp", whose narrator tries to find a geographic location hidden from him, he's told "What you mean is certainly not what I mean! God, why have I kept talking with you all along? How could you ever understand me? Impossible!" In "The Other Side of the Partition" the story's narrator is excited to jump into the darkness on the other side of a dividing line from all her family and community, despite being caused considerable physical pain the first time, she survives it and goes right back. In "Shadow People", our narrator is the only being who consists of more than a mere shadow, "I couldn't touch him, either... I belonged to the shadow people, and yet I was different from the others." He is told, "You'd better lie on your stomach on the floor and not move. Then no one can see you. If they can't see you, they won't be annoyed." Despite being set apart and often abused, these outsider characters actually seem to have something that makes them superior to their supposed peers. In "Our Human Neighbors", our magpies have made the best and most cleverly formed nest, by far. In "Shadow People" our narrator decides that, "He had spoken that way because he envied me. I - a shadow with a tail." In "Crow Mountain", it's the narrator's friend who is different, and "The path she'd taken had everything - flowers, birds, cherries, chestnuts. I, on the other hand, was surrounded by darkness." "I Am A Willow Tree" I interpreted as a description of what it can feel like to be an intellectual - like, say, Can Xue. A willow tree is planted into a garden with many other kinds of plants but does not receive the same nourishment and needs-meeting from the gardener. When rain falls, it does not get the same enjoyment, and from the shallow soil it cannot draw the same sustenance. The other plants all sing the gardener's praises, but not the willow tree, and in turn the gardener always seems to be keeping a suspicious eye on the willow, and at one point chops off part of a root and fills in the hole with dirt. The gardener can be seen here as the government, the other plants in the garden the masses, the willow is the intellectual - set apart from the masses, different, tolerated by the government but sometimes the recipient of its violence (the chopping away of a root and filling in its space with dirt being particularly ominous). "I had no way out. My way out lay in thinking of a way out. It lay in 'thinking' itself," muses the willow, while its roots reach far down and contact some unknown region, stimulating its growth. It sometimes wonders if it can survive in this garden, but as is the book's general theme, it endures and lives. "Her Old Home" is an examination of looking backwards at history. A woman left her old home very sick, and recovered health in her new environment. Twenty years later she is invited back by her home's new owner, who has recreated the home's interior exactly, and who even looks like her in pictures at places the woman remembers from her past. She doesn't remember the details of this place perfectly, but there is a warm comfort there and it tries to really draw her in and keep her there. "You don't need to fully understand us. All you need is to feel our love, that's enough," says a memory/person, in a most warm and inviting manner. But beware the dangers of sentimentality, though it may feel good. She was not healthy here, looking backwards toward an idealized history is dangerous and self-deceiving, and in the end she vows to not indulge it anymore. All in all these are very interesting stories, though I feel it would be best to read them spaced further apart in time. Do not gorge on Can Xue, the brain is not a natural at reading stories like these where rationality and logical patterns are frequently absent, and it can become tiring. Each story given space and time with the reader, however, intrigues.

I actually made a coherent review for this book as a staff pick but my longer thoughts on this are that there is something so frenetic about the way that Can Xue writes that is disorienting but in a good way. Perhaps it has more to do with my love affair with cities and the deep, deep relationship cities have with postmodern art forms (Although Can Xue apparently rejects postmodernity, but I digress--), but the stories were fun to read and definitely left me sitting down for awhile trying to figure shit out (This was a futile endeavour as Can Xue's work doesn't leave much room for figuring anything out). The slum she writes about is not a definite place, and the entirety of the area remains largely unnamed. Despite the anonymity, however, she creates a world that is tangible while still seeming to exist somewhere in between the fantastic and the physical. The stories are told by a large array of narrators both human and nonhuman as they coexist together, trying to figure out what it means to relate to one another. This isn't a pretty picture though, it is the slum after all, and the existentialist questions (and dread, I suppose) is compounded by graphic descriptions of violence and body horror as well the struggles of hardship and poverty. Time is also unreliable here, where the buildings and its inhabitants exist in the tension between modernity and tradition. I say this with a caveat, however, my observation of the lack of a definitive time may be more of an affect of Western writing rather than Asian. I cannot speak for Chinese writing in particular as I'm not terribly fluent in the literature, but the themes of slums -- and entire lives, by extension -- being upended to make way for wealthier real estate is something Io'm more familiar with. This is explicitly captured in "Catfish Pit." What I'm saying is...while the stories may not be tied to a specific time, I think trying to situate it in that fashion is futile. It's not hard to say that there are many contradictions in this book. There is tenderness and love in the muck. The gore and general grossness becomes almost bucolic. The only thing that one can grasp onto is her nebulous world. It's a dizzying yet exciting read that is testament to Can Xue's experimental style and her love of binaries and opposing forces.

First shot of contemporary Chinese fiction and boy does it feel alien, but an alien that has a humanoid shape and feels oddly familiar. Don't expect conventional plots, characters or an order of things as you're not going to get them. What you ll get instead Is a collection of short stories that lean more towards poetry and philosophy (a blend of western existentialism and a Chinese philosophy that I'm soo unfamiliar with.) But if you ever feel like a nasty rat living in a dump who cannot help questioning its existence or the existence of things overall besides being extremely busy struggling to survive all the mess around them: the first short story (also possibly the longest one, also the best one) a go. And if you want to roleplay- read it as I did while travelling by an extremely dirty train that I have to take on a daily basis 🙃. It really adds to the experience. (Or idk, don't clean your house for 2 months for authenticity).

Can Xue has excellent ominous moody short fiction. I felt I did a disservice to a few of these by reading them in the summer with my office lights on and they would be much better enjoyed someplace a little dimmer and gloomier. But still several others the mood still broke through and managed to really dig its roots in. At first I thought this collection would be entirely told from non-human POVs since the collection starts out with several just like that: the first story seems to be told by a dog-like creature (it's called Rat and Snake among other things but treated like a stray dog), the second one was told by a magpie, and the third is about an old cicada (tho not told from its strict POV) but then we go back to largely human-centric POVs although with a great one about Shadow People and another told from the perspective of a tree.

Contrary to her previous book I read, this was far more accessible. Sure, there were some weird ones, but there were several conventional stories as well, and I liked them!

weird but enticing in some strange way

not my favorite of her work but i can't tell if that's because because the animals weren't quite gross enough for my taste, if that makes sense. lots of suspicious soups in this one, though.

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2023 German: Wartelöhner In his debut novel, Ivorian writer Gauz offers serious social criticism by connecting migration, capitalism and exploitation, but he also effectively highlights how pathetic Western over-consumption is, and it's hilarious. Our three main characters are undocumented immigrants from Côte d’Ivoire who work as security guards in a shopping mall. Structured in three time periods spanning from 1960 until the early 2000's, we hear the three interconnected stories of Ferdinand, Ossiri and and Kassoum who want to live the European dream in the country that colonized their home. After historically being othered and described from a racist standpoint by the French, the three Ivorians now become quasi ethnologists as guards studying rich people indulging in mindless shopping in Paris (we're not talking groceries, of course, but clothes and Sephora). Gauz (Armand Patrick Gbaka-Brédé) studied biochemistry, and then moved to Paris as an undocumented student, where, you guessed it!, he worked as a security guard before returning to Côte d’Ivoire to be a journalist and writer. The title refers to the fact that jobs that require workers to stand up for hours are usually poorly paid, so employees in these lines of work are both physically strained and at the margins of rich societies. The novel shows how the migration experience has changed by giving historical and political context: In what Gauz calls the Bronze Age (1960-1980), Ferdinand travels to Paris to find himself, but he also leaves behind the first president of Côte d'Ivoire, Félix Houphouët-Boigny, who became a threat to progressive Ivorians due to his "coup-d'étalgia". The world lived through the OPEC crisis, which led Valéry Giscard d'Estaing to change French policies regarding economic immigration - with severe consequences for Ferdinand and his friends in the student housing complex. In the Golden Age (1990-2000), teacher Ossiri joins Ferdinand in Paris, and during the Age of Lead (after 9/11), all three men navigate a new climate in Europe. The story is interspersed with numerous vignettes, consisting of bizarre observations in the shopping mall. The text was translated by last year's chair of judges, the wonderful, award-winning Frank Wynne, with whom I spoke here. I would gladly see the team Gauz/Wynne win the International Booker - granted, this wouldn't be the strongest Booker winner ever, but this writer has a very particular approach to write about colonialism, racism, and classism, and Wynne is just a fantastic translator who managed to do justice to Gauz' disparate, eccentric style.

After getting used to the fragmentary nature of the narrative, I really began to enjoy this book, though I can understand why some people wouldn't. It's poetic, dry (sometimes to a fault), and includes a smorgasbord of characters in a way instantly recognisable to anyone who has worked in a customer service position. Would recommend!

you know what? this wasn't that bad. i came into this book thinking that it was going to be the worst because everyone was saying so but it was alright. i felt like the parts where we got random snippets of what a security guard was thinking was sort of unnecessary. but the bits where we got to know the three different security guards were really onto something. if we got a little more of that, then this would have been quite a good read. you can check out all my thoughts about this book & the other international booker shortlisted books here: https://youtu.be/RJcYZ6Chcsw

While it may feel light & easy to read, it's really anything but. There's bite underneath (as there should be). Bravo!

This was a unique read. Gauz observes modern consumerism through the eyes of three Black security guards. A satirical, witty, and most of all poignant book with serious social criticism on topics such as capitalism, exploitation, migration and colonization. “In Paris, elevated levels of melanin are correlated to a particular predisposition towards the security professions.” In the Ivorian community in France, security is a profession deeply rooted that it has spawned its own specific terminology. “Standing heavy” entails all the various professions that require the employee the remain standing. Standing is the trait / fate of the security guard. This book aggregates three interconnected life stories from two generations of undocumented immigrants from Côte d’Ivoire - Ferdinand, Ossiri, and Kassoum who work in France as security guards (zagoli). Certain pages are dedicated to (sometimes politically incorrect) observations from them, judging and labeling the wide range of customers – the rich offspring of their colonizers – being brainless consumers in their work environment.

This is why I love books. An insight into the minds and lives of undocumented migrant security guards in Paris over a 50 year period. Now I feel a little more knowledgeable. Excellent writing too.

Compelling but too short to satiate

Moody compelling character study from Sweden. Works for me! I'm not sure how to adequately review The Details. I stumbled upon it on netgalley and was intrigued by the synopsis of this tiny book. Figured if I didn't like it, well, at least it was short. But I ended up liking it a lot. In this story, a woman gets malaria, and the subsequent fever takes her mind back to four people who have played major roles over the course of her life-- literally with Johanna, for whom she claims "She was my main character." The narrator draws each character vividly, making me feel drawn into their intimate world. Johanna, Niki, Alejandro, and her mother, Birgitte, felt real, fleshed out and alive. Through each, the narrator captures something of herself, revealing her own life through her connection to others, as well as exploring themes of love, friendship and mental illness. The synopsis asks Who is the real subject of a portrait, the person being painted or the one holding the brush? And it is the key question here. Because while this book paints a portrait of four different people, the real story being told is that of the narrator. It illuminates the fact that any one person's story is merely an amalgamation of the people who've shaped their lives.

An open sky between every word The details opens with the narrator, who lies in bed with a fever, opening a novel in which she discovers a dedication of a former lover on the flyleaf. Paul Auster’s The New York Trilogy features as the Proustian madeleine, the open sesame that sends the narrator back in time, sparking memories of four people that marked her life. Having picked this up because I was intrigued by the pieces of photographs that swirl around the covers of both the English and Dutch translations, it is striking how well those covers reflect the non-linear structure of these slices of life in which the narrator from her sickbed reflects on four relationships that have been so hugely significant in her past. In four chapters, titled along the names of the four people, the narrator sketches four impressionistic portraits of them, not only giving a glimpse of their relationship with the narrator but also subtly, obliquely, revealing more about the narrator herself. Relationships end, break down, or people simply vanish in a Modiano fashion from her life, culminating in a moving coda which is an ode to the only one who’s presence was not one of the narrator’s choice and for that even more significant. Unlike the common thought that loss implies losing a part of oneself, Genberg on the contrary sheds a light on the lasting imprint others make on the self and points out how crucial real openness is for true connection: I let myself be impregnated by her way of speaking and being. I let her change me forever. That’s all there is to the self, or the so-called ‘self’: traces of the people we rub up against. I loved Johanna’s words and gestures and let them become part of me, intentionally or not. I suppose that is at the core of every relationship, and the reason that in some sense no relationship ever ends. Somehow that melancholic thought of the continuity of the traces others leave in our lives is soothing and helpful to look at loss and transience differently, loved ones who disappear from our lives not taking away a piece of ourselves with them nor diminishing our being, rather changing and enriching our existence in a myriad different ways. Perhaps it is a shared sense of generation, of an existence from and for books, or the moments in which the precariousness of life hits, the experience of loss that render some of the narrator’s observations on her life around the turn of the millennium, the sky-high expectations of youth, the careless exaltation of party life, which reminded me uncannily of those bygone times – perhaps because they go together inevitably with the relatable, likewise experiences of the friends and loves lost. I used to think that a sharper sense of being alive was to be found in the forest, that I would find it while sitting alone on a tree stump with the sun in my eyes, or while gazing out on the sea from some rocks on the shore; that I could only be fully awake among the silent elements. But it turned out that I already had everything right here, in the details around me, that it’s simply a question of being attentive in looking at all of it, of letting myself go and directing my attention outward, and I mean truly outward.That’s where this sharper sense of being alive is found, in the alert gaze on another. Genberg’s gentle invitation to transcend sterile navel-gazing and turn outwards to connect with others, regardless of the inescapable feelings of pain and loss such brings, touched a chord. The flavour and the depth of her contemplative, crystalline prose makes her brief and thoughtful novel a burst of apricity, the winter sun warming the face and the mind. (Photographs by Julia Hetta)

This was an absolutely lovely novel that proved to me once more that some writers can create a stone soup of a novel out of nothing at all, and to read it will be life-changing. It reminded me (not for its subject, but for its -subjectivity-) of reading Ti Amo by Hanne Ørstavik, Checkout 19 by Claire-Louise Bennett, In Memory of Memory by Maria Stepanova. These are very different books in terms of their focus but similar in the way the work through the accumulation of detail and exquisite observation and are part of a tradition that I suppose people who had read Proust (and maybe some who haven't ) would call "Proustian."

Now Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2024 While I do think that Genberg gets a heightened amount of love because large parts of the Booker list are sheer nonsense, this prize-winning Swedish entry is in fact pretty good. Our bisexual protagonist and narrator is sick with some virus (the novel was written during COVID) and picks up a book, in which she finds an inscription by her former lover Johanna. Extrapolating from that, we enter a fever dream of memory, in which we meet four people that were decisive for the development of the protagonist's character. There are several striking features worth mentioning: For instance, the narrator is a mother, but the book very much focuses on what she is apart from that - so it works against the current trend of motherhood-centered novels, showing a multi-faceted woman in different roles that she does inhabit or has inhabited, as lover to a man and a woman, as a friend, as a daughter. Then, a lot of what we learn about the narrator is through reflection, through how she is mirrored in the four important people in her life, and what decisions she makes regarding the respective relationships. It's a smart construction, especially as the last of the four chapters is dedicated to her mother, which means that this last puzzle piece encourages readers to re-evaluate everything that has been presented before through a new lens. As the novel's title suggests, Genberg has set out to illustrate how the details in our life shape us and our relationships, how little bits and pieces gain significance when it comes to becoming who we are. Sure, that's not the most innovative thesis for a novel ever conceived, but the hallucinatory writing is ever-shifting and the characters are all rather intriguing and rendered with great care and depth, so that this held-back, contemplative novel comes together seamlessly. The book also refers to numerous other works of literature, from Paul Auster to Tomas Tranströmer, which you know, is always a hit with extra-literary judging panels (and snobby readers like me! :-)). Good stuff, not a Booker winner though. (Me saying that heightens the novels chances via karma, I guess! :-))

In a world as replete as it is sparse, how exquisite is it that we stumble across one another? What brings us together is up for debate, whether dumb luck or a stroke of fate, but enmeshed and encumbered, all we remain is the kaleidoscope of everyone and everything that has caressed us with its transient presence. Indeed, “we live so many lives within our lives,” and there is no true face, no true self, just one entirety that holds within itself an ensemble of fragments we accrue as we ebb and flow through existence. Every detail embraced firmly within our confines, to the point wherein our sense of self becomes enshrouded by these places, the people, these things. To the point wherein the narrator needn’t tell us their name, because does it even matter? They’re a speck of particle so rich and vibrantly fabricated by the experiences they’ve shared with these people, those moments as alive within them as their own spirit. So we experience the life of a woman as she recounts her days spent with the individuals who’ve shaped her. Of the stories that have shaped her. We’re made privy to an abandon of a self that was already borrowed. Within relationships, within friendships, career, aspirations, within self. But within this abandon, there’s a life that is worn and lived and that’s often more than one could ask for. . In other news, I accidentally found myself reading this in tandem to 10 Minutes 38 Seconds In This Strange World by Elif Shafak which is like its more forlorn, tragic sister. How strange; looking for a reprieve often brings us to the same streets.

Now longlisted for the International Booker Prize - very much deserved! 4,5 – a beautiful, slim Swedish novel, in which a woman recounts her life through portraits of others: a friend, a lover, a roommate, a mother – each of these 4 portrayed in their own section that together make up the 4 chapters of the book. But the real protagonist is the narrator. What matters are not the chronological, sweeping facts but the details, the interactions, not the ´when´ but the ´who´. It is in fact the details, the acute observations, that make the text so lively, and the novel so good. There is not much plot, but it is about how people are and why they were meaningful – even if the encounters were fleeting and they may have disappeared from the narrator´s life. This became better and better and I was sad when it finished - very highly recommended. It won the most important Swedish literature prize in 2022 and it would certainly get a place on my International Booker longlist.

When a woman returns from a trip to the Serengeti and contracts malaria, she recalls key episodes in her life in feverish dreams. The episodes are concentrated around four people who played significant roles in her life. "The details" she remembers comprise some of the best character descriptions I've ever read. When a chapter was finished, I felt like I had known these people myself.

3.5 - 4 This is a short, well-written and translated novel. The main narrator, a woman recovering from illness, looks back at some of her previous relationships, a female lover, a friend, a male lover and lastly, the narrator's mother. Via those relationships, we assemble a picture of the narrator - a chameleon of sorts, coming across as a passive person, who took her queues from those around her. This is the kind of introspective, quiet novel that will be interpreted differently by each reader. The Details was shortlisted for International Booker Prize.

4.5 So short, yet so rich!! Couldn’t help but to relate so much to the connections that never really leave one‘s being.

The Details is another one of the books in this year’s International booker Longlist (as of typing now shortlisted) which has an autofiction element. Personally this is not a complaint from my part. The Booker has always managed to capture reading zeitgeist and it looks like autofiction and meta takes of historical events were dominant over the last year or so. The Details starts with the narrator, who is sick, picking up a copy of Paul Auster’s New York Trilogy. She then takes a trip to the past and presents us with four portraits of her past lovers. Each memory has some structure; they start with a chance meeting , then the narrator and her lover begin to learn about each other which eventually leads to a split and some sort of betrayal. usually each of these people deny the narrator’s existence in their lives or contradict themselves: for example, The first lover. Johanna, who is a Paul Auster fan denies that that she even likes the author. Character wise the lovers vary ; the aforementioned Johanna, who is kind, the selfish and slobby Nikki, the rather strange Alejandro and Birgitte. who harbours secrets. Throughout these four characters patchwork of themes emerge: social class , mental health and the unreliability of memory. In between there are some literary, musical and film namedropping. Something, I, admit, I do like when done well. There is that old saying that people never change. In The Details Ia Grenberg proves that relationships can have both positive and negative effects on a person’s behaviour, as we can see in the novel each relationship with the narrator makes the lover a more confident person or provoke another extreme reaction and the character ‘disappears’. In the end, in a relationship the true personality emerges through details and Ia Grenberg brings this out well.

** WINNER of the 2025 Booker International Prize** ‘Do you know who gets justice?’ asks author Banu Mushtaq, ‘only those who demand it.’ The southern Indian author believes ‘that a writer’s task is to register injustices,’ and to ‘record them in an artistic way,’and the twelve stories collected in Heart Lamp profoundly and painfully rise to the challenge. Heart Lamp marks Mushtaq’s breakout into the English language, translated from the Kannada through Deepa Bhasthi’s wonderful work that have earned her and Mushtaq the honor as a finalist for the 2025 Booker International Prize. As she explains in her interview for the award, the stories ‘were chosen from around 50 stories in six story collections I wrote between 1990 and later’ making it a sort of “best of” in her tales that center around women and the inhumane treatment they experience under systemic oppressions of patriarchy in cahoots with caste and religion that force women into subordinate roles. ‘I was only his wife, that is, free labour,’ thinks one narrator that speaks as if for all the women who populate these stories of neglected or abused wives who feel their ‘only claim to importance was that she was the mother of his children.’ The twelve stories read like variations on the same themes and often repeat the same major plot points (a husband leaving for a much younger woman is in nearly every story) which, admittedly, can make them all blend together and leave you wanting a wider scope of stories, yet Mushtaq writes with such passionate eloquence illuminating these social ills wrought by oppressive social constructs and makes Heart Lamp a bold and beautiful collection. ‘When there was so much poverty and misery around, was there a need to be inhumane too?’ Banu Mushtaq dives into the domestic lives of women amidst the mundanities of daily living in order to illuminate the rot within society. Its a cast of mothers, grandmothers, and daughters beleaguered by the ill behaviors of men within their community as these stories are rife with mothers trying to raise a family as the father runs off with other women, mothers rejected when asking relatives or even religious leaders for aid, mothers wracked with shame, jealousy, and more often than not, rage. It gets to be a bit of the same in each story though there are a few oddballs such as the one about a food obsession, but the repetitiveness amalgamates to an undeniable portrait of women’s lives stifled at every turn by their own society that reflects just how constant and overwhelming it is. ‘[I]t is accepted that the wife is the husband’s most obedient servant, his bonded labourer,’ and to make matters worse, the men are completely ignorant to the struggles of the women having been socially reinforced to view their oppression as the norm. Pleas of justice or rage are often met with bewilderment, a very “but you are treated fairly” dismissal of ignorance that is usually followed by victim blaming. ‘All these rights are available for women in Islam. A girl can go to school, she can go to the shops, go to work. She can have a life outside. But there is clause too that she should not exhibit her body and her beauty…’ Mushtaq’s unflinching and direct stories all occur within fairly rigid Muslim communities and demonstrate how religious authority is often weaponized against women and becomes a rather aggressive branch of the larger patriarchal structures marginalizing them and keeping women oppressed. We also see how gender norms and rolls are also upheld in order to perpetuate gender inequality and limit access to autonomy, both bodily and financially. Stories such as The Shroud emphasize how poverty only compounds their marginalization and, coupled with the caste hierarchies, dehumanizes people. ’Material things had become priceless and human beings worthless. Behind those material possessions, people’s feelings were on sale.’ ‘If there are people to help the rich, the poor have God,’ says one narrator, desperate for a God to even recognize her struggles.’Mushtaq uses the rigidness of caste structures as another example of institutional oppressions and the overarching threats of social structures ‘You gave me the strength to bear a lot of pain. But you should not have given him the cruelty to cause so much of it.’ Despite the overwhelming bleakness and brutality, Mushtaq’s stories inevitably rise to show the empowerment of collective rage and resistance. Women find ways of expressing autonomy, such as getting a medical procedure against a husband’s wishes or women throwing rocks at a man in the streets of the story Black Cobras. Most moving for me was the final story, Be a Woman Once, Oh Lord!, which works almost as a collective outcry embodying the entire book when a woman writes a letter to Allah daring her god to try and survive as a woman. ‘You are just a detached director,’ she criticizes. ‘Women are a vital part of society, but society silences their voices,’ says Mushtaq. A journalist, lawyer, and women’s rights activist, Mushtaq has certainly honed her skills towards advocacy and her professional background certainly sharpens the social critiques of her stories and characters. ‘I want to scream and shout through them,’ she says, using their voices to challenge the communities she lives within. ‘I am a critical insider,’ she discussed in a recent interview with Outlook India, acknowledging that speaking out against a community while living within it is ‘the most dangerous position for a person to occupy.’ She stands strong, though it has not been without struggles. ‘I’ve been ostracised by many within my community because I express my views frankly. There have been threats. The physical assault I suffered left me traumatised. I couldn’t write anything for quite a while after that attack. But eventually, I got back to writing about people who misuse their power; leaders who mix religion and politics; and about women who are denied their rights and find the strength to fight for them.’ Making one’s voice heard, or the forces that try to silence it, is one of the central themes in Heart Stories and Mushtaq has seen firsthand how society often finds that ‘being outspoken is considered the greatest disqualification for a woman,’ while noticing that men are always encouraged to speak up. Mushtaq reminds women to use their voice even if society disagrees, telling women ‘if you see a way forward, mention it.’ Even if it is hard to do so. For me it calls to mind the end to Audre Lorde poem A Litany for Survival : ‘when we speak we are afraid our words will not be heard nor welcomed but when we are silent we are still afraid So it is better to speak remembering we were never meant to survive.’ Translating her book into English—Heart Stories is the first Kannada language book to be a finalist for the Booker—is a way to have her voice heard even louder across the world. ‘English carries a history of colonialism of course, but it has opened up many possibilities since it is considered the universal language now,’ Mushtaq says. Which is why translators are such an important role in the art world and deserve greater attention, such as this wonderful translation by Deepa Bhasthi. The translator, who came to be drawn to Arabic literature from reading the poetry of Mahmoud Darwish, sees hope for a rise in readership of translated literature, theorizing that social media exposing people to global culture may play a part in a desire to read literature from different languages and culture. ‘Plus,’ she told the Booker, ‘like Anton Hur says, reading translated fiction makes you sexy!’ As a big Anton Hur fan, I can get behind this. ‘Once in a while I scream and shout a little. It is a dog’s life, isn’t it, that’s why.’ Language is important to the stories in Heart Lamp and many of the key terms in the Kannada language are left untranslated in the text. It helps create a sense of specific place and culture to spotlight the struggles of Muslim women in her community but also lends itself to an understanding that language can also play a part in social oppression or resistance. This passage, for instance, from the first story Stone Slabs for Shaista Mahal: ‘If I use the term yajamana and call him owner, then I will have to be a servant, as if I am an animal or a dog. I am a little educated. I have earned a degree. I do not like establishing these owner and servant roles. So then shall I say ‘ganda’ for husband? That also is too heavy a word, as if a gandantara, a big disaster, awaits me. But why go into all this trouble? You could suggest that I use the nice word ‘pati’ for husband – then again, no woman who comes to your house introduces her husband saying ‘This is my pati’ – right? This word is not very popular colloquially. It is a very bookish word. If one uses the word pati, there comes an urge to add devaru to it, a common practice, equating one’s husband with God. I am not willing to give Mujahid such elevated status.’ There is so much connotative meaning inherent in the terms here, which is quite well written. I enjoy that Mushtaq makes it specifically her own community in her criticisms on patriarchy, religion, and caste. The latter term is often used in the Western world as a sort of cross-cultural metaphor in examining social politics that can dilute or take attention away from those struggling under caste systems elsewhere. While an informative and bestselling book, Caste: The Origins of Our Discontents by Isabel Wilkerson received a fair share of criticism over that aspect. Such as Charisse Burden-Stelly’s piece in the Boston Review where she criticizes how ‘In Wilkerson’s definition, race amounts to little more than the ascription of value to physical traits, yet she conflates caste and race throughout the text,’ which removes structural analysis of both while also presenting a fairly reductionist look at caste and the historic trajectories of caste systems in India. Mushtaq writes in a way that keeps things central and avoids universalization of her subjects. Shortlisted for the Booker International and a heartfelt if occasionally bland as a whole collection, Heart Lamp is a searing portrait of women’s struggles in India and the importance of collective rage and voices. Wonderfully written and full of sharp social insights and criticisms, Mushtaq speaks up for women’s agency and thanks to the translation from Deepa Bhasthi her decades worth of work is now available to the English speaking public. A short but meaningful collection. 4/5

Realistic reflection of the patriarchal society we are still living in. Most stories reflect this and are quite disturbing to read getting to see how women/girls are still suffering today despite everyone’s belief that everything is better today. I would have loved the collection more if the stories showcased characters belonging to different backgrounds/faith. A good collection living up to the hype!

Originally written in the Kannada language, this collection of short stories focuses on the experiences of girls and women in Muslim communities in India. I recommend this book to fans of translated literature who really want to be immersed in another culture. The translator made the deliberate choice not to include footnotes or italicize non-English words, and to retain family titles from the original language rather than converting them to terms like “mom” or “aunt.” This creates an immersive effect similar to travelling to another country and learning about bits of the language and culture along the way. Though the translation is of course English, it doesn’t feel Anglicized in the same way translated works sometimes do. Because it takes place in a culture very different than my own, some of the characters’ choices were baffling to me, and I had to deeply consider why they were making them. Other moments felt totally universal and were easily relatable. Unfortunately, dealing the patriarchy is something most women will be very familiar with. I really enjoyed this part of the translator’s note, which I think gets at the universal themes underlying the specific stories: “That said, I choose to attribute my gustakhi, my imprudence, to translate Banu to something she once said to me. She said that she does not see herself writing only about a certain kind of woman belonging to a certain community, that women everywhere face similar, if not the exact same problems, and those are the issues that she writes about. This sisterhood to which those of us who identify as women belong is the cushion I place my translation on. The coping mechanisms we devise, the solutions we find and the adjustments we make around men are survival strategies nurtured across generations. The particulars may be different, but at the core is a resistance to being controlled, 'tamed', or disallowed the exploration of our full potential. These experiences, both Banu and I believe, can be found anywhere in the world.”

Highlights: Patriarchy, gender bias, power packed This collection of 12 stories are taken from day to day lives of Kannadiga Muslim community. Each story focuses on an area of impact, highlighting oppression and extreme abuse! What I loved: Empathy. Every story is written in a way that could feel personal. Super smooth translation! Details on rituals - marriage (nikaah), circumcision (khatna), shroud (kafan) soaked in zamzam water, home tutoring Arabic for girls. Subtly narrating misplaced priorities - how the ones upholding the religion themselves are confused! Each of the first few stories packed a powerful punch! Had the daughter not stopped her mother doused in kerosene in the title story, the world wouldn't have read this beautiful book. As it is true story based on author's life! Gut wrenching! The last story - "Be a woman once, oh Lord!" - heart wrenching! A letter written by a woman to God! Overall: Rooted in culture of a regional community, collectively portrays muted oppression in various forms. Even the lighter stories depict a shade of associated cultural nuances. Wish it was purely fiction! Much recommended. Personal notes for each story: (Stone Slabs for Shaista Mahal) - Hollowness creeping in women's soul due to hollow promises. Insecure with mother-in-law, as the husband may replace wife, not mother! (Fire Rain) - Issue of inheritance for mutawalli's sister, mob frenzy due to burial in non Muslim area! Misplaced priorities of mutawalli - problems coming from all directions. (Black cobras) - Mutawalli ignoring the plights of a lady whose husband has abandoned her for another wife! Favors the man as the religious law promotes this practice! (Decision of heart) - Clashes with mother in law. Husband treats them both equally. Harrowing ending with Mother remarried without consent! (Red Lungi) - Khatna. Difference in treatment of rich and poor. (Heart Lamp) - kerosene! Based on author's own life! (High heeled shoe) - obsession, jealousy (Soft Whispers) - childhood friend growing on to take a position in mosque (Taste of heaven) - mediocre (Shroud) - improtance of shroud from Mecca soaked in zamzam. (Arabic teacher) - mediocre. Funny. Details on extreme carefulness with girls tutors. Dud ending - Gobhi manchurian! (Be a woman once, oh Lord) - Raw and unfiltered. Kind of an open letter to God, unapologetic yet polite!

This is a well-crafted collection of short stories. While the stories vary, they all have a common thread - the inferior status of women in a patriarchal Muslim society. It shines through the author has passionate views about the subject.

Banu Mushtaq’s Heart Lamp is a searing collection that strikes at the soul of patriarchy cloaked in the name of tradition. As an activist and lawyer, Mushtaq doesn't just write fiction—she indicts. Her stories are blunt instruments of truth, holding up a mirror to the injustices that women face within the rigid confines of traditional Kannadiga Muslim families—though it's painfully clear that the same could be said of families across religions and regions. The oppression is not unique, only the setting changes. This is not an even collection. Not all stories carry the same emotional weight and that inconsistency leaves you a bit ambivalent. Is it good that the book isn't relentlessly heavy? Or does that dilute the punch? Some stories are difficult to digest, not for lack of quality but for the rawness of the lives they depict. But when the stories land, they shatter. Tales like "Heart Lamp", "Black Cobras", and "Be a Woman for Once" leave you feeling gutted. In contrast, chapters like Fire Rain or The Arabic Teacher, with their bumbling male characters, feel oddly light and even clumsy—almost a misstep when placed beside such visceral power. Mushtaq’s win of the International Booker Prize feels like long-overdue recognition of the kind of stories that have for too long remained trapped in the margins. Yet, reading Heart Lamp also leaves you with a sense of loss for the countless voices like them buried in regional literature, untranslated and unread. How many such powerful books fade away without ever being heard? Thank god for translation and translators, truly. It is not a comfort read and one can only hope that, a decade from now, the number of readers who can relate to the women and men in this book diminishes.

4☆ — more than any other sentiment, what engulfs the reader (as it does the women in the story) is the helplessness of the women. their circumstances are such that we begin to feel helpless ourselves from not being able to leap through the pages and get them out (or even to give the men a punch in the head). the women in these stories are not perfect themselves, but we understand that they are simply functioning for survival amidst a highly classist and patriarchal society that demands who they should obey and how. all books have a context to them within which they are written, and this short story collection is no different. the origins of this collection can be traced back to the author's efforts during the bandaya sahitya (sahitya meaning literature, and bandaya meaning dissent/resistance), a progressive literary movement based in karnataka that is worth reading about. it places the stories and the author's endeavour in a new light, one which makes you appreciate them all a lot more. i would also suggest not leaving out the translator's note at the end, as it highlights some of the translation context and the process better. some of my favourite stories: be a woman once, oh lord!, red lungi, the shroud, black cobras, and the arabic teacher and gobi manchuri.

Imagine my delight when I saw a book that was originally written in my mother tongue get shortlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize. Reading this collection of short stories featuring Muslim women was an interesting experience. It could have been my familiarity with the original language or my experience of witnessing similar characters as the women in the stories, that made this book feel very real. I can see why this anthology made it to the shortlist. The stories and its characters featured important social issues but what made it all possible was the exceptional translation. No two stories written by Banu Mushtaq are the same. The characters and their plights vary from each other, but there’s an undeniable sense of helplessness and unjust that attaches itself to these women who want to just live as per their rights. The sharia law is different from the normal law, giving the husbands or men in general an upper hand and this detail has been highlighted time and again in her stories. She covers the lives of the rich and the poor, of women of different temperaments, fighting or pushing for their needs and wants. What makes this collection impressive is also the worrying aspect that these stories feel extremely real. When fiction collides with real life, it sometimes blurs the line between the two worlds. Deepa Bhasthi has made it possible for people across the world to access this incredible piece of literature through her clever and thoughtful translation. By selecting such simple yet profound stories, and by carefully translating them, she has made it all the more remarkable. These stories aren’t just about the Muslim women but somehow encapsulates the collective feeling of what it takes to live as a woman in this patriarchal world. I highly recommend this. @penguinindia I can’t thank you enough for sending this copy.

I would recommend reading the translator's note, "Against Italics", found after the collection of stories, first, to both aid in the process of reading this book and for contextual comprehension. There is work to be done for readers outside the religion and community of the author, even though the themes are universal. These stories delve into the everyday lives of women and girls in Muslim communities in southern India. Clearly, the focus of these narratives is on women facing societal, religious and familial challenges imposed by class, patriarchy, dogma and even misogyny. This collection is both a feminist critique of the oppressive constraints placed on women in these circumstances and a tribute to their loves, losses and resilience. The collection shed light on a world largely unknown to me on this granular level, yet it appeared familiar in the ways women lacking agency struggle everywhere. You shouldn't put a Western feminist perspective lens on these stories, however, as that would diminish their unique cultural setting. These settings and circumstances are communicated to us with an interesting conversational storytelling style, and the translator has left many words untranslated for you to investigate and learn, so the text doesn't lose touch with its community. There is little dialogue, making this dense collection a slower read for me, but I appreciated being transported to that world so effectively.

before i begin, i want to say monty (my dad #feminist) said this book was a leaning 4 i was actually insanely excited to read this. a kannadiga advocate getting longlisted for a booker is insane! and this is definitely humongous strides in our community. also truthfully, the hindu nationalism within karnataka, and more importantly jndia, allows this collection to give voice to a minority. deepa bahasthi’s translation, as well as translation note was so well executed. im unsure if it’s because of my lack of awareness of kannadiga muslim culture, or just mushtaq’s prose, but some of the stories fell flat to me. sometimes they felt redundant, or confusing to follow, and not because colloquial kannada was used. regardless i really seemed to enjoy the larger majority, but around the middle of the book i felt lost and in a way demotivated, which is SUCH a shame cause the themes are so well addressed and according to monty are very “personal to kannadiga culture”

Heart Lamp is a worthy winner of the International Booker Prize 2025. Translated from Kannada, this is a collection of short stories centring the lives of Muslim women in India. Most of them are splendid and showcase not only a warm writing talent, but also the layers of pain and hardship suffered in a patriarchal society. Religious hypocrisy is a recurrent theme, and while the men in these stories weren't universally villainous - there were plenty who made my blood boil with their selfishness and cruelty. There were only two stories that I felt lacked point and direction - Red Lungi and Soft Whispers. Perhaps some of their cultural significance was lost in translation? Overall, a brilliant collection that I highly recommend. Contemplative, human, and heart-breaking.

It doesn’t try to impress the reader with grand language or dramatic twists. Instead, it unsettles you with how real and uncomfortably familiar it feels. What I appreciated most is Mushtaq’s restraint. The stories are sharp, observant, and emotionally honest without ever becoming preachy. She writes about women, faith, family, and power in a way that feels deeply rooted in lived experience. The pain her characters carry isn’t exaggerated, it’s everyday, normalized pain. The kind society often teaches people to accept without question. That’s what makes it hit harder. Some stories are stronger than others, which is why this lands at four stars instead of five for me. A few narratives feel a little abrupt, almost like they end just when you want them to go deeper. But even then, the emotional core is strong enough to make you pause and think. This isn’t a comforting read, but it is an important one. Heart Lamp asks you to sit with discomfort, to notice the quiet injustices we overlook, and to listen to voices that are too often sidelined. If you enjoy short stories that are socially grounded, morally complex, and written with quiet confidence, this book is absolutely worth your time. Rightfully the winner of the 2025 international Booker Prize 🏆.

a couple of the stories in here will stick with me for a long while

I finally finished a book! It's only taken me three months to manage it. Reading slump? Who's she, I never met her. I picked this book up because it won the International Booker Prize (2025). I was curious about it, despite the fact that this does not seem to have been a fan favorite. I have to say, while I can't say yet whether this was the most deserving of the list to receive the award because I have only read this from the longlist/ shortlist, I did really enjoy it. I heard complaints about too many characters and repetitive stories - I disagree on both counts. I'm someone who is historically sensitive to having a lot of characters - particularly a lot of main characters - and this did not bother me. I also did not find the stories repetitive; sure, certain themes were repeated - abused women, men taking on younger second wives and abandoning their first wife and children, etc. - but I felt that each story was fresh with something new and different to say. There are also themes on the love between mothers and daughters, which was quite touching (in a perusal of my favorite books, the majority of them either have no mother mentioned or have a dead or absent mother, so this was a welcome break from that norm for me). The fact that this seems to have been the least popular of the shortlisted books has me very curious about the rest of the shortlist. I am looking forward to reading more of the shortlist to see how this stacks up for me. Rating: 4/5

a beautiful, stirring collection.

Matt is a bathroom salesman who has recently lost his job and spends his time mooching about instead of finding a new apartment to live in. His girlfriend Harriet leaves him when the deadline on their lease expiry approaches and Matt still hasn't taken any action. Deciding to turn things around, Matt accepts an offer of a flat at Satsuma Heights, but there's just one small catch. "I don't like to call it spying. Think of it as residential intelligence gathering." Page 64 Yep, Matt is asked to spy on his neighbours for the eccentric owner of the building and he's quickly pulled into their lives as a result. Soon there's a missing person case to solve and it's unclear if Matt will succeed in getting his life together. In The Long Shoe, Bob Mortimer creates terrific characters and Hot Dog was a clear standout for me and I just loved his nickname for Matt; Jigsaw! Carol the flirty cougar was an unlikeable character so perfectly depicted that I could hear her grating voice and almost smell her perfume darling! Mortimer's signature humour is back in full effect and I enjoyed his observations of the mundane, like when Matt asks if a character's vape is vanilla and potato when it's actually raspberry and coconut. The Long Shoe by Bob Mortimer is part of a series that began with The Satsuma Complex and continued with The Hotel Avocado. I loved The Satsuma Complex - giving it 5 stars in my review - in 2023 but somehow missed reading The Hotel Avocado. While each of the three books are set in the same world or Mortimer universe, The Long Shoe can easily be read as a standalone. The Long Shoe by Bob Mortimer is a chuckle-worthy and entertaining mystery with compelling characters and yes, even a very long shoe. I hope the author continues this cozy crime series in the future. * Copy courtesy of Simon & Schuster *

4.5 🌟 What a character Carol is! Very readable and fun

Always fun, a.ways a laugh from Bob Mortimer.i love that narrates his own books too.

Who doesn’t love Bob Mortimer? He certainly can write! His books are funny (no surprise there), warm, witty and very engaging. This is his third book and I enjoyed it immensely. Written with his unique humour, it was certainly a winner for me. Read on my free Kindle BotrowBox Library App

Good, but not his best. It started with lots of promise but Bob’s mad side seemed to vanish about half-way through. Still plenty of smiles to be had but preferred the previous two.

Another hit from Bob Mortimer. He can't go wrong it seems

I loved the book, it was the first Bob Mortimer novel I have read and it was a thoroughly heart warming read. Bob's personality seems embedded in the main character which, after growing up watching him on screen, gives a familiarity and deepens the affinity with the character. Why 4 stars not 5? Well, it's down to the chapter he wrote in the voice of Carol.... Now Carol isn't particularly likeable, but that said, I felt the author had built her into a multi-layered, fairly well rounded character. And then he goes and gives her a chapter of her own where she (to me) portrays herself in the manner you would expect from a pantomime dame - sorry Bob - it spoiled it for me and cost you a star! A good read nonetheless, would recommend.

Went in and knew what I was expecting with Bob's mayhem and book antics, right up my street. I actually like the who dunnit vibe and fair play, had me going for most of the book. nice easy read and plenty of phrases, names and scenarios that tickled my pickle.

Another fun read from the delightfully mad Bob 👏👏👏

Thank you Mr Mortimer for reminding me that not all books written by men are gross. Just lovely.

I thoroughly enjoyed this book, if you’re a fan of Mortimer then you’ll enjoy the comedic style it’s written in but it also stands up as a great modern mystery/noir style novel with a uniquely British voice.

14 day PR. No Satsuma complex but a right cracker from Bob. Monsons presence was appreciated.

If you like Bob Mortimer you’ll enjoy this his third novel. I listened to the audio version and it’s Bob himself reading, with Diane Morgan and Arabella Weir. They’re all fantastic. The mode of the story is not dissimilar to the earlier two but the story feels a little tighter I think. Enjoyed the characters including a grumpy cat. Missing person and odd goings-on to be solved. Plenty of Bob’s humour in the shaping of characters and situations. An enjoyable listen on a Sunday afternoon.

I would have liked the shoe to have been even longer. Another corker from Mr Mortimer.

page turner, fun, good mystery enjoyed a lot will continue reading everything from Mr Mortimer

Yes Siree Bob ! It took me a while to work out this book didn't follow on from the previous two, but that's what happens when you don't read things properly.🤔 During the last two books I craved Battenberg and during this one it was eggs, Mr Mortimer I think you are some kind of subversive influencer, and companies are therefore missing a trick. This was a very satisfying, highly entertaining read with shades of Magnus Mills thrown into the equation. Can't wait for more.

4.5🌟 Ended up reading in a day- first time reading one of Bob Mortimer's books and definitely not the last! I love how his strange, "quirky" humour translates to fiction. A real fun read indeed.

Really enjoyed this and was pleasantly surprised at how engaging it was.

Lots of fun, if you liked his other books you’ll love this! Hapless Matt thinks his girlfriend Harriet has left him, but is all as it seems? A host of other supporting characters lead us to a fun conclusion.

I love Bob Mortimer. Not in a creepy way. Just in the way you love someone who can make you laugh about a pie, a squirrel and existential despair in the same breath. “The Satsuma Complex” charmed the pants off me. “The Hotel Avocado” did it again. So, I came to “The Long Shoe” already half smiling. Matt, poor bugger, has lost the lot. Job gone. He can't afford his flat. Girlfriend vanished into thin air. Then, he’s offered a job that comes with a swanky apartment, which feels less like good fortune and more like someone upstairs fiddling with the dials. He thinks it might win her back. Instead, he starts to suspect she didn’t leave at all. On paper, it’s a caper. A noir-ish muddle involving missing women, dodgy employers and the usual creeping sense that something isn’t right. In practice, the caper is a kind of camouflage. What drives “The Long Shoe” is loneliness. Thick, persistent, slightly shame-faced loneliness. The kind Mortimer wrote about in his autobiography. The jokes are there, of course. Talking animals, odd metaphors, bits of sideways logic that make you blink. But underneath it all is that familiar ache. Ordinary blokes who don’t quite know how to be alone, or together. Harriet’s disappearance isn’t just plot fuel. It’s an enforced audit of her relationship. What does she miss. What does she feel oddly lighter without. Mortimer lets both lists sit there without judgement. The quiet realisation that love and relief can share the same kitchen table. The tone is still Mortimer through and through. He can move from mild peril to an off-kilter metaphor about a feature measured in small rodents without breaking stride. There’s danger, introspection and feather-light humour all jostling in the same corridor. It never tips into syrup. That’s the trick. He keeps the decency intact even when the situation gets murky. That said, the template is starting to show. The sharp-tongued neighbour. The slightly passive, bewildered man. The missing girlfriend who may not be as missing as she seems. If you’ve read “The Satsuma Complex” and “The Hotel Avocado”, you’ll clock the pattern early. The surreal flourishes still land. The talking cat earns its keep. But the novelty feels less freshly caught, more reheated with care. The premise itself is a bit over-engineered. It has the air of an Athletico Parsnips episode that’s wandered off into the weeds for a smoke and come back insisting it’s a thriller. Things click into place a shade too neatly. The peril is low voltage. The mystery zips along so briskly there’s barely time to feel genuine tension. Events happen, then more events happen, loosely strung together like mildly chaotic beads. And yet. The prose is still the reason you’re here. Mortimer’s sentences have that pub-story cadence. Slightly rambling, oddly specific, then suddenly bang on target. He notices launderette-scented vape smoke, cheap suits that sit like damp cardboard, luxury flats that feel like borrowed skin. His metaphors are homespun and peculiar, but they stick. Even when the structure wobbles, the voice carries you. There’s also that sweetness to his worldview. Loyalty matters. Small acts of courage matter. Even shithouse blokes can step up when it counts. He’s not writing Dostoyevsky and thank Christ for that. He’s writing about ordinary people who’d never headline anything, trying not to make a complete mess of their lives. So yes, there’s repetition. Yes, the formula is visible. Yes, I’d quite like him to tear it up next time and surprise us properly. But I was fond of this. I laughed. I winced a bit. I felt that quiet thrum of loneliness beneath the nonsense. Four stars. I’ll keep turning up for whatever fruit or footwear he throws at us next. I just hope one day he smacks his own arse with a fish slice and swerves somewhere completely new.

4.5 ⭐️ I absolutely loved this. It’s full of laughs, suspense, unreliable characters and a Goodmonson WHO TALKS. You’ll meet Matt, a man who makes me want to crawl up my own arse, a wet lettuce if you will. Harriet, who needs to go travelling and find herself, specifically away from the lettuce man. A yoga instructor with uncharacteristically tight butt cheeks. A cockney gangster who likes darts, beer and boobs yet has an affinity with abnormally (some would say quirkily) long shoes. Lawrence, a sketchy man who owns Sastuma Heights. And how could I forget, fucking Carol. The woman, the myth, the legend. A book you won’t want to put down because you’ll be so confused, intrigued, hooked by the way Bob writes. Will definitely be reading more from him.

I've been hugely fond of Bob Mortimer's endearing whimsy since he and Vic Reeves burst on to our TV screens in 1990 in an updated, more arch and knowing version of childhood favourites Morecambe & Wise. I'm not a huge fan of celebrity novelists and actively avoid them, but between fond sentimental remembrance of the tv of my 20s, and being the owner of a Patterdale terrier just like Ted in Mortimer's show Gone Fishing (same age, same attitude, less pronounced underbite), I saw this book was available on Libby and decided to try it out. I'm very glad I did, it gives very strong Nick Hornby High Fidelity-era vibes, and is beautifully written and expertly narrated by Bob Mortimer, Diane Morgan and Arabella Weir. For a few hours, I too was back in my 30s like the protagonists here, and it was great fun. It's not 5⭐️ because it's a little derivative, but it's pretty darned close. I'm going to read his other books now

Bob Mortimer has such a unique style of writing, with quirky protagonists who always come across as entirely unassuming and just normal. I like how the crime element is almost in the background of this book, and instead it’s the story of an ordinary guy who’s lost his way in life and is just trying to get his girlfriend back. I really liked Hot Dog Man and most of the characters in this book. Nothing dramatic happens, and even the twists just feel like a normal part of life, but there’s something compelling about Mortimer’s stories.

Like all of Bob Mortimer’s novels it’s at its best within his comfort zone of human observation and mild surrealism and he again crafts a collection of enjoyably oddball characters with real human emotional arcs that keep them anchored. The premise is fun, nicely structured and just realistic enough to make its flights of whimsy stick, even as the contrivances starts snowballing. It’s a bit shakier when the pace ramps up right towards the end and it has to draw to a conclusion that feels a bit half-baked. It’s more fun just spending time in this world than it is having an intricately plotted narrative.

I enjoyed The Satsuma Complex and The Hotel Avocado so much I thought I may have been let down by a new main character but Matt was Great. No talking Rodents or Winged types in this new mystery but a Cat called Goodmonson! Can't fault the cast and crew, all quite believable and the situation is 'different' and a good read. Well done, again, to Bob Mortimer and his magical mystery tours around a very good plot. Getting ready to pre-order the next thriller that I can read with a smile on my face.

Another very gentle and humorous (while not being hilarious) yarn from the mind of Bob Mortimer. With a very similar plot to that of The Hotel Avocado, we are introduced to some new characters all of whom exude similar characteristics to Bob’s usual cast. It won’t be to everyone’s taste but it’s easy to read and ends with a twist, though not as spectacular as those from Lisa Jewell or Freida McFadden. Listened to the excellent audiobook narrated by Bob himself, with some help.

4* This is what I imagine to be Bob Mortimer on a page. Quirky, fun and painfully relatable. Would have liked more chapters from Carol, the humour runs though and borderlines ridiculous. Decent plot that has a satisfying conclusion.

3.5 love the play with time; must reread

I was not expecting to enjoy this novel as much as I did. The structure of the narrative takes the form of a knockout boxing tournament. A tournament with eight young women as the boxers. The chapters are each a match between two of the boxers. I enjoyed Bullwinkel’s prose. With short sharp sentences firing off rapidly, and constantly using the characters full name, Bullwinkel creates the atmosphere of a boxing round. I genuinely was interested to find out which young boxer would win. However, what makes this book more enjoyable is that while the boxers are fighting, Bullwinkel exposes their thoughts, which at times are quite bizarre and unexpected. Throughout these streaming thought passages, Bullwinkel also delves into the future, and we learn what happens to each boxer in their own future, their very different careers and lives. This is a very short novel. I think this is intentional comparing the story to a fast-paced boxing match. Somehow Bullwinkel finds it possible to give each of the characters a descriptive depth fleshing out each of the very different young girls. It also left me thinking that the tournament is so important for each of the boxers to win for varying reasons, and yet when we see their futures we realize that this tournament is just a transitory moment in time of all their lives and leaves no impact to their futures whatsoever. Is this what Bullwinkel is trying to tell us? That things we believe are so important in the present moment really are not that important at all. Not sure, but I enjoyed it very much.

Headshot is an adrenaline-soaked novel that, for the entirety of its 200 pages, I was unable to put down. A group of teenage boxers challenge one another for the winning title. The chapters are broken up into a series of their face-offs, leading up to the final two. Rather than being entirely centered around the physicality behind the sport, I found this to be an emotional reflection on how we get to where we are, with an added sucker punch of understanding our future selves are always waiting for us.

Maybe it’s a few weeks late but Booker season has just started for me and my first read of the 13 is Rita Bullwinkel’s debut novel. Headshot focuses on eight junior women boxers, who are competing against each other. Using clipped sentences Bullwinkel goes inside each boxer’s life: their present, past and future. Some of the boxers attend other boxer’s matches. As the book proceeds, the number of boxers dwindle until there is a final winner. As I hoped, the boxing is a sort of cover for deeper topics. here’s there’s trauma, class issues and mental health as the book profiles each boxer we see the events which shaped them and effects their thought processes in the ring. This not to say that boxing takes a backseat; there’s a lot of detail bout the punches thrown and dodged, every drip of sweat that runs off the forehead to even the mouthguard, the competitive spirit between the players and insight on how to the youth boxing industry works. The author herself used to take part in sports and one can feel that there is experience behind the tension in each bout. I just loved how Rita Bullwinkel managed to use details in order to describe how each boxer ends up> One damages her fingers trough the curve of the glove, which makes her unable to hold a teacup in her old age. One of the losers becomes a wedding planner because she sees similarities between boxing and wedding preparation. It’s these moments and the fight scenes which propel the book. The quick snappy style does as well. Considering that I do not like sports, from watching to reading, Headshot maintained my attention and ended up as an enjoyable read. Not a bad start to my Booker reading.

(Book 2 of my Journey through the booker prize longlist ) 4 ⭐️ When I saw that the booker prize longlist came out I decided to challenge myself to read as much as I can before the shortlist was decided, I find it so exciting to be able to try and predict the winner, however; since there is 13 books on the longlist I know I will not be able to get through them all & I had to prioritise the books I think sound the most intriguing… along comes Headshot “It’s not that Rachel thinks being a boy is better than being a girl, or that Rachel wants to give up girlhood for boyhood, but that the words themselves (be a good girl) seem to her to perpetually be wearing a see-through jacket. Even when your mother is asking you to do her a favour (be a good girl) it sounds like she is asking you to wear a coat made out of clear plastic. How do words get like that? thinks Rachel. How do words become so gross and synthetic?” Headshot is much like the last book I read Orbital. Not a huge amount of focus on the plot, rather it’s a stream of consciousness following a group of teenage girls as they go through a boxing tournament. Weaving the past, present & future this made for a really unique and singular reading experience. I personally have never read something like this before, it was short and sharp, I underlined half the pages. It’s surprising that I liked this better than Orbital, since my main issue was the fact that I tend to relate and enjoy more plot focused novels and Orbital did not do that at all, I think the difference here was the relatability and connection I made with the girls in Headshot with there thoughts interwoven beautifully between different timelines it’s almost like a lyrical coming of age poem.

Well you are all a bunch of liars who told me this was bad because I thought this was so great. It reminded me a bit of Milkman in how it was written with an omnipresent prose and looked at the lives of different characters. The book takes place entirely during two days of championship tournaments of young girls’ boxing. Whilst we do learn what happens in each of the matches, the book more focuses on the lives of each of the girls and tells of their past and futures. It is like a multiple character study with the boxing competition happening in the background, but that makes you root for certain girls and get emotionally invested in the boxing matches. I really liked how this was written and how you could get lost in the girls thoughts during the boxing matches. It made the book so interesting and it was really well constructed. I’d love to read more books with this type of writing where there’s less action and more focus on a group of people.

i love girls in historically anti-girl spaces. i love girls who are brutal and tortured and strange. i love girls who are bad dogs. i love headshot.

“You can't train for a sport unless you believe you have control over your own destiny. The point of training is to change the outcome of the future. You train to change something you otherwise would have lost.” Eight young women are competing for the Daughters of America Cup at Bob’s Boxing Palace in Reno, Nevada. Artemis Victor, overshadowed by her more successful siblings, wants to win if only to prove that she’s the best Victor sister. “Artemis Victor's hair is straightened….woke up early to do her hair, even before a match. How stupid, Rachel Doricko thinks. What an insane thing to iron flat your hair's natural appearance. But straightening her hair is also proof that Artemis Victor is a perfectionist. In many ways, Artemis Victor knows how to exist in this world in a way that Rachel Doricko, by nature of her weird-hat philosophy, can't. The weird-hat philosophy maintains that, by appearance, one announces themselves as a freak upon entrance. Whereas Artemis Victor can reveal herself to be a freak at any time.” Andi Taylor drove cross-country to Reno, accompanied by neither family nor friends. While competing, she tries desperately to forget the four-year-old boy that died during the summer while she was serving as lifeguard. “They shouldn't give teenagers the job of saving children. It doesn't matter how many CPR classes you've taken. She killed the boy with her wandering eyes.” Rachel Doricko believed in her weird-hat philosophy and hopes to unsettle the other female boxers with her Daniel Boone-style raccoon hat. “Rachel had a theory about other humans: people are the most scared by what makes zero sense to them but that they cannot, no matter how they try, avoid. Because of this, Rachel tried to live her life in as frightening a way as possible….” In the ring Kate Heffer, a conformist by nature, counts the ratio of a circle's circumference compared to its diameter to keep herself calm and focused. “Kate Heffer will say to her parents, I never wanted to become the best in the world at boxing. And Kate Heffer's mother will affirm this delusional statement, this clear contradiction of what Kate herself had voiced only days before, and say, Of course you didn't, honey. Only vulgar girls become the best in the world at boxing. It is this ability of Kate Heffer's to rewrite the reality of her own desires that will allow her to turn every narrative of her life into a self-fulfilling truth. She is, in this way, able to perceive and remember only those events that fit with her current perception of the world around her.” Izzy Lang and her younger cousin Iggy Lang trained against each other and even drove to the competition together. In her second bout, Iggy Lang loses all desire to fight while Izzy Lang, who wanted to win but was defeated by Iggy, finds herself rooting for her younger cousin. “…to Iggy Lang the sport feels empty and vapid. Iggy Lang realizes that perhaps the only person she wanted to box against was her cousin.” Rose Mueller grew up in a small, close-knit village and finds the rules and ceremony of daily prayer and mass comforting. “Unlike the other girls of the Daughters of America tournament, Rose Mueller might be amphibious. She is able to exist in mass and outside of it.” Tanya Maw, whose mother left while she was a young girl, was raised and cared for by her older sister. She also drove to the competition alone but finds herself, even after her defeat, staying to watch the other young women box. “Tanya Maw drove herself…so she could have left at any time….she wants to know how the tournament is going to finish….Tanya Maw would never leave a play before a play is finished.” ”…there is no way that the Daughters of America Cup trophy would ever hold water. There is a slit in the cup where the plastic mold came together…. Like the casinos on the Reno strip, the Daughters of America tournament will not make good on many of its promises.” The boxing ring was old, Reno was gaudy, the referees were unless and the families and friends were undependable. The eight young women in the boxing ring though, were the only real things about this competition. At this moment the fight for the Daughters of America Cup was all important to them but will soon become a small part of their lives, filled later with school, careers, and families. But in this competition, when they appear in the ring, these young women came with the desire to prove how good they were and I found myself oddly vested in their fight for recognition. “Girls are born with all of the eggs they will ever make. Tiny future fighters are nested inside the infant bodies of baby girls….girls are infinite backwards and forwards.”

Wow. Quite the debut novel. I was much more intrigued reading about a youth girls' boxing tournament in Reno, Nevada than I ever expected to be. The story follows eight girls as they compete at this tournament. Each chapter is a match, and within the chapter the short paragraphs go back and forth between the girls fighting, where they are today and where they will be in the future, - all the while describing the fight as it progresses, the setting of the lifeless warehouse and the second-rate referees. Fast-paced, interior, sharp.

“You can’t train for a sport unless you believe you have control over your own destiny. The point of training is to change the outcome of the future. You train to change something you otherwise would have lost.” Reading this was the first time I actually realized that I spent 12 years of my life perfecting an athletic skill that my body will likely never do again (and hasn’t, for over two years). Will I always be a pitcher, even when decades have passed and I forget the feeling of winning an at bat? Does being shaped by a sport while growing up make some part of us forever part of that sport? Spiraling!

I was pretty impressed with this book. It’s about a boxing tournament for women under 18. The author lets the structure of the tournament be the structure of her book. While describing the boxing matches she also describes the characters’ past and future lives.

Sometimes you just like something. I see lots of other people making valid complaints about this book - character names are repeated too many times, there's no dialogue, too many characters with not enough time to develop or change, sparse prose, chapters were too formulaic, etc. - and I acknowledge that all of that is present. And I still don't care about any of that because my enjoyment from reading this book outweighed any of its flaws. I appreciate ambitious characters who know exactly what they want and their only source of conflict are the things stopping them from getting it. A character that will bulldoze their way from point A to point B damning the consequences in the process is someone I want to follow and observe (from a safe distance). We have that in droves here in this book that takes place over a two-day, under-18 girls boxing tournament. That's something I've never even stopped to wonder if it exists, and I think that kind of heightens the emotions; there's a sort of built-in tragedy over the fact that these girls are risking their bodies over a prize that most people even in their own social circles care nothing about. Before the first chapter even begins the reader is met with a tournament bracket showing the starting eight contestants and the first round matchups. Already I'm hooked. Eight protagonists for a <250 page book is admittedly a lot, and by design we won't be spending too much time with the losers who won't go on to the semifinal matches. But it just worked for me. The author doesn't give herself much time to introduce them so their backgrounds and motivations are woven in-between the flashes of the literal boxing matches we're watching. At times it felt a little too detached from the action and I typically am not the biggest fan of third-person omniscient narration for this reason... but it just worked for me here. This isn't a book a lot (or maybe even most) people would enjoy, but as someone who typically doesn't try reading contemporary/non-genre fiction, I was engaged throughout. This did result in possibly our most contentious book club discussion to date (two people DNF'ed it), but this is a case where I will stand my ground and say yes, the haters are wrong. Also, #TeamRachel

I greatly enjoyed this book and I'm happy this was my first read from this year's Booker Prize. I think to format of the book is very interesting and having the reader learn about each character through her boxing match was a great way. I like the way the book was structured and how the narrative jumped to focus on each girl as well as comparing and contrasting them during the match. Each girl was very different from one another with the way they thought and their background but there was also parts that connected them like how they got there, whether or not their family was there, and more. As someone who was a woman athlete I love and hate reading books about it because it makes me miss my sport so much and also fall in love with different sports. Even though I've never boxed before, this book has a universal appeal to women athletes and how the sports treats us, how we feel playing it, and so many other parts of the athletic experience for women. The writing is lyrical and flows effortlessly while also giving each girl a different voice when it is their turn to tell the story. I think this was a great book and great pick for the Booker Prize Longlist.

Now shortlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize. 5th in my longlist rankings (a ranking confirmed in a second read) and a book I would be delighted to see win. My Bookstagram rating, ranking, summary review and Book themed Golden Retriever photo is here: https://www.instagram.com/p/ChPVtpqMk... ‘What’s amiss?’ said Joe. ‘I’ll tell you what’s amiss. I shall. I shall that. You come here, you and your box and your pots and your donkey stone, and fetch in enough to make me frit to death. You’re on about bones and all sorts; and then you’re off, some road or other, and I can’t tell where I am. I’ve got a pain in my eye. I can’t see proper. And I go down the bog and get stuck; and this chap with no clothes on and a daft silly hat, he sits up in the water and he makes no more sense than you do. He says I’ve got glammeritis, and then Stonehenge Kit, he’s gone, and so’s my best dobber; and Whizzy’s with a Brit Basher and they’re after Kit and the mirror’s all wrong then he’s back in the picture. I read this book due to its longlisting for the 2022 Booker Prize – one of only 4 of the 13 books I had not read pre-longlist, and one from an 87 year old author for whom my knowledge did not previously extend much past his name and role as a part children’s, part adult’s author. The book’s epigraph is from the Italian theoretical physicist and writer Carlo Rovelli translated “Time is ignorance” from his “The Order of Time” and (as Garner has explained in interviews) was inspired by a conversation with another theoretical physicist – his friend Bob Cywinski. The conversation started with the two discussing the differences between the observable physical universe of the latter and Garner’s ideas emerging from (as it were) nowhere – but the next day leas to Cywinski telling Garner about a local character: Walter Helliwell known as Treacle Walker – an eccentric tramp “able to cure all things except jealousy” which sparked Garner into thinking about treacle’s Middle English etymology as a medicine used by apothecaries/herbalists. From there Garner seems to have thought more on the concept of time and the falseness of a linear, progressive view: “My [physicist] friend has read [the novel] and he says that he’s seen his subject through a novelist’s eyes and that, for him, it’s a new vision of quantum physics. It’s not; I’ve not done anything except look in a different way at different states and put them into a story where time collapses, and the whole thing takes place in no time – or, rather, not in time as we see it.”; And then to have bought in ideas from: His own life - particularly and most obviously his childhood – many of the ideas seem to be drawn from his recent childhood memoir “Where Shall We Run To?”, but also I think on the prospect of death (one of course close to him given his age but which was always present – hence the idea of time collapsing – given his childhood illnesses). His lifelong study of (particularly but not exclusively – particularly in this book - British and Irish) folklore, legend, song and literature: examples I was able to identify – and I think there are many many more – and some of which are important to understanding the plot and others of which simply lend a few words of vocabulary included: the Welsh legend “Mabinogion”; hillside chalk horses; Samuel Johnson’s nonsense play “Hurlothrumbo”; Dr Robert’s Poor Man’s Friend Ointment from the early 1800s; the Grimm Brother’s “The Singing Bone”; the traditional mummers play “Pace Egg”; George Borrow’s “The Bible In Spain”; the Bonnacon from Medieval Bestaries; Native North American bone divination; the Irish mythological concept of a “thin place” between the physical tangible world and the “otherworld” of dreams and of the crane-skin magical possession bag, the “corr bolg”; bodies ceremonially buried in the bogs – like Tollund Man; the Finno-Ugric concept of the psychopomp or “conductor of souls” to the other world; His lifetimes work “It brings together everything I’ve written, in 15,000 words.” – I suspect this book contains copious easter eggs for readers of Garner’s wider oeuvre English colloquial language (squiffy, blinking heck, twitting, daft as a brush, tickety-boo, taradiddles) and traditions (a good knowledge of rag and bone men as well as marbles taxonomy is a useful adjunct to reading) of a certain age Thresholds, boundaries and liminal imagery - doorsteps, mirrors, woods and bogs - What was in is out. And what was out is in. And (linking nicely to the author’s own childhood and one of the early influences on his imagination) the British comic “Knockout” and particularly the strip “Stonehenge Kit The Ancient Brit” and his enemy “Whizzy the Wicked Wizard” and his “Brit Bashers” (note that I suspect in the hands of most literary fiction authors – particularly those under 60 – this would be a heavy handed allusion to Brexit or Boris Johnson – here refreshingly I do not think it is). In terms of the plot – and there is just about some in this allusion and idea-filled novella, the book opens with ostensibly a convalescing young boy Joe Coppock (although I think Joe could equally be someone at the end of their life or both really as this is a book where time is collapsed) who marks his time by a daily midday train Noony. He has his house visited by a riddling rag-and-bone man Treacle Walker who in exchange for his ‘jamas and a bone from his treasure collection gives him a donkey stone (marked with a ancient horse - as shown on the book’s cover) and leaves a jar of ointment. Joe also plays a bone flute which seems to summon a cuckoo (but later turns out to have had wider impact). Joe wears a patch on one eye but starts to realise his bad eye can see things his good eye cannot – and is told by a bog dwelling man – Thin Amren - that he has a form of second sight. Thereafter Joe finds his ostensible day life, his dreams and the world of his comic book heroes merging and overlapping – and perhaps only late in the book really understands both his fate and destiny. Overall I found this a fascinating addition to the longlist – one where I think many readers (particularly non-English readers) will I think understandably struggle with accessibility, but one that I really loved. It is both temporally ambiguous and meticulously detailed and that itself (like so much of the book) links back to Rovelli’s book the first two sections of which are The Crumbling of Time and The World Without Time and the third of which (from a Wiki summary) argues that “the apparent flow of time is due to the inability to observe all the microscopic details of the world”. Like many of the best books, but particularly appropriately here, this novella reminded me of my lifelong love of reading (from childhood to late 50s) and, again particularly appropriately, it also reminded me of how the best books take you out of time and place – making you simultaneously the child reading a book in bed and the adult using literary fiction – however apparently cryptic - to help to make sense of the world. ‘Fair do’s. Treacle Walker?’ ‘Joseph Coppock.’ ‘What is it you want for you? What is it you want most? For you. Not some wazzock else.’ ‘Never has a soul asked that of me.’ ‘What’s the answer?’ Treacle Walker leaned his head against the timber behind him and looked up into the stack. ‘To hear no more the beat of Time. To have no morrow and no yesterday. To be free of years.’ He closed his eyes. ‘Oblivion. Home.’ ‘That’s not daft.’ ‘It is everything.’

I thoroughly enjoyed this little book! A young boy is trying to understand the world he lives in, alone in an isolated cottage in the English countryside. The story weaves in and out of fantasy, mystery, sorcery and reality — but what is reality?

Shortlisted for Booker prize 2022 I think sometimes we need to accept that we can take a journey without seeing everything. Yes, the language was difficult for a non-English native reader, but I liked the atmosphere and how it constantly made me feel. I should say that the hero of the story has an eye problem and I wear glasses since I was 10. Maybe that's the additional help that this kind of story needs to work.

Written in Garner's plain but elliptical style, Treacle Walker harks back to Garner's earlier work, particularly The Owl Service and The Stone Book Quarter. It's not as dense as some of his later novels, particularly the almost impenetrable Boneland, but it maintains a sense of mystery, and the idea of how much we were influenced by generations that came before us, and how it's possible to come unstuck in time. Joseph lives alone in a house with a large chimney: his only visitor is Noony, the goods train that passes every day at noon, and the enigmatic Treacle Walker, a rag and bone man. If he has parents, we do not meet them. Joseph wears an eyepatch because of his lazy eye, and his "been poorly". He reads comics, especially Stonhenge Kit the Ancient Brit, and follows the mysterious guidance of Treacle Walker. The story is set up like a straightforward fable, but quickly becomes enigmatic, as does much of Garner's work. I thought the ending worked particularly well, bringing together different threads in a way that was both satisfying and surprising. I wasn't sure if this was going to work, but Garner's craftsmanship holds it together, making a story that feels both eternal and surprising.

After Small Things Like These this is another little fairytale on the Booker longlist. I enjoyed it! It is best read in a single sitting and for non-native English speakers I recommend having a dictionary by your side (I learned lots of new fantastic words, Corr Bolg, Bonacon). I also think that native speakers will have more fun with this. As to the plot best to go in blind, I would say. Big thanks to the jurors for selecting it, I most certainly would not have read this otherwise as I usually don't read fantasy (and when I do I like it to be short as the time I am willing to go along is limited - this was nice and short). Last year I read Piranesi and I think people who liked that we appreciate this as well. Shortlist material? Very hard to say...I liked it and it will probably end up somewhere in the middle for me.

Read in one train journey home, not sure I entirely got what was going on but the rhythm and flow of the words had me hooked and was exactly needed to get me back into reading again. Plus Alan Garner is a legend.

Read it a second time. Yup, I’m charmed by this.

Magical; strange and elusive.

Longlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize But it was the drugs, the bastard drugs that messed everything up, that smashed up our dream, the dream not even the Markkleebergers, the hools, Engel’s people and all the cops in Leipzig could put a stop to. While We Were Dreaming is Katy Derbyshire's translation of Clemens Meyer's 2006 debut novel Als wir träumten. I've previously read her translations of two of his later (in the original, but earlier in English) works, the novel Bricks and Mortar and the story collection Dark Satellites. My review of the former pointed to the fascinating and complex voice - "multiple perspectives and different voices, told in a non-linear fashion ... we’re not always clear who the narrator is and even within a given narrative points of view and times shift. Characters “reminisce” about the future" - but also my own frustrations as a reader, both in the subject matter, but also the excessive length which combined with the narrative style to make it hard to follow the real story. I concluded: 5 for the literary merit and the brilliance of the translation and 1 for my personal reading experience. Reading While We Were Dreaming one can see how this, as the author's debut, developed in to the more complex later work. It shares the same (for my taste, excessive) length, the dark subject matter and very masculine point of view, and the non-linear narration. However, it's a more accessible work, the narration within each section actually relatively straightforward, and succeeded in holding my interest to the end, and making me unpiece and then engage with each character's journeys. While We Were Dreaming is the story of a group of youths in Leipzig either side of German reunification, the main characters aged c13 at the time the Wall fell. Our narrator is Danny, and his gang of friends include: 'Porno' Paul, known for his extensive collection of magazines and videos although he found his one experience of the real act rather distasteful; Rico, once a promising amateur boxer but who has more success employing his skills are more useful for gang fights; Mark, who becomes addicted to drugs; Stefan who prefers to be known as Pitbull; and 'Little' Walter, who takes his pleasure and meets his fiery end in carjacking. The story is told in vignettes in non-chronological order, so that we may find ourselves at a character’s funeral but only learn of his death later, or jumping from adulthood years after 1989 to school during the DDR era. This is the story of a group from the 'wrong' side of the tracks as well as the 'wrong' side of the Wall, whose behaviour graduates from insubordination at school (Rico is the first to be send to youth custody for burning his pioneer scarf) to shoplifting, carjacking, fights with rival gangs and fans of other clubs, and alcohol and drug addicition. Detention - first in a youth centre that is almost like a summer camp but later in adult prisons - is an occupational hazard. But Meyer also shows us their positive side: - the gangs and rival fans they most despise are those with neo-Nazi sympathies; and they are loyal to one another (although Danny's own honest narration documents some early incidents where he hid rather than helped his friends). A representative incident has them befriend an elderly lady and provide her with companionship and practical help, but the companionship is largely as she enjoys sharing alcohol with them and they help themselves, behind her back, to her cash as 'compensation' for their work. Literature, particularly translated literature, should give on insight and empathy into different lives, and this definitely succeeded. Although I also can’t avoid acknowledging that the book most came to life not in the descriptions of fights, sex, deliquency and narcotic abuse, but rather in the scenes with which I could connect more, such as an amusing incident when two first see and use a microwave and try to make toast (the other character is Paul so no prizes for guessing what the 'mags' are): ‘I can’t see anything,’ I said. ‘We should be able to see something by now, it should be getting brown or something.’ ‘Just wait another minute.’ ‘Hey, the mags, weren’t you going to get the mags?’ ‘Yeah, yeah. But look at this first!’ ‘Come on, it’s crap, I thought we could have pizza or something.’ ‘I can’t help it, Danny. My mum hasn’t been shopping yet, she was going to...’ Ding! The bell rang once, the plate stopped turning and the light went off. Mark opened the door. The bread looked exactly the same as before. He took one slice out and dropped it. ‘Damn, it’s boiling hot!’ The bread was on the floor; I picked it up carefully. ‘It’s all soft,’ I said, ‘and a bit clammy. Not exactly nice crispy toast.’ Mark used a tea towel to take the glass plate out of the microwave. He pressed his finger into the other slice. ‘I dunno, Danny, it really is a bit soft. I must have set it wrong. Look, you can set the power here, it must have been way too low...’ Or the travails of the local club, Chemie whose post-reunification history rather summarises how the society of the DDR vanishes around the boys: We got to Chemie late, Rico and me, that Sunday in the year after the Wall came down, when we played BFC Dynamo. It was the last season of the GDR League, even though the GDR didn’t exist by then. BSG Chemie Leipzig didn’t exist any more either, we were called FC Sachsen Leipzig now, and a few months before that we’d been called FC Green-White Leipzig for a while, but we didn’t understand why, we believed in Chemie and we were Chemie, forever. BFC wasn’t called BFC either any more, they were FC Berlin, but we didn’t care, we hated them either way. Derbyshire explains some of the translation choices she made here, including the titles of her previous translations (this one easier). It's interesting to note how her say "I want the characters’ language to change subtly as they get older, from childhood to youthful bravado to jaded machismo" as she definitely succeeds in this, and generally in the tone of the story, which is all the more striking with the non-chronological nature of the novel, this tone, as well as more explicit references, acting to signpost where we are at any point in time. This is a less ambitious work than Bricks and Mortar but for me a personally more successful one - 4 stars for the literary merit and quality of the translation and 3 for my own reading experience. On a relatively weak International Booker list this is one of the stronger entries so I will round up to 4 stars for now.

While we were dreaming was a ride. Our narrator is Danny, a kid growing up in Leipzig, spending time with his friends: Rico (passion: boxing), Mark (it's drugs), Little Walter (stealing cars), Stefan/Pitbull (quite a story here for his name) & others. As you can see from their interests, the world they are living in is full of fighting, stealing, drugs, violence, porn. At any point in the book, one of them (or all) is in jail, at the police station, recovering from a fight, getting into a fight, there is no hesitation to get violent with them or with the people around. It it interesting that the title indicates a glimmer of hope, while the horrible things that happen to them/are caused by them seem inevitable, just the way things are. It is a world where only fists solve anything, if you want to protect your circle. Clearly, it is male oriented novel, women do not appear often and when they do, it is mostly in a sexual or domestic violence related context. While I would not like all my books to be like that, I think this is a well crafted novel, painting a raw, cruel picture of life during and after the fall of the Wall. Now, going to my favourite part, the structure. The story is told in a non-linear way, I really enjoyed connecting the dots during this long journey of 500 pages. You might find out that a character is dead and only later discover why, how, you know that Stefan changed his name to Pitbull, but why? These building blocks help us, as readers, to better understand the relationships between characters, between these friends that sometimes help each other and sometimes betray each other in the worst possible way. This is a 3.5 stars book for me, rounded up to 4 stars. My personal order for International Booker 2023: 1. Still born (now shortlisted) - 4 stars 2. While we were dreaming - 3.5 stars 3. Pyre - 2 stars Thanks to Fitzcarraldo Editions and Netgalley for providing an ARC in exchange for a honest review.

I struggled to get through this book. Reading it felt like knocking my head against a brick wall without the faintest whiff of hope or consolation . . . light at the end of the tunnel. By the time I got to around p. 350, I just wanted the torment to end and started galloping through the relentless story of alcohol and drug addiction and violence in a traumatized and disintigrating society. However, I had never thought much about the impact of the collapse of the Wall on the people who had been trapped inside Stasiland for all those years -- especially on the young people. Reading several of the enthusiastic 5-star reviews helped me see the novel in a more positive light. Clemens Meyer has done a remarkable job of recreating life in the ghetto after the collapse of the Wall in Germany. He pretty much nails the insanity that is recreated in all the ghettos of our world -- the breakdown of men and the abuse of women and children. Meyer creates a vivid picture of the relentless chaos of people trapped in dehumanizing conditions. It's a tragic story -- an uncomfortable read. Meyer nails it. Likewise the translator Katy Derbyshire.

This book has been sitting on my shelf since it was first longlisted for the International Booker in 2023 and I have been meaning to read it ever since. I knew that it was set during the reunification of Germany, and after having read Kairos, I had my reservations about not understanding the plot, but this was much different to that. I really enjoyed reading this book and especially its narrative. The story builds in parts but it doesn't follow any specific timeline. It feels like building a jigsaw, placing different pieces in different parts of the board as you encounter them and eventually putting together a complete picture. The book is riddled with chaos. It is about what a group of teenage boys turn to when their world is full of chaos and violence and they think they get it but they really don't. They rebel, they fight, they steal, they go to prison, they come back out, the cycle repeats. Nothing makes sense so they turn to disruption. It is only much later, that our protagonist Daniel, tries to make sense of everything that him and his friends went through that he is struck by the madness of it all – 'There is a nursery rhyme I know. I hum it to myself when everything starts going crazy in my head.' That is where the book opens, and every chapter that follows is a vignette that comes to him as he tries looking back. The one consistent thing throughout all these chapters is a sense of ache. I think it is a brilliant book, a novel, that I enjoyed simply as a good story. It has definitely made me want to read more of Meyer's work.

This is a fascinating account of a lose set of episodes spanning the decade or so that saw the German Democratic Republic cease to be communist and end up as part of a reunited Germany. The protagonists are a gang of lads who start as fresh-faced, naughty schoolkids, wrestling with being young pioneers, and ends up with them turning to various degrees of delinquency as the realities of a state safety net evaporated. The chapters appear in a mixed-up order so some have extra poignancy given we are aware of the fate of the some of the boys. The kids enjoy violence, porn, drugs, theft and casual sex – so it’s a pretty uneasy read currently – that said, there is a clear message that the discombobulated (can’t believe I’ve used that word which is a pet hate of mine) political, social and parental world around them is responsible for their rootlessness. There are enjoyable sections on illegal techno clubs and following a lower ranked football team (Chemie Leipzig) and it’s a very smart recreation of time and place.

A gritty and intimate story of teenagers fighting to survive and clinging onto any hope they can find as they come of age in East Germany. It's a non-linear and messy jumble of violence and drugs, but at the core it's a really harrowing story of friendship and despair. I love the International Booker longlist, it always gives me great books I don't think I would have ever found otherwise. I couldn't get a copy of this novel in Canada so I made it a priority to pick one up on my trip through London last month. If you liked Shuggie Bain and Trainspotting, I feel like it's a mix of that but tragically without any gays.

A sweeping, intimate portrait of love, displacement, and the quiet ache of belonging. "There was so much life in this country that Sunny needn't bother to create one. His life could be simply looking upon life." Sonia and Sunny are two young Indian immigrants whose lives, though separated by oceans and circumstance, echo one another in their shared search for connection. In snowy Vermont, Sonia - a homesick college student and aspiring writer - becomes entangled with an older artist whose influence will shadow her for years. In Brooklyn, Sunny - a struggling journalist from Delhi - wrestles with his own sense of alienation as he tries to make a life in a country that never fully feels like home. Back in India, their families, unable to comprehend such loneliness, arrange for the two to meet - a well-meaning act that inadvertently drives them further apart. Kiran Desai's "The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny" is a lush, lyrical meditation on solitude, migration, family expectation, and the ways trauma weaves across generations, following Sonia and Sunny across years and continents as their paths cross in multiple ways. The writing is stunning, but the novel is unnecessarily long and at times the narrative feels overextended, trying to encompass too many perspectives and themes at once. Still, the novel's emotional truth resonates deeply, grounded in the universal need to be seen and understood, and the loneliness as the core of many human lives. I also listened to the audiobook for parts of the novel, narrated superbly by Sneha Mathan, whose stellar performance adds richness and intimacy to the story. The multitude of characters and interconnected families can be challenging to track in the audiobook format (the print edition includes family trees that help), but Mathan's expressive reading brings clarity and warmth, making the experience all the more engaging. Expansive yet intimate, melancholic yet hopeful, "The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny "is a beautiful exploration of the distances - geographic, emotional, generational - that define and connect us.

3.5 stars On the shortlist for the 2025 Booker Prize Sonia, a student living in the United States, calls home to her family in India and shares of her deep sense of loneliness. Their solution is to reach out to Sunny, the grandson of a family friend, to explore the possibility of an arranged marriage. At the time, Sonia had started a relationship with an older white artist—eccentric, insecure, and openly racist—while Sunny, also in the U.S., is in his own relationship but keeps it hidden from his family. Desai’s novel unfolds over about 5 years, from the late ‘90s to sometime after 9/11, moving between New York, India, Mexico, and Italy. Through the intertwined lives of Sonia, Sunny, their families, and their circle of friends, the book explores so many themes: cultural identity, immigration and alienation, family expectations, colonial legacies, and the tension between tradition and modernity. Above all, it lingers on the profound loneliness that often accompanies the immigrant experience. I began listening to the audiobook but found the narrator’s soft, soothing tone too calming to keep me engaged, so I switched to the Kindle version. Reading the words on the page worked much better for me, and the family tree at the beginning was especially helpful for keeping track of everyone. Desai’s writing is ambitious and wildly imaginative. I genuinely enjoyed the overall tone and learned quite a bit along the way. Her prose is something special—mesmerizing. (For fun, I searched “kebabs” on Kindle—turns out it’s mentioned 62 times here). I sometimes found myself a bit taken back by the frequent detours, historical digressions and side stories that interrupted the flow of the main narrative. By the time I circled back, I’d often lost the thread. Maybe that’s just my ADD, but the novel’s nearly 700 pages occasionally felt heavy and meandering. They both return to their homeland of India where they finally meet, and it’s easy to guess that romance eventually blossoms between Sonia and Sunny. They make for an unconventional pair, and I couldn’t help rooting for them—even though, deep down, they seem mismatched from the start. Verdict: Ambitious, layered, and thematically rich, The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny captures the ache of being far from home, even though the story sometimes wanders off course.

“She thought that this was what people spoke of when they spoke about love: You were outwardly more adult and treated with greater consideration, but secretly you were more childlike, more free, more full of laughter. When you were alone, you felt and lived like a serious, curbed adult, but meanwhile you were treated like a child.” Pegged as an epic love story, but is more of an epic family saga. Beautiful writing, vivid storytelling, engaging characters. Kinda ran out of steam in the last 200 pages, but overall, I enjoyed my time in Sonia and Sunny’s world.

this was the perfect book to get sucked into in India and I’m so glad I saved it for my trip. beautiful prose… funny, weird and wacky whilst also deeply sad at times. with a book so long (longest I’ve read this year) the characters were full and their lives entangled. loved the immigrant stories and views of the west. really enjoyed this one.

The book addresses the stubbornness of cultural difference along with the equally stubborn power of families — social class in relation to gender, creativity and postcolonial disintegration and violence. The writing moves fluently between distinctive voices, but it demands patient engagement. Anyway, do not worry, this book offers generous rewards in return.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 4/5. It’s the premise of being an American, according to Desai’s characters in THE LONELINESS OF SONIA AND SUNNY. In America, you are treated as an individual, with the freedoms and responsibilities of an individual, and therefore you are inexorably alone. Desai gives us two data points to support this argument in the form of Sonia and Sunny, both of whom are Indian immigrants living (at various times) in America, and both of whom can’t seem to shake feeling lonely, even in each other’s company. But back in India, Sunny’s mother and Sonia’s father are lonely too. Sonia’s father pouts and broods, unable to accept that he has been abandoned by his unhappy wife. Sunny’s mother, a widow who struggles to allow Sunny any independence, never feels satisfied: “Even in Goa, Bebita longed for Goa.” Perhaps, then, the reader is meant to understand that it's not just immigrants who are lonely, but also those who are left behind. Despite all of this loneliness, the novel is funny and warm and rich. It’s also meandering at times, and I must admit that I didn’t love every section equally. Much like he hijack’s Sonia’s life, Sonia’s abusive boyfriend, Ilan, also hijacks the novel, with every part in which he doesn’t appear feeling somewhat dull by comparison. I read this back to back with A GUARDIAN AND A THIEF, which by contrast, knows exactly what it wants to say and wastes no words saying so. Majumdar gives us a shorter, tighter, more focused story of a future India on the verge of collapse, with immigration to America being the only thing that can possibly save Ma and her family from starvation. Set over the course of one harrowing week, the novel examines class difference and ethics in the face of impending disaster. Both are wonderful books that I am happy to have read!

Loved the story, characters and writing. Needlessly long where the story rambled at points.

a cool girl book if i've ever seen one. my barnes & noble recently moved, and while this caused a level of devastation previously only recorded in the wake of natural disasters and in households without sweets, it did have one major perk: a little miracle called a "moving sale." on one of the first days of the sale, i saw this book, which i had never (to my specific and bad recollection) heard of, and was for whatever magical reason so charmed that i hid it under a mountain of little known middle grade sequels and crossed my fingers it would wait until my turn. it didn't, but i still found it in a moment of serendipity that would make john cusack jealous. this was very good. beautifully written, stark, evocative. extremely honest while being quite loving. i want to categorize this as nonfiction for how true and real it feels! it's not a pleasant or easy reading experience, but it is a good one. bottom line: three cheers for rom-com-style meet cutes but with books.

I bought this book after it was longlisted for the International Booker in 2022. I’ve only just got to reading it, a year later. It is a book of three quite different sections. Part I, 78 pages, Part II 100 pages and Part III 28 pages. Part I was the standout for me because of the first-person voice, one of the two daughters at the age of ten, a contemporary narrative from deep within the conflict of family life. The second part is a third-person retrospective, which while providing many interesting and missing parts of the history, lacks the life and immediacy of the first part. The third section reverts back to a daughter narrating in the first person, but this time we have jumped forwards many years to the period immediately after the death of the mother. The book is described as Violaine Huisman’s first novel, but throughout I kept wondering if this was really creative non-fiction. Biography. The character of ‘Maman’ is so well drawn and studied. It is only deep within the book that you learn that one of the two daughters, the youngest, is called Violaine. It would be an odd choice to place a character with the same name as yourself in a piece of fiction. This daughter has been living in New York for some years, where Huisman has lived and worked for the last twenty years. Maman, Catherine, is such a wonderful character. She is wonderful for all her excesses; smoking, drinking, wild driving, husbands and lovers, as well as her eventual decent into mental illness. Her foul mouth and foul moods are captured by a child that loves her, which takes the edge off the rudeness and replaces it with humour. Here is an example: Oh fuck off! was one of my mother’s refrains, as was ordering us to go fuck ourselves or to fucking leave her alone, to stop fucking around, to understand that she didn’t give a fuck about our little moral dilemmas or the concerns of a couple of spoiled brats. Oh will you please fuck off! Who gives a shit about your stupid problems! Maman’s diatribes didn’t build to that climax – that was their starting point. My sister and I were so often subject to her harangues that from the opening notes, we’d avoid looking each other in the eye; we’d look at our feet instead. Let her have her say, above all, don’t look up – that was our rule. And no laughing, not even when her tirades became extravagant to the point of hilarity, to the point where we had to pinch ourselves to keep from giggling. We’d try to appear contrite, repentant, even when she’d hit us with the clincher, the craziest line of all: You do realise, don’t you, that I wiped your asses for years! That sentence, a classic in her repertoire, amounted to proof positive that the woman was nuts. How could we take such a declaration seriously? We hadn’t asked for any of this, above all, we hadn’t asked to be born to such a lunatic! The proximity of narrative and madness is the success of the first section. There are many short descriptions that build up the complex portrait of Catherine. A faint odour of death lingered in Maman’s lips when she came to tuck me in at night. There were flecks of foam at the corners of her mouth; her breath had a musty smell. Her complexion had been blanched by sadness, her eyes clouded by doubt, rage, anguish, and more doubt again; her dirty blonde hair hung limp; her sharp cheekbones pressed into my still-round cheeks. Once she’d left my room the odour of her breath, laced with alcohol and pills, clung to my sheets. Her signature scents, Fidji by Guy Laroche, First by Van Cleef & Arpels, languished in the back of a closet. In the medicine cabinet, the various eaux de toilette that, before her hospital stay, she’d worn with haughty coquetry had been relegated to the last place on the shelves. Everywhere there were bottles of pills. Catherine eventually captures the story of her own life and struggles in a book called “Saxifrage”. It charts the period from her birth to her breakdown. I loved this description of the writing when contrasted with the writer: Maman, whose oral performances were exhaustive, endless, tried to keep her writing brief. Such concision was unlike her, it didn’t take into account the complexity of her story, its contradictions. In rereading her book, I don’t find her voice in it; the sentences – the verses – seem studied, affected. She would never have allowed herself to write as she spoke, bombastically and with delight. In my opinion this was a mistake. Her voice was so much more beautiful in its outrageousness. Restraint didn’t suit her, restraint was antithetical to her personality, whether the restraint was stylistic or syntactical. This could explain exactly why the first part of the book is so successful and the others less so; the lack of Catherine’s voice in the later sections. Catherine separates from the father of her two children, but he still visits every day, to see his ex-wife and his daughters. Catherine’s new partner is happy to give them space, but this has unexpected consequences: After all, it’s Catherine who asks this guy, soon to be her husband, to leave their home when her ex comes by, so that her ex can see his daughters without his rival being in the way. The guy didn’t have to be asked twice. He has dinner and then promptly returns to his nearby office, and sometimes as a result, he gets caught up in the piles of work, and in fact yes, he comes home a bit late, the children are already asleep and his wife is too. She doesn’t question the business trips he goes on, men take business trips, men like him, who wear pin-striped suits and leather loafers and carry monogrammed briefcases. She’s completely shocked when she discovers that he’s been fucking his secretary for months already, and that it isn’t his first infidelity. She’s stunned because it isn’t at all like the portrait of the man that she’d painted for herself, the picture of the life that she thought she’d hung above her mantelpiece. But it’s not just the picture that’s been damaged, it’s the wall, the entire structure that has crumbled. She didn’t leave the man she loved, loved body and soul, to find herself fucked over by this asshole. The portrait of Catherine’s resulting madness is both harrowing and brilliant: Her wide-open eyes are staring at a crack that she thinks she can see opening, discharging a swarm of strange creatures, insects, nameless things, now she feels them entering her body. Please make them go away, she screams, the things, things, go away, please, make them. She can’t breathe, how will she make it, she’s not at all strong anymore, she doesn’t know how she’s going to get up, she can’t bear it anymore, how will she ever get up from so much pain. She’s in such pain. It’s too much pain! She rolls out of bed, collapses in a corner of the room, hiding from something only she can see. For fuck’s sake. Can’t you tell? I’m dying! I’m fucking dying! Now the noises are no longer words. She’s left the world of men, entered a realm beyond reason. And fittingly in the final section we come to the extravagance of Catherine’s funeral, which she had carefully planned herself and enlisted her dutiful daughters to carry out. Our pain had abolished all sense of proportion, all restraint – we were shameless, feral. As long as we were still working on Maman’s behalf, attempting to carry out her wishes in death, we were in some sense keeping her alive, and we would have been capable of coming to blows, we could have hit, scratched or bitten any person who tried to stand in the way of our plans. I really enjoyed The Book of Mother, because I loved the extravagance of Catherine’s character. Larger than life, economical with the exact truth and driving on pavements to get around the traffic. So much feisty life and so much heartbreak throughout her life. Brilliantly observed.

This exquisitely written book displayed the heartbreaking reality of what it is like to love someone with mental illness. It is about Catherine, a mother of two daughters, who loved and lived in extremes. There are three parts to this book. Part one is Violaine talking about what it was like having a mother, or “maman” as they called her, like Catherine. Maman ended up in a psychiatric hospital due to her manic depressive disorder. Part two of this book documents Catherine’s life, before she was a mother. The book shows all the gruesome and traumatizing events Catherine experienced. It gave us a glimpse of the turmoil that she was continuously faced with. The third part goes back to Violaine and her sister dealing with the aftermath of Catherine’s death. This book did an amazing job at showing the turbulent relationship between ill mother and daughter who is only trying to please. It captures what it means to have unconditional love for a parent in a way that i’ve never seen done before, but it’s so realistic and heart aching. Both Violaine and Catherine’s stories were fully fleshed out and truly allowed you to see the hurt and the experience on both sides. This story is a raw look at what it is to love unconditionally despite the harsh realities of mental illness and trauma. if you wanna read this book just know there is some triggering content so check tw and read with caution.

I have a soft spot for any and all literature on mother-daughter relationships, so I knew I had to read this novel -- and quite honestly, I was pleasantly surprised. Violaine writes about her mother with so much verve and compassion. You are deeply invested in Catherine's larger-than-life persona because of the way the novel is structured. Resonate, dramatic autofiction at its most promising.

3.75 ⭐️ Trauma after trauma after trauma. Enjoyed this relatively well, though at some point the writing and plot just became somewhat repetitive.

pls don’t ask me how long it took to finish this… thought-provoking read on mental illness and the burden of motherhood!! (classic beth reading interests!)

Update: moved it to 4 star 3.5 maybe 4; Catherine, a mother, with childhood trauma and lifelong mental illness tries to raise her two daughters Elsa and Violaine despite wanting to die at any minute. it is heartbreaking to hear life story and to see how her behavior affects the way she raised her children and the way they do everything to make sure she stays alive for just one more day. We are there with her through every solemn dark mood, and every upbeat adventurous upbeat mood. Unfortunately these are the things that manage to destroy all her relationships with everyone except her daughters.

4.5 French authors seem to do the utmost in slim novels. I loved this. The writing is stark but moving, I was mesmerized by one liners throughout - "Maman and my sister loved each other like wild things, they would have killed each other in order to prove it." "She smoked like a chimney, and the expression suited her, I thought, because she was also our hearth." "We had to do the impossible, but my sister and I were capable of that; nothing was impossible where Maman was concerned, except for saving her." The characters are richly and vividly drawn, and you can feel the manic and depressiveness the mother goes through. The story is laid out in three parts, first from the youngest daughters POV, then an overlook of the mothers life, and back to the youngest daughter to wrap up, and it was perfect way to look at the lives. I especially liked how I had a completely different view of the father from section one then in section two.

Eurotrash begins like a road trip through the detritus of privilege—chaotic, indulgent, and not entirely sure of its own destination. The satire is there, but early on it feels like the novel is circling itself, rehearsing its own myth rather than cutting into anything fresh. Then the journey deepens, and suddenly the book sharpens into something darker, funnier, and more unsettling. The second half has teeth: the absurdity tightens, the confessional tone grows more dangerous, and the satire finally lands with precision. It’s as if the novel sobers up halfway through and decides to show you the real wreckage beneath the performance. The result is a work that’s uneven but rewarding, a novel that tests your patience before paying it off with sharper wit and more resonant bite. Kracht’s blend of self mockery and cultural critique makes Eurotrash both maddening and magnetic—an indulgent ride that, by the end, feels worth the ticket.

Booker Prize longlist 2025. And I can see why it might have made the list! With that title, Eurotrash (2021) you expect a kinda punk vibe, maybe, and sure enough, in the opening of this auto-fictional story, Christian trashes his Swiss bourgeois family that became mega-wealthy during the Nazi regime, through munitions manufacturing. So much for that famous Swiss neutrality. Christian visits his mother, an alcoholic, drug-addicted woman in her early eighties who has been in and out of mental hospitals. It's her father who was the Swiss Nazi collaborator. But they have lived very very well since the war. Deliciously trashy, this story early on vilifies the author's family war profiteers, rich but his Mom is in steady decline. And of course Christian (now well into middle age) has been on the outs with Mom for years. And then they decide to go on a road trip. What can go wrong? I am told the first volume of this story, Faserland (1995) also involved travel. Then we see them fight brutally and entertainingly until a key moment: Mom decides to give a fortune away in penitence for the family sins, stuffing a garbage bag full of bills. Of course this is not fundamentally righting the capitalist/corrupt ship they have been on (they do not become Saint Robin Hood, suddenly, this is just craziness, and they are still both arrogant snobs in some ways), but it is an engaging goal, met by some interesting moments. So the story turns--I'll say little here on out--funny and even charming, in moments. I liked it quite a bit. It has lyrical passages and some terrific dialogue. Mom is especially an engaging, terrific "character" (I mean, it is supposed to be his actual mom),. And late in the book, Christian has an idea: Maybe he could write a book about this trip! “That’d be really boring,” she said. “Who’d be interested in that? A story where absolutely nothing happens, except that an old woman occasionally argues with her son.” And Christian agrees, at that moment. Then, here we are. It's a pretty short book, actually, and will not win the Booker, but just getting to this level is basically winning.

Daniel Kehlmann says it very well on the back cover: 'Christian Kracht is a master of the well-formed sentence, the elegance of which conceals horror.' In this short and slippery novel, the author Christian Kracht reckons with his family's horrible past in the form of a mad road trip through Switzerland with his aging, alcohol and drug addicted mother. The family is extremely wealthy (but the money of dubious provenance) and Christian's idea is to give some of it away. It is humorous in its unsparing criticisms (of his family, of the Swiss), but it also lets the reader work to find out the deeper meaning (and traumas) behind the apparently superficial. It made quite an impression on me. The style (and also the subject matter) reminded me a lot of Dutch author Ilja Leonard Pfeijffer. I will definitely be reading more Christian Kracht.

‘O’ (or ordinary) and ‘A’ (or advanced) Levels were UK exams taken respectively by sixteen and eighteen-year-olds many moons ago, chosen from a vast range of subjects. Roughly equivalent to the US SATs, they're now a part of history and my curriculum vitae. Mathematics, French, English Language, and English Literature were compulsory. Within Literature, one had to choose two novels to regale the examiners with one’s knowledge and belletrism. One from Animal Farm, 1984, Cider With Rosie, probably A Room With a View, maybe Thomas Hardy, and others that I’ve forgotten, was compulsory; the other, if you wanted, was your own choice. I suppose I might have chosen "The Intimate Diary of Linda Lovelace”, published the previous year, and this would probably have been acceptable, had one written perceptively about the issues and implications attendant with the porn industry in the 70s. However, the memoir would probably have been beyond a sixteen-year-old to concentrate on the ethical implications of the content without being sidetracked by its salaciousness. Notwithstanding that, how would I have got hold of this little gem, or explained to my parents the educational value of not just reading it, but rereading it more than once? It might have been a problem. So, I chose “Travels With My Aunt” by Graham Greene. I say this because “Eurotrash”, by Christian Kracht, has sometimes been likened to this entertainment novel, as Greene labelled his more lighthearted writing. Although my recollection of “Travels With My Aunt” is distant, I can appreciate the similarity. That said, “Eurotrash”, though at times sardonically witty, entertaining, and sentimental, is also melancholic, disturbing, and brooding on uncomfortable epiphanies regarding a familial past. Though Kracht sets diversions to distance himself from Christian's experiences, they're undoubtedly his; this is semi-autobiographical autofiction, focusing on Kracht’s Germanic past, his family's dubious political affiliations, and the multi-million wealth accumulated by morally suspect investments during the period of National Socialism. As his nonagenarian, chronically sick, senile, and perpetually inebriated mother reaches the end of her life, she demands to be taken on a trip to Africa to give away the family fortune to expunge her guilt, the continent's mishaps and contortions a metaphor for the family's perfidious past. Christian ignores the metaphor, navigating a less arduous road trip around Switzerland. Here he comes to terms with the uncomfortable truths about his family as the two of them stumble from one cathartic, naïve, charitable mishap to another, attempting to rid themselves of their ill-gotten gains and their incumbent infamy. From the ivory tower of a taxi, hired for a fortune to undertake the grand tour, their ineptitude reveals a gauche misunderstanding about how less privileged people live. Henry Pulling, the mild-mannered protagonist in Greene's novel, initially chafes against his aunt, the matriarchal anti-hero, who champions broadening horizons through action and adventure, but eventually is fully taken in by her amoral lifestyle. Likewise, we come to learn of Christian's initial antipathy towards his eccentric mother, before the road trip allows him to see the complex mix of emotions he has towards her, and the sentimental reality of their relationship. Unlike the slapstick ending of “Travels With My Aunt”, "Eurotrash" has a more nuanced finale; Christian finds catharsis, allowing him to come to terms with his family's past and his mother's aberrant behaviour. It's an undramatic but poignant ending, Christian realizing both he and his mother were an unwilling part of an uncomfortable ancestral history of disingenuousness, mendacity, and perfidiousness that had left them morally disadvantaged and compromised. At times, this is a discomforting read, yet delivered with endearing honesty and sympathy. Longlisted, "Eurotrash" can't have been far away from winning the International Booker Prize this year.

Publishing a sequel to an untranslated predecessor is a bold choice, and I'm in two minds about it. I quite liked Eurotrash, but it feels very much like a book you're dropped in the middle of without the necessary context. There's an onslaught of backstory, historical events, and pop culture references that largely went over my head. The book picks up in earnest at the start of Christian's road trip with his mother, and from there it's a much more linear and enjoyable read. Kracht teeters on the line between absurdity and criticism very well. Both Christian and his mother are delectably unhinged and vibrant -- they're teeming with stories about their lives among the upper class and are encumbered by problems that feel both pointless and all-consuming. They have just enough self-awareness to dissect their complicated family history and the wealth they've inherited, but their futile attempts to make amends for it are comically awful. At least the cab driver made it out ahead. Kracht manages to produce a very tongue-in-cheek, darkly comedic book that doesn't lessen the emotional blow of the ending. I felt a little disoriented by the entire book, but not in a way I disliked. I'd be very curious to see how this reads following Faserland, but we can only hope it gets an English translation soon!

Still trying to process how I felt about this one, but I’ll say that the final chapter is what gave it an edge. Absurdist yet moving. Also, love how meta this novel is. And it’s funny/confidential that the narrator (the author himself) seems to be insecure about the writer Daniel Kehlmann, who is the writer of a book I’m also currently reading TYLL —that was a bit surreal for me. I’m assuming there’s a bit of (friendly, hopefully) rivalry between the two writers.

In a follow-up to the author’s 1995 book, Faserland, the narrator of Eurotrash is the fictional author of the former book and his name also happens to be Christian Kracht. It’s all a bit meta and autofictional. Unfortunately, Faserland has yet to be translated to English so I had to jump right in with the “sequel”. Though I’m sure having the additional context that comes from reading Faserland would have enhanced my reading experience, I didn’t feel it suffered too much. I really enjoyed this book. The majority of the book features Christian and his elderly alcoholic and drugged up mother embarking on a road trip where they give away, squander, waste, however you want to put it, a portion of his mother’s tainted wealth—Christian’s maternal grandfather was a proud and loyal member of the Nazi party. Interspersed throughout the shenanigans of their trip are the narrator’s digressions into topics like class and the elite, his reckoning with the silence that has pervaded his family’s history, the similar traumas suffered by both him and his mother, contemplations on the unreliability of memory, and intertextual references. The absolute best parts of the book, however, were the interactions between Christian and his mother. The dialogue between the two of them was absolutely hilarious, alternating as it did between tenderness and hostility. It was a riot. A compelling and wild ride.

Kracht is a bit hit and miss for me. As I like to say: He's not my guy. Surprisingly, after not really feeling Faserland, Eurotrash really worked for me. While the character is still a vexierbild (you know, a picture you can't pin down to show just one thing) - the fictional author of a fictional first-person novel Kracht actually wrote (Faserland) - his travels with his mother gave the novel some much-needed grounding. I found the themes much more poignant than in Faserland, especially the confrontation with Nazism is much more concrete and believable. Yes, everything is still exaggerated, no, Kracht will never stop writing about the rich and crazy, but Eurotrash shows everything that makes Kracht an exciting writer: Offbeat, against the German literary mainstream, irreverent, darkly funny, often stupid. I like that for the international booker - even if after Erpenbeck's win last year there is no chance of them rewarding another German-speaking writer.

Blimey what a rollercoaster. Dark, funny, odd, bleak, absurd. Autofictiony Ben Lerner vibes with the history, family, trauma, writing, masculinity interest.

Look the ending was really cheesy and cheapened an otherwise spectacular book, but still this was so much better than I expected!!! I’m impressed! It moved me, it made me laugh, it was smart, it was delicate, it was refreshing. May upgrade to 5 stars but let me think about it.

‘Do you think our lives would look like this if our plans always worked out?’ Young adulthood is a tumultuous time juggling part-time jobs and relationships—neither of which tend to last long—along with school, family, and all the traumas from these that the adult mind is finally starting to unpack. Love in the Big City by Sang Young Park is both comedic and desolating as it explores all these ideas from the mind of a young, queer man living in Seoul. Beautifully translated by Anton Hur (they also translated Cursed Bunny by Bora Chung), this book is bubbling over with personality and the charming prose and excellent dialogue will propel these introspective stories right into your heart. Love in the Big City feels deeply personal and autobiographical, with the narrator (called both Mr. Young or Mr. Park at various times) being a semi-successful short story writer who’s stories of sexual escapades and rough living in the Korean queer scene were awarded for their ‘objective self-judgement,’ which very much describes the honest and upfront narration here. Across four parts, each with their own internal thematic arc, Love in the Big City explores the many different kinds of love one feels, as well as their successes and failures as Sang Young Park delivers a moving account of young life and the difficulties of being a queer man in a world still rife with homophobia. ‘But is love truly beautiful?’ the narrator asks themselves midway through the novel. They have experienced the highs and lows of many types of love and sometimes things just don’t feel optimistic. The young student narrator tends towards quick flings, spending each night with a different man as he and his best-friend, Jaehea, live their early twenties in a hazy bliss of alcohol and strangers beds. ‘My devil, my savior, my Jaehee,’ he muses as he chronicles in hilarious detail their tight-knit friendship with this quirky young woman who once steals a medical model from a hospital when denied an abortion, who keeps her Marlboro cigarettes in the freezer, who is the ‘backup drive of my love life’, but when she eventually marries and moves out of his life, Young begins to feel unmoored. He lives with his mother, with whom he has a fraught relationship and must care for as she undergoes cancer treatment for the second time and has a tragic relationship with an older man. Love, at many times in this novel, does not feel beautiful. And yet the heartbreak often seems part of the beauty, particularly later on. The difficulty of love, it seems, is a world that refuses to allow the LGBT community to live life on their own terms. Even his older boyfriend, a former student activist who frequently chastises him for wearing brands that bear the flags of Western imperialist nations (he reprimands Young for having bedsheets with a Union Jack on the tag, and it is interesting how, along with Gyu-ho’s mattress later in the book, there is always some sort of tension about a partners bed functioning as a metaphor for the difficulties of relationships), has internalized homophobia and an search history full of articles denouncing a queer lifestyle. Young himself faced ‘forced hospitalization’ by his mother when she discovered him kissing a man and has never accepted his queerness, something that haunts their relationship forever as he only wishes she would apologize. ’suddenly felt that I was owed an apology. From whom? The idiots who blamed homosexuality for every stupid thing? Or the specific idiot next to me for smothering himself in that bullshit and being unable to accept himself for who he was? Or the other idiot who fell for the first idiot, even when he knew the first idiot was an idiot, who fell for him so hard he dug through his computer to know everything there was to possibly know about him? Maybe I was owed an apology from all of the above. Or maybe from none of them.’ It is a complex identity, and he grapples with what it means to be a queer Korean man while being the ‘by-product of American imperialism and Western capitalism that I was,’ and how anyone can love and live in a world dominated by money and success. Frequently in the novel we find characters that are struggling with denial of their own conditions, such as the older, self-hating boyfriend who views homosexuality as an ‘evil colonial practice of the American Empire,’ or the mother that won’t accept the severity of her cancer diagnosis. Similarly, much of the book revolves around issues of if being publicly “out” is accepted or safe, as are other aspects of young life that are deemed taboo. When living with Jaehee, she tells everyone her roommate is a shy woman. ‘In those days, we learned a little bit about what it was like to live as other people. Jaehee learned that living as a gay was sometimes truly shitty, and I learned that living as a woman wasn’t much better. And our conversations always ended with the same question. -Why were we born this way? -Who knows?’ When a lover lingers long enough in her life to notice something is amiss and Young is found out, even the fact that he is a gay man isn’t enough to quell the notion that a woman living unmarried with a man is shameful. The boyfriend allows it to continue but frequently plays the martyr stating that ‘other men’ wouldn’t allow it. In contrast to Young and his group of club-going friends, dubbed the T-aras after the South Korean all woman musical group, we see his older boyfriend being unable to allow public affection in fear of being outed. Other stigmas, such as HIV, come up in the novel such as when Young has to submit a blood test for a job and his condition becomes something that is career-prospect stifling as well as socially. While the novel shows a thriving LGBTQ+ community in Seoul, this is with the knowledge that there are no legal protections against discrimination due to gender identity or sexuality in housing in South Korea, and gay marriage has yet to be legalized. ‘An excess of self-awareness was a disease in itself.’ All these social and identity issues play out across the four stories taking Young from his early 20s to early 30s and across multiple relationships. As Sang Young Park mentions in the afterword, ‘”Young,” who narrates the four stories in this book, is simultaneously the same person and different people.’ He explains that the book ‘leans on the past, both on my own personal history and that of many people around me,’ and explains that the author’s voice is not necessarily the same as the author and that we change in different stages of life. This opens up some excellent autofiction territory for the book, and we see the snarky and self-aware Young from many different angles in many different situations. ‘Life had always been eager to fail my expectations, no matter how low I set them.’ A narrative aspect I found to work particularly well is that some events will be briefly mentioned in one story only to be examined at length in a later one. The vacation Young takes with his boyfriend, Gyu-ho, for example, is glossed over in the section about their relationship but the memories of it come flooding back a year later when he is staying in the same hotel on a hook-up with an older business man after their break-up. The authentic remorse where a time and place doesn’t take on a deep emotional resonance until examining it in retrospect was quite impactful and colored the final section of the novel with a somber beauty. ‘That is how my memories of him are preserved under glass,’ he thinks, ‘safe and pristine, forever apart from me.’ The end has a bit of a self-sacrificial feel to it. ‘When you try to have too much, you’re bound to stumble at some point,’ he reflects, and there is remorse for the ways of the world that lead to these stumbles, while also accepting his own hand in having gotten there as well. ‘Bitterness,’ he thinks, ‘my favorite taste in the world.’ It’s a very self-aware and moving novel, and while much of it is quite funny there is also a pervasive melancholia weighing on the tone. ‘I used to feel like I’d been given the whole world when I held him. Like I was holding the whole universe.’ There are some beautiful passages here though, particularly about love. And that is what this book nails so well: that love is both bitter and beautiful and that love comes in many forms. Platonic love, familial love, and self-love as well as romantic love. This novel reads very quickly and the prose and dialogue is very infectious, wonderfully rendered into English by Anton Hur. Love in the Big City is sharp, smart, wickedly funny and it will break your heart and make you glad for it. Is love truly beautiful, he asks and the answer is a bittersweet ‘yes.’ 4.5/5 ‘I tasted something on his lips that I had never tasted before. The fishy, chewy taste of rockfish. Maybe the taste of the universe.’

Translated from Korean to English, Love in the Big City follows Young, a millennial, as he navigates life’s ups and downs. Comprised of four sections, each one narrates a different period in Young’s life. The first section focuses on the boozy fun that Young and his best friend Jaehee get up to while at university. The duo party, go to class, meetup with men they matched with on dating sites. That is until Jaehee announces she is getting married. Now, Young must adjust to life without his best friend constantly by his side. In the other sections, Young comes to terms with his sexuality, a medical diagnosis, his mother, and past trauma. Love in the Big City is a coming-of-age, character-driven story. The sections that focused on Young’s life in his early thirties were the most interesting to me. Some parts were laugh-out-loud funny, while others were somewhat depressing. The author and translator perfectly capture what it’s like for millennials in their twenties and thirties, from hard-partying ways to job uncertainty to trying to settle down. If any more of Sang Young Park’s books get translated into English, I will definitely give them a read. Thank you to Grove Press for the arc via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. https://booksandwheels.com

3.5 stars. A novel in stories about a young gay man in South Korea that linger in romance and melancholy. The book is broken up into four sections, they're not in chronological order, and sometimes they bleed into each other. We start with Young's friendship with Jaehee, they're both misfits of a sort and she's the only one who doesn't seem to care about his sexuality. It is both a supportive and a little bit destructive, as relationships in your early 20's can be. The three other sections are mostly about Young's lovers and boyfriends, though there's also a lot caring for his mother, who's dying of cancer. Young knows who he is and is frank about it, though he does suffer from some internalized homophobia. When he's younger he worries about being read as gay, though as he gets older he tends to be the more open one in his relationships. This isn't really a book about finding lasting love, but we do get to see the different ways Young views his relationships, from incredibly romanticized to more detached. As I usually do for queer readers, I want to note that this is mild in terms of "queer suffering." This is set in a place where there is still a lot of hostility towards gay people, and while Young doesn't run into any physical violence or even any real harassment, there is a lot of fear that he and others have in how they get through their daily lives. It isn't very severe in terms of what happens, but it is a thread that is almost always there. One thing I particularly liked, though, is the frankness about STI's, which are an important plot point in one section. After Young tests positive for an STI (it's viral and treatment is lifelong which suggests something like HIV) he names it "Kylie" and is often thinking about it in terms of how it will impact his life and his relationships. He is also not at all melodramatic about it, just practical, which is what happens to most people and yet it's rarely depicted in fiction.

Love in the Big City is a sharp, raw, and emotionally intelligent novel that captures queer life, friendship, and loneliness in contemporary Seoul with remarkable honesty. Park Sang Young writes with a voice that feels intimate and unsanitized, refusing to romanticize youth, sex, or rebellion. Instead, he presents them as coping mechanisms—sometimes joyful, often hollow, always human. At its core, this book is not really about romance but about survival. The most compelling relationship in the novel is not between lovers but between the narrator and Jaehee, whose friendship becomes a substitute for family, stability, and unconditional care. Their bond—messy, loyal, occasionally hurtful—feels far more authentic than the fleeting romantic connections that pass through the narrator’s life. In that sense, the novel quietly argues that friendship can be the most radical form of love. Park’s portrayal of casual sex, alcohol, and emotional detachment is especially effective because it never turns moralistic. The characters are not punished for their choices, nor are they glamorized for them. Instead, the book shows how intimacy is shaped by social pressure, gender norms, and fear—particularly within queer relationships where desire often exists without safety or permanence. The novel’s greatest strength lies in its social awareness. The abortion subplot, the depiction of medical misogyny, and the constant undercurrent of shame surrounding queer bodies are handled with controlled anger rather than melodrama. These moments land hard precisely because they are treated as ordinary, systemic, and exhausting—not exceptional tragedies. That said, the book can feel emotionally repetitive at times. The narrator’s cycles of drinking, sex, and disappointment occasionally blur together, and some readers may wish for deeper variation in the romantic storylines. Additionally, the narrator’s self-awareness does not always lead to growth, which can feel frustrating—even if that stagnation is thematically intentional. Still, Love in the Big City succeeds because it feels true. It understands that adulthood does not arrive with closure, that healing is uneven, and that some people simply learn how to endure better than others. It’s a novel about outgrowing chaos without ever fully escaping it—and about the quiet grief of realizing that even the most important relationships change. Rating: 4/5 Honest, unsentimental, and deeply observant—this is a novel that lingers not because it comforts, but because it understands.

Love in the Big City is both a story specifically about the queer scene in Seoul, and broadly about looking for love in the wrong places. For me, it landed pretty well on both counts. Told in a series of vignettes, Park’s story took me right into an unfamiliar world, all while presenting me with interactions and feelings that resonated in their universality. In the end it wasn’t necessarily the ‘love’ that really captured me, instead the moments of missed connection and feeling unseen in even the most intimate of spaces.

“In those days, we learned a little bit about what it was like to live as other people. Jaehee learned that living as a gay was sometimes truly shitty, and I learned that living as a woman wasn’t much better. And our conversations always ended with the same question: —Why were we born this way? —Who knows? “ I wanted to read this book mostly because i want to watch the movie adaptation featuring Nam Yoon Su (who got pretty much bad comments at his social media because his fans didn’t like to see him play in BL - Boys Love kdrama) This book felt honest and real and not sugarcoating the life of gay people in South Korea, it was a slow life story span through years about the male protagonist (who i don’t remember the name cause i think it rarely mentioned through the story) and how dark and sad human relationship is, not only romance but also friendship and family relationship. It was not a happy book more like a depressing book but i cannot stop reading this, there is something so alluring about the whole story maybe because of the story felt deep and like i said in the beginning … honest, it makes the whole story felt relateable to me somehow There are some sensitive issues (TW) in this book like homophobic and abortion so proceed with caution if you want to read it It was written in past present timeline so it was a bit confusing sometimes and i wish i can get a better ending but then by the tone of the book, i guess the ending felt realistic and i can accept it.

A debut novel that takes place in Seoul, Korea following a gay man named Young in his 20s & 30s. This book details Young’s life from when he’s a student with a best friend/roommate named Jaehee to his first love and heartbreak to becoming his mothers caretaker after she has fallen i’ll. This book does an amazing job at characterizing Young. He is a fully fleshed out individual that you are rooting for the entire time, this is probably because Young is a fictionalized version of the author himself. This shows the queer experience in such an intricate and realistic way, no sugar coating or romanticizing. i read this book for the international booker, when the longlist was released. unfortunately it did not move on to the short list, but this has been one of my favorites that i’ve read so far from that list, so it is shortlisted in my heart.

You know when you've read something so bloody good that when you've reached the final page, you felt like going back to the first page to start all over again. And love in the big city is all that and more. It gives a feeling of loss, hope, love and life, going through its harsh and unprovoked realities - in the way that is a story told from the perspectives of youths in its rawest form. Raw. That's what I would say with this book, and it still leaves a lingering feeling even after finishing it. (Disclaimers: This book handles topics on the narrator going through HIV. If this is not your cup of tea, its okay to skip this :) ) 'Because, whatever it was or wasn't, you were you." A story that I felt was mundane. Its in the beauty of the raw form of humans - in the times of youth that were confusing, in the times of vulnerability and the dynamics of Asian parenting, and its on life. In the most messiest forms - its life. Reading this, does remind me a lot with Sally Rooney's books. The straightforward and almost nonchalant tone, whilst capturing the essence of emotions of the characters in the storytelling - its definitely a similarity between the two. And I like how mundane it is, and how very queer it is. The book is divided into four big parts - in which we go through with the narrator, the stages of his life. And we get on adult friendships, mother-son complex relationships, caretaker , and most of all, the daily lives of a man in a city, living through his life. I like how straightforward the writing is, and how its both funny and sad at the same time. I could laugh at one page and cry at the very next so that's how much of an emotional coaster ride this book had gotten me. Its truly an experience on its own. Out of all the things from the book, what I felt was in how raw everything is. Humans are messy. They make mistakes. They will fail and fall. But they will also form meaningful relationships that will stay. Love that is irreplaceable but may not be yours to keep. But its mostly on the exploration of self- and how we grow from all of the things we went through in life. And the hardships in having a condition that could never really go away. Mistakes , failures and heartbreaks, but also happiness and strength. By means, this book is not perfect, but its a depiction that is true to life. And what the author said in his notes had what made this book for me one of those I will remember for a very long time. "I know all too well how this emotion called love, how the word itself, can crumble into nothing, but all I can do is tightly grip this tiny bit of warmth and embrace it with all my might. Just so I can live on as myself. Just so I can live this life as myself and myself alone." 4.5🌟 for this one.

Dev Hendrick lives alone in an isolated cottage on the outskirts of a County Mayo town. He's unemployed and struggling with his mental health since the death of his mother. Financially speaking, he gets by on an allowance for babysitting drugs dealt by his cousins shady Gabe and Sketch Ferdia. One weekend they rock up to his house with a teenage boy by the name of Doll English, who is less than pleased to be there. Doll's older brother Cillian owes them money - they give him until Monday to pay the ransom. At night Doll is tied up in the basement, a situation Dev is increasingly uneasy about. The only person who appears to be on Doll's side is his girlfriend Nicky, even though she finds herself questioning the value of their relationship. The tension mounts as Monday approaches... Wild Houses is Colin Barrett's first novel after two well-received short story collections. I was a particular fan of Young Skins and his latest book follows that winning formula. It examines the fortunes of those existing on the margins in rural Ireland - small-time criminals who do what they can to make a living and survive. The characters are adrift, searching for meaning, unhappy with their lot. The story captures the hopelessness that can often exist in such communities: a sense of feeling trapped, which makes for a bleak but authentic reading experience. If I have one small criticism it's the dialogue didn't always ring true - these hoodlums are a bit too eloquent if you ask me. However, this is a well-crafted, gritty and compelling tale from a writer that is really going places.

the main event of ‘wild houses’ centres around a teenage boy who is kidnapped and held hostage when he gets caught up in his brother’s dispute with small-town drug dealers. it’s a quiet literary thriller, with tension so perfectly balanced that it feels like a slow-burn even while the plot races along. the novel is deftly-written and hauntingly atmospheric, zooming in on the ravages of rural poverty and the desperation of small-town crime. it’s also a moving exploration of grief and loneliness, of those who feel like they are on the periphery of life, forever destined to be outsiders. this is colin barrett’s first novel and the first work of his i’ve read, but i really enjoyed this and i know he is very lauded so i’ll be picking up his short story collections next.

Sparse. That’s the word that comes to mind when I think back on this book. I think it’s primarily due to the prose and the author’s ability to somehow make extreme situations feel mundane and casual. There’s an expert reflection of everyday life and the way different people cope with the struggle that some feel in just making it to the next day. How? Why? What’s on the other side? These questions are all raised within the minds of some of the protagonists and it made the book very relatable for me as I think a lot of us go through periods when we are plagued by these questions. There was also something with light. Its reflections, presence, ability to temporarily morph objects through human eyes, and with so much talk of light it was impossible not to think of its opposite, the dark. A character walking home provides an opportunity for lines like, “The unyielding yellow glare of the street lights deepened the shadows and made the shuttered shopfronts and abandoned streets look not just empty but skeletally exposed, like furniture with its upholstery ripped away.” A character walking through a parking lot, “Every time he turned his head to look the light tricked away and he saw that the inside of each car was as dark and empty as a cave.” This to me captures the essence of this book. The author makes it feel as though the human experience is being x-rayed and we are left looking at the black and white image trying to make sense of our lot in life.

4,5 I had a great time with this, a real pleasure to read. Very convincing writing, lively characters and a good, suspenseful plot centered around a kidnapping by small-time criminals in Western Ireland. Slightly disappointed by the ending though...

(Book 7 of my Journey through the booker prize longlist ) 4 ⭐️ When I saw that the booker prize longlist came out I decided to challenge myself to read as much as I can before the shortlist was decided, I find it so exciting to be able to try and predict the winner, so far it has been a very interesting journey, reading a couple 5 stars and one DNF, this personal challenge is proving so fruitful. Narrowing this down to a shortlist is going to be difficult… I am not envious of the judges. Picking up my next potential favourite… along came Wild Houses. A really immersive, short and beautifully written debut novel. Revolving around a drug deal that has gone wrong, a subsequent kidnapping & a look into the rural life of a small town community. Captured over the span of a few days we follow a few different characters, from Donal "Doll" English, the boy who was kidnapped due to his older brother Cillian's mistakes, as he lost a large quantity of drugs. I really enjoyed the gritty prose and immersive writing style, flying through this in the span of a couple days, my personal favourite character being Dev, a boy who was written with such realism and nuance. A great representation of mental health. Only reason I didn't rate this 5 stars is due to the ending, I felt like the initial grittiness and pacing died down a little by the last pages and I was just craving more out of it.

A really good debut novel longlisted for the 2024 Booker Prize. Set in a small town in County Mayo, the story follows the lives of a young couple who find themselves in a severe predicament due to no fault of their own. Having to find a way to help her boyfriend, Nicky finds herself on the wrong side of the law and questioning her relationship with him and his less than law abiding family. The novel is about small town living, dysfunctional families, the presence of petty crime which rapidly escalates into something more dangerous, and the consequences of childhood abuse and bullying on adults in later life. The main characters are very strongly written and it is easy to empathise with them, even when they seem to be making the wrong decisions. There is some excellent writing to note; especially to highlight the thought processes of Dev, a particularly vulnerable character in the book. The following paragraph provides a fascinating insight into how he manages his panic attacks by focusing on the mundane: 'He thought about how, when it came down to it, you were a kind of janitor or superintendent of your body, responsible only for its sanitation and presentation. You fuelled it and disposed of its waste, showered it, dressed it. You brushed its hair and you cut its nails. But you could choose not to do these things and your body, regardless of your neglect, would simply carry on for as long as it could'. Good read by a talented new author with, hopefully, many more books in the pipeline.

It's hard for me to describe what I found so appealing about this slim Irish novel. You can't say that the stories of the characters were uplifting or that their experiences made them wiser. But, as in real life, you can say that they all gained new insights into themselves, while also learning that life would offer difficult choices that would require even more difficult choices. The primary character is Dev Hendricks, a hulking young man who lives by himself in the home he once shared with his mother and his mentally ill father. One day, Dev opens the door to find that the Ferdia brothers, Gabe and Slate, have shown up with a young man they have kidnapped, and that they plan to use Dev's home as a holding pen. It's part of a long-running dispute their minor criminal boss in the northwest of Ireland has had with the family of the kidnapped man. From then on, the plot revolves around what will happen to Doll English, the kidnapped man, and to Dev, to the Ferdias and to the other main characters. I can't give away the details without spoiler alerts, but suffice to say that it doesn't turn out as an unmitigated disaster, and it also doesn't turn out as a story of hope and light. Instead, characters find their way through a tense situation, there is pain and brutality and some humor along the way, and their futures are uncertain, but they all gain some wisdom in the process. One other point: the writing is simply beautiful. It's economical and plain-spoken, but filled with lovely turns of phrase. This was well worth its placement on the Booker Prize longlist.

The Banshees of Inisherin meets Fargo. An excellent slow burn character study that mediates on themes of corruption, isolation and love. Colin Barrett is a master in dialogue and prose — from his wickedly raw characters to the scenic yet sinister landscape of County Mayo.

3.5 rounded up Despite suggestions otherwise, this is not a crime fiction novel that snuck genre onto the Booker Prize longlist. WILD HOUSES is more a character study of those living among crime, interacting with criminals, having their lives shaped by an underworld milieu irrespective of their participation. Deep in Western Ireland, a double cross leads to a gang of no-goods kidnapping the hapless brother of their betrayer, taking up the house of another peripheral figure as their hideout, while trying to get some of their lost monies back. But the story is not told through their eyes, but through the thoughts of the brother’s girlfriend and the house’s owner, two individuals caught in between waring parties, whose mistakes and misjudgments have left them in the path of danger and violence. This was a well told story and the audiobook narration quite good. I felt invested in the lives of the two central narrations. However, I also didn’t feel anything new or bold was being done. This was a solid but ho-hum kind of novel, but I have higher expectations when it comes to Booker novels. I don’t see this making the shortlist.

Wow. This was awesome. So mesmerising. It really captured the essence of how one might feel trapped or the feeling of hopelessness in your hometown. The relationships between the characters were true to life filled with nuances of pure human nature. Very gritty. I've rated it 4 stars instead of 5 only because I thought the ending could've been just as gritty as those final scenes but I won't spoil it for you. This is a brilliant book for a book club - incredible amount and depth of topics to discuss.

Solid, had a cinematic quality to but make it indie, wonderful character work

Wild Houses is the debut novel of Colin Barrett, a prize-winning short story writer. It is novel about drugs, violence, alienation, and a kidnapping in rural western Ireland. I found it enormously sad. The novel is told from alternating POVs. There is Dev, a veritable giant of a man, who is weak, introspective and afflicted with anxiety and depression. He has a good heart but has trouble standing up to people. And there is Nicky, the 17-year-old girlfriend of Doll, the boy who was kidnapped. She is smart and intelligent and probably won’t be staying in Ballina, the small Irish town where much of the story takes place. Though Dev and Nicky don’t know each other, they are two outsiders in Ballina. One is probably stuck there; one will probably leave. I thought this novel was very, very well written. Individual sentences say exactly what they need to say, and nothing more. There is some dialect in the novel, but it is easily understood. But I had trouble getting into the story and identifying with the characters. However, by about half-way through the book, I was hooked and didn’t want to put it down. By the end of the novel, I was emotionally connected to the characters, but the novel ends without any hint of what the future holds for Dev, Nicky, and Doll. I wish we could see their lives in five years’ time. I hope they are happy and settled wherever they might be. Easy 4 stars. When I reread it, I might rate it higher.

I found this to be an immersive read, even though I couldn't quite tell you what Colin Barrett would like his readers to take away from it. The novel follows two characters on the periphery of drug dealing gone wrong. I found Dev in particular to be hugely compelling. The geography of the small Irish town of Ballina, from the countryside to the local pub, is depicted in believable, gritty depth.

This was a joy to read - the plot (around a kidnapping in County Mayo) not really providing the main energy here, but the poetic concision of his style that allows us to see into the interior world of his characters. One example: "...He was touching forty but looked ten years older again, with a face on him like a vandalised church, long and angular and pitted, eyes glinting deep in their sockets like smashed-out windows." The dialogue too is spot on, as characters navigate the violent pitfalls of their situation,often with dark humour. Great debut novel, from an acclaimed short story writer.

Love Colin Barrett as a story writer and now can confirm I love him as a novelist too. He just paints such a picture, such an Irish picture, and really takes the time to lay the groundwork to have you so completely invested in his characters. He scratches the same itch for me as Thomas Savage but in a completely different world. Just really lovely writing with some real gut punch moments, especially with dear Dev, whom I love.

I wanted to read something based in Ireland for St. Patrick's day. It painted a vivid picture of a bunch of misfits and kept me on the edge of my seat. I like the ending but almost need to know more.

** spoiler alert ** The Irish certainly are a miserable people if one judges by their literature! This one is a good character study with some interesting characters and lots of good dialogue and colourful language, e.g. "I'd rather pick sweetcorn out of baby's shit for a living". Why did no one even consider involving the police? Maybe an Irish person can explain that one to me! Though it does seem consistent with other fiction and cinema I've seen lately. Excellent audiobook performance.

After Sappho is a story of women and womanhood, a story of creativity, freedom, and excellence. This is scholar Selby Wynn Schwartz’s debut work of fiction, published by the excellent Galley Beggar Press. Schwartz traces the lives of European women in the Sapphic tradition who pushed against boundaries and laid the groundwork for liberation on their own terms. Many of these women are unsung, at least in our male-dominated society, although they are hardly obscure. Schwartz’s focus is unapologetically Euro-centric and covers the roughly 50-year period from the 1870s to the 1920s. Others have noted where writers of color seem to have been excised from the record, with Schwartz focusing instead on white woman who are already part of the canon. Despite that limited focus, I appreciate Schwartz's willingness to play with form and sit at the intersection of genres.

After Sappho is a sapphic historical fiction, which involves many women and is told in cascading vignettes. The book begins with three women: Lina Poletti (Italian poet), Rina Faccio (Italian writer), and Anna Kuliscioff, who was born in Ukraine, but studied medicine in Italy and became one of the first doctors in Italy, and strong voice for women across Europe. It’s a story of women who fought for human treatment of women. They didn’t want lives that led to asylums. They also demanded freedom to grow intellectually, to be able to read and discuss it with other women. They argued that voting for men only is not democracy, but tyranny. The story involves many fascinating women and this is what I appreciate, shedding light on them. As the story is told in brief pieces and keeps introducing new women, it hardly feels as a novel. After the introduction of the three women, they in a way connect, but I thought there would be more to their stories. Instead, the book progresses with introduction of more women. The short vignettes give it a feel of brisk introduction of different women, but I wanted to connect with those women on a deeper level. That was the missing part for me. Overall, it is a fascinating story of women who were brought to light. Source: ARC was provided by the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.

Shortlisted for the James Tait Black Prize for Fiction The manuscript of Una donna had initially been rejected by a set of editors in Milano because it was too boring. It was only the story of a woman, they said. It was a story that they already knew, there was only one story. It had no dramatic tension. A fascinating novel in “cascading vignettes” and a welcome diversion from the character and plot driven novels that tend to feature on the Booker. A novel I finished, appropriately, on the day that England’s Women’s team, one where players are open about their diverse sexuality, erased 56 years of hurt caused by the men (men’s football still chronically inflicted by homophobia). And yet the big question hanging over the representative nature of the England women’s team is the lack of racial diversity, a fact often attributed to the lack of ground-level opportunities for women to access football. And another brilliant discovery by the UK’s finest publisher of Anglophone literature, Galley Beggar Press, twice winner of the Goldsmiths Prize for innovative fiction. It is always wonderful to have a book featured on a prize like the Booker when one’s name is in the back of the book as one of the Galley Buddies who helped fund it. The novel intersperses snippets of lightly fictionalised biographies with a narration driven by a Greek chorus of women’s voices. It focuses largely on women (men are largely and consciously written out) from the first three decades of the 20th century, notably Lina Poletti and Sibilla Aleramo, Virginia Woolf and Vita Sackville-West and the Paris salon gathered around Natalie Barnay, with Sappho’s inspiration a key link, alongside (as the years are marked by both WW1 and the rise of fascism in Italy) Cassandra (whose inclusion is also a nod to Christa Wolf’s work). Some quotes from the book and related works: But which books should we read? asked one girl very seriously, twisting the ends of her plaits. Virginia Woolf replied, If a novel bores you, leave it. Try something else. Poetry is too like fiction to be a change. But biography is a very different thing. Go to the bookcase & take out a life of anybody. From the author’s afterword: Moreover, men like Gabriele d'Annunzio — who swaggers pre-potently through every account ever written of Eleonora Duse and Romaine Brooks — do not merit here even a footnote about who they married or how they died. It has been surprisingly easy to leave out these sorts of men: a simple swift cut, and history is sutured without them. I think of Vita Sackville-West, who said in a letter in 1919 that the only revenge one could take on certain men was to brazenly rewrite them. At that time, all she had at hand was an unfinished chapter of her novel Challenge. Therefore, Vita recounted, 'last night I went to Aphros and imprisoned all the Greek officials, which gave me a certain ferocious satisfaction'. The fact that my claim here about gender and fiction rests upon a quote from a real letter -which I have gleaned from a reputable scholarly source, Georgia Johnston's The Formation of 20th-Century Queer Autobiography: Reading Vita Sackville-West, Virginia Woolf; Hilda Doolittle, and Gertrude Stein — in which the author explains that she has, in some fictional yet satisfying sense, gone to Greece for a night, in order to exact narrative retribution for the wrongs done to her protagonist (under whose name she sometimes went around in the world): this, I think, illustrates the genre of the present work. Review by Virginia Woolf of The Feminine Note in Fiction by W.L. Courtney (Chapman & Hall, 1904), from the Guardian, Jan 25th 1905 Women, we gather, are seldom artists, because they have a passion for detail which conflicts with the proper artistic proportion of their work. We would cite Sappho and Jane Austen as examples of two great women who combine exquisite detail with a supreme sense of artistic proportion. Quote from Lote by Shola von Reinhold, winner of the Republic of Consciousness Prize 2020 ‘Indeed, I would venture to guess that Anon, who wrote so many poems without signing them, was often a woman,’ Virginia Woolf said. ‘And/or Black,’ Malachi said. This last highlights one obvious criticism of the book - that the women featured are almost exclusively white and privileged. The author has acknowledged this in an interview: DO YOU SEE THIS – THE KIND OF QUEST AND RIGHT TO ONE’S OWN IDENTITY AND LIFE – AS ONE OF THE CENTRAL THEMES OF THE NOVEL?) Yes! And I believe that this should also hold true for people who are not mostly well-educated white women with comfortable incomes in Western European cities. 4.5 stars

This was great.

This is one flighty book. One which defies classification too, as even it admits, in the afterward. And the purpose is the main point of the book, so revealing it would be a spoiler and ruin the fun. But it is a series of vignettes, fictional mixed with non-fiction, through various characters. It charts around 150 years of history. It’s form and function is paired to Sappho’s fragmentary work. This, to be honest, made it simultaneously fast to read and difficult to actually pay attention to. You are constantly getting resituated in space and time and a new character. It’s a bit of a puzzle, and one that can be really frustrating sometimes. Things do come together with enough patience. And I do typically gravitate towards stuff that is unconventional, so I’m somewhat predisposed to extending a fair amount of good faith to even new-to-me authors. I doubt this is actually a novel, though comprised technically of a lot of short snippets of stories. I am also not sure what else it is, though it goes into that after the end, if you’re curious, and you can figure where you’re at with it yourself. Prose wise, I liked it. The format makes it so it’s quite poetic but it is also grounded in what is concretely happening in the life of the character, typically. It gets in, gets out. It’s unabashedly angry, rightly so, when charting the path of men oppressing women. Probably put some people off but it didn’t bother me even slightly. And a special note: I highly recommend you get this in the hardcover binding from the US coming, because the paperback UK has really crap binding. The gutter is terrible and so tight, it’s actually annoying to keep the pages apart, almost like a mass market paperback, but oversized.

"An invert is not exactly someone thought backwards. An invert is someone thought in a different order. A part that others display on the outside, like a bronze breastplate, is instead chambered in the heart. Or inverts may have their warmest parts turned outwards, like orchids or octopuses". This book is a collection of voices of some trailblazing inverts. A scrapbook of vignettes flaunting tales of empowerment and resilience of some queer women from history in late 19th century and early 20th century and the connections they brewed over love and art. Challenging the chains of civil codes and artistic restrictions imposed on them, "these little vines" documents the disruptive creative energies of women like Virginia Woolf, Natalie Barney, Romaine Brooks, Vita Sackville- West, Lina Poletti, Isadora Duncan, Sara Bernhadt, Gertrude Stein and Radclyff Hall. Spread across domains of fiction, art, essays, music and dance, these women, identifying as daughters of Sappho, sketched themselves vehemently into a tradition which viewed them as misfits and preferred their silence. "It was time for women to write into being what they want to." Like its women, the book transcends generic boundaries. There is biography, imagination, poetry all in one. Like its women united by the strengths of their identity, the narrative moves ahead in the voice of 'we'. An ode to Sappho's Greek chorus and solidarity binding women across the history. I had some of Sappho's fragments in my MA syllabus and I am overwhelmed by how much Schwartz's poetic language exudes the elegance and lyrical finesse of Sappho's fragments.

'As long as we stayed in the rooms of Natalie Barney, we felt, we would be lit from within by the images of what we could be. On Fridays at Natalie’s we thought of Sappho: Evening/you gather back/all that dazzling dawn has put asunder. But Romaine Brooks, exasperated by our poetic and overheated rooms, demurred. Amazons, not nymphs, Romaine said brusquely. And no one is going back to those islands.’

This was a lovely homage to Sappho and her words. Schwartz really shows how she has made an impact through history, in different ways for different generations. What I liked the most was how it showed the connections between authors and their context, and the femininity that coarses through it. I don't like poetry and "highbrow" literature very much, so I didn't care about the extracts and how she inspired literature that much, more about women and their lives in general.

Everything about this novel is fragmentary. The structure, in small broken sections, the inspiration being the broken pieces of Sappho’s verses, even the observations of some of the characters: ‘Some art can only be written in fragments’, says Sibilla Aleramo. One of the things that I love about the ancient Greek poet Sappho is that her scholarship can never be static. By that I mean new verses and fragments are constantly being added to her known works. No doubt scholars argue back and forth in learned journals about whether the latest fragment is really by Sappho or just some pale imitator. Given the brevity of some of the pieces, how would they ever know? Anne Carson translated her in ‘If not, Winter’ in 2003, but a whole new poem of Sappho’s came to light in 2014, rendering all previous translations incomplete. It must be a challenge to any classical scholar that an archaeological discovery could overthrow years of scholarship at any moment. One of the observations made by one of the characters in After Sappho is ‘Our lives are the missing lines from the fragments.’ This is what the whole book does, adds to the little we know with a sprinkle of something else. One of my favourite quotes from the book reads: We imagined Sappho watching us, expectant or even impatient, waiting for her future to arrive in the form of us. We thought of Virginia Woolf: short pieces from life now. Yes, said Romaine Brooks, enough lyric poetry. Not another still life with flowers. More portraits of us. What the book so eloquently does is to chart the lives of a group of feminists, Sapphists, artists, writers and actors through the late 1800s to the 1920s. I love the way we follow the fortunes of various women who rebel against the outdated order of society, against the suppression of women, their treatment as property and their marriages to unsuitable men. I love that there are women who change, who are fluid, even their names are not set in stone. When the novelist asks her name, Rina said it was Sibilla, like the Sybil of Delphi. A new name was like a blank notebook; Rina could write herself into it with a folio of fresh pages she could write herself into becoming Sibilla, enigmatic and sibilant. We move back and forth across a wide cast of characters, until it is only by frequent repetition of one or two that we begin to discern out central figures. Throughout the weaving stories there are wonderful flashes of brilliance, take for example this description: Anna Kuliscioff had sung for her supper in the parks of northeastern Ukraine, she had survived tuberculosis and childbirth and exile: the only thing she feared was compromise, the soothing voice that licks down rage until it is nothing but a small smooth lump in your hand. We constantly bounce around characters and years. I can see that this might put some readers off, disrupting the flow of the narrative, but what it does allow is the constant forging of new connections, for example where characters come back into the story. The book is all about women, so that when a man does turn up, in the form of London cabman William Seymour, it is quite a shock. Until we learn that his real name was Margaret Honeywell. We never learn the name of his wife. Themes of feminine creativity constantly circle fluid identity. Names and sexes will change throughout. Words and language are other themes we frequently return to. A particular word or case are often highlighted. The vocative occurs in one place to give us the poet talking about herself, ‘Sappho, why?’ I had never heard of the optative before, but listen to the beauty of this description: In ancient Greek, to utter a wish or a hope, there is the optative. The optative is a mood, almost a feeling. It hovers in the air just outside of time or subject, wistful in colour, its edges slightly tinged with foreboding. A new word that I learnt was ‘lucubrare’ which is a verb that means to think by lamplight. I never knew how much I needed such a word. Schwartz is a scholar of French and Italian comparative literature, and her feminist selections are drawn heavily from this milieu, although more familiar names gradually enter the stage; Colette, Sarah Bernhardt, Gertrude Stein, Virginia Woolf and Vita Sackville-West. As we progress, there is more and more from Virginia Woolf and her lover Vita Sackville-West. We watch Virginia developing the inspiration for a novel, until at last she fixes upon the idea of Orlando. The pair write each other, making each other up. ‘Bit by bit they laid out their lives for each other as if they were swaths of coloured fabric on the table.’ Woolf’s love-letter-novel was, in 1928, a landmark in the writing of sexually fluid characters. At one point we see Virginia working at the Hogarth Press: At first Virginia Woolf has set up each letter in the place herself; added the flourish of titles and frontpieces; blown the ink dry with her own breath, for the first book she had also stitched the spine in red yarn, so that when the pages lay open it was like a bright day in winter: the snowy margins, the black stick-legs of birds hopping towards the red berries in the rowan tree. It reminded me of Jeanette Winterson’s fine collection of essays, Art Objects, in which she talks about the joy of owning early editions from the Hogarth Press, just for the knowledge that they were once handled by Virginia herself. The end of the book arrives very suddenly in the form of a three-page afterword which attempts to wrap up the biography of Lina Poletti, the person with whom we began the book: We wrote the lives of Lina Poletti, but did not always understand them. In some way Lina was always beyond us. She would crest a wave that left us thrashing for breath. These lives are beautifully captured at points throughout the book, and I especially liked the way Schwartz describes Lina’s love letters: …when Lina desired someone she would often change her name. Ardent, mysterious letters would arrive to you from whoever Lina was, Sibilla said, and you simply had to know. Or you guessed, because it could not have been anyone else. The letters were like hushed breaths on the back of your neck: you wanted to turn around and embrace them, but you also wanted to wait, feeling them arrive one after the other, steady and thrilling. What impressed me most about the book is that although the fragments are set at least a century, if not many centuries, ago, the novel manages to feel modern and contemporary. This year the Booker Prize has three debutant novelists on the longlist of thirteen, but After Sappho must rank as the most experimental. And one of the most pleasing.

Oh, this was wonderful! After Sappho is a novelization of the lives of various historical women, from Vita and Virginia to Colette and Josephine Baker, who all came, well, after Sappho. Artists, sapphics, writers, feminists. Not necessarily non-fiction, we get to glimpse into their lives and work in short vignettes, going back and forth in time to see how they fight for a better future for women, while also seeing how their lives might occasionally intertwine. Another reviewer called this hopeful and a novel of movement, and that's exactly what it is. The way it's written, in this unique, poetic, nearly short story-like way, works perfectly for what it's trying to do. It truly caught me by surprise because I don't think it's necessarily what I thought it would be when I bought it on a semi-sunny day back last autumn while going home after defending my MA thesis, but it managed to be so much more, so much better than I imagined. I highly recommend it!

This book was a pure surprise, I went into Waterstones in Belfast and The Marriage Portrait was on the "Buy One, Get One Half Price" table, so I was taking that one (I was just finishing another of her books), but I would "have to" pick another and even with three other books that had already been on my radar, this title popped to me and I'm so glad I was there to find it!!! This book is a beautiful merge of fiction and history and biography excerpts, and it's told in such a particular way with the small bits on these women's life, and to then learn how these stories connect, how through history we find each other!! These stories about many of these women who I had not heard about, but lived incredible lives, with adventures and moments in art and literature, and in politics, in making a difference and creating a new future. This was just a really good read, that's honestly great for travelling, since even the chapters are broken up into smaller bits, and it will give you a lot to learn about these women that shaped Europe in between the end of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century!! :D

At first, I really couldn’t get into the way that this was written and I was waiting for some plot to begin, so the beginning felt really slow and confusing to me. However, when I stopped trying to keep track of all the people and just, sort of, took the information in, I absolutely flew through this and loved it. I found myself constantly wanting to research everyone and had to stop myself until after I’d finished because everyone’s lives were so interesting and meaningful and interconnected. I hadn’t heard of so many of these women and loved getting an introduction to them and the impact they’ve had on culture and art over the years. Really recommend!

Winner of the 2025 Republic of Consciousness Prize, UK & Ireland, for small presses Shortlisted for the Scott Moncrieff Prize for translations into English of full-length French works of literary merit and general interest Longlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize They were driven by a single abject certainty: the best way to bring up children was to shut them up by terrorizing them! Rather than explain things, they petrified them, and they never resorted to persuasion because it was easier to intimidate. Mes parents étaient animés d'une seule et abjecte conviction : que la meilleure façon d'élever des enfants était de leur clouer le bec en les terrorisant ! Ils n'expliquaient donc pas, ils épouvantaient. Ils ne persuadaient jamais puisqu'il était plus simple d'intimider. There's a Monster Behind the Door (2024) is the translation by Laëtitia Saint-Loubert and Karen Fleetwood of Gaëlle Bélem's debut novel Un monstre est là, derrière la porte (2020). The novel begins: ‘That’s the way it is and that’s that!’ While parents usually get carried away trying to explain the great mysteries of life and the why and wherefore of everything to their offspring, the Dessaintes always proved exceptionally mean when it came to explanations. The translators and author of the novel prove rather more generous, with a useful foreword as well as 31 unobtrustive footnotes (some from the original, some added) as well as some helpful glosses. The novel is set, starting in the early 1980s and covering c. two decades, on the island of La Réunion: Welcome to the island of La Réunion in the 1980s: a heap of rubble on the edge of the world where the worst human superstitions, chased out by waves of European scepticism, had finally found a welcoming harbour. [...] Any anticolonialist from another French territory would have been quick to evoke the learned inferiority complex, traumatic memories, perverse determinism, collective neurosis and vicious circles of violence – but here they only talked of a difficult end to the century, of a century on its last legs. And it was then, as the sun set on this shipwreck century, that my parents took it into their heads to be born, to grow up, to get married and to perpetuate their line. This humorous and disparaging tone is typical of the novel's narrator, a young woman, I think in her late teens at the time the novel is written, looking back on her life to that point. She is, with her mother, one of only two Dessaintes who hadn’t been locked up left in La Réunion, the Dessaintes an unruly family, and her parents taking little interest in her education, preferring superstition and scare-stories to science. Indeed the narrator has a relationship with them, and her violent family, than reminds me of Matilda, although her own model is the 19th century author Jules Vallès (1832-1885), whose L’Enfant (The Child) he dedicated to ‘all those who died of boredom at school or were made to cry in the family, who, during their childhood, were tyrannised by their teachers or scolded by their parents’. I read everything. Maupassant, Cicero, Hesse and Rostand, Süskind and Mirbeau. Loti, Melville, Seneca, Lautréamont, À rebours, Lao She and Livy. Anything that could be used as a door wedge or paper weight. Anything that would otherwise be easy fuel when we ran low on candles on the night of a cyclone. Lots of comics too. I would have sold my father for a Picsou Magazine or a Mickey Parade Géant. This universe of coloured speech-bubbles where the evil characters are not really that bad has never left me: the characters are just brainless individuals with clenched fists – a little narcissistic, a little complicated – who want to conquer the world out of sheer stupidity and boredom. So when nothing’s going right, when the walls get so high that even prayers can’t help you scale them, I open a comic book. As if leaning over a precipice, I dive right in, seeking a different world where no one can find me and I can forget. I have a book on my bedside table. Because I don’t have a gun. This is a novel, in Saint-Loubert and Karen Fleetwood's vibrant translation of rich prose, steeped in the traditions of the island, although observed with an offbeat slant, this her imagining of her parent's wedding: A few hours later comes the ordeal of the dessert: a wedding cake consisting of five tiers of choux puffs, decorated with arabesques, wafer flowers that have now wilted, and pink and blue ribbons. Just like the dole office, a long queue of half-asleep people forms, snakes its way towards the choux puffs and smacks two kisses on the cheeks of the bride and groom in exchange for a paper plate that contains a piece of the cake – a bizarre confection of liquorice syrup, soursop puree, preserved loquats, creamed red kuri squash, salted jackfruit and caramelized jujube. Nobody knows exactly what it is, only that it’s bad. But under the humour, this is a powerful story of someone struggling to escape the trappings of post-colonialism, poverty and a troubled family legacy through learning and literature. The judges' citation “A rollicking, sardonic picaresque set on the French outpost of La Réunion in the. 1980s. The novel has important things to say about colonialism and society, but it’s also tremendous fun — darkly funny, acerbic, energetic. There’s scarcely a dull moment on the page, and the translation is remarkably slick.” The press A recent arrival on the Irish publishing scene, Bullaun Press has chosen literature in translation as its focus. It is the first such press of this kind in Ireland. We aspire to open up a space for readers seeking new and different voices. Founder Bridget Farrell’s background in independent publishing and languages inspired her to set up Bullaun in 2021. She wants to see the press become an advocate for translators, especially Irish and Irish-based ones. Bullaun is open to approaches from translators looking for a home for a text that they are passionate about. Translators will also be commissioned to work on recent books that could strike a chord with an Irish audience and beyond. As well as an enriching our reading experiences, it’s an important gesture of recognition of the cultural heritage of some of the many different language-speakers living in Ireland. We’d love to hear from you about compelling books that have not yet been translated into English. What's a bullaun? (from Wikipedia) A bullaun (Irish: bullán; from a word cognate with "bowl" and French bol) is the term used for the depression in a stone which is often water filled. Natural rounded boulders or pebbles may sit in the bullaun. The size of the bullaun is highly variable and these hemispherical cups hollowed out of a rock may come as singles or multiples with the same rock. Local folklore often attaches religious or magical significance to bullaun stones, such as the belief that the rainwater collecting in a stone's hollow has healing properties. Ritual use of some bullaun stones continued well into the Christian period and many are found in association with early churches, such as the 'Deer' Stone at Glendalough, County Wicklow The judges' take If there ever was a need to prove how a translation can vividly recreate a sense of place and time and personhood, Gaëlle Bélem’s There’s a Monster Behind the Door would be exhibit A, with translators Karen Fleetwood and Laëtitia Saint-Loubert brought in to testify. In prose that throbs with verve, humour and pain, this narrative set on the island of Réunion brings to life a narrator beset with the history of her family and her people, who tries to use the power of language and literature to transcend her circumstances. While she fails within the story, the book succeeds – spectacularly – as a novel.

A very, very cool book. There’s A Monster Behind The Door is a story about generational violence and self-destruction, but also self-acceptance and coming-of-age novel. The unnamed narrator is the only daughter of the Dessaintes. What was once a passionate marriage has turned into a toxic, hate-fuelled loathing for each other, and the daughter can do nothing but absorb these intense, violent emotions she sees displayed from her parents. Between their addiction to horror films, where at six years old the narrator becomes accustomed to some very explicit body horror on a nightly basis and internalises this as her own rage, and their emotional and physical abuse of their daughter, she both attempts to navigate the world as a girl who wants to achieve, grow, learn and succeed, but also cannot seem to escape the violence that seems so wrapped up in her family’s DNA. The writing was exquisite and I absolutely adored this narrator. She is an anti-hero, and we cheer on both her happiness and academic success and lust for violence. The balancing act, she discovers, is what has plagued the Dissaintes family for generations. She fantasises about killing those she is jealous of, perhaps imitating the movies her parents became so addicted to, but also exudes a desire to be nurtured, liked, and accepted by an adult in her life. I loved how we explored so much of her family history, whilst also focusing on her internal struggle if not knowing who to be and how to express the destruction and violence she so easily turns to. It was also great to learn more about La Reunion as a country, as it’s not a place I have read from before. The translators note at the beginning was fantastic and I loved the inclusion of the footnotes to help immerse the reader into the world. This was claustrophobic, violent, intense and a complete tour-de-force. But it has to be to reflect the sheer amount of pressure building up within the narrator and to demonstrate the tension of the duality. The novel ends by asking “is that how it’s going to end, then? With the same violence, the same deceit, the same injustice as the start?” In succumbing to a cyclical conclusion, the book really critiques the danger of generational violence and how this is kept in place not just by individuals but the systems that surround them. This was a really stunning piece of work.

That’s the way it is and that’s that! What a phenomenal debut. There’s A Monster Behind The Door is a riot. i can’t remember the last time i had so much fun with a book: it made me laugh out loud, it tugged on my heart strings, and it taught me a lot about La Réunion, a French overseas colony in the Indian Ocean. The novel commences with a bang as we’re immersed into La Réunion in the 1980s, where our unnamed narrator reflects on the Dessaintes’ cruel methods of parenting. From telling her she’d grow an orange tree in her stomach for eating the pips or that she’d remain small for climbing onto the table, our narrator regards her parents as ‘horrible Creole versions of the monosyllabic Bartleby coupled with that nutcase Lovecraft’. 😭 Unraveling the extent to which parents in rue Descartes torment their children—although the children later grow up to perpetuate this cycle—the hysterical family dynamics in rue Descartes elicit more than what meets the eye. Amidst the humour of these passages, Bélem exhibits an implicit portrait of the lingering effects of colonialism; its many facets and the ways in which the characters of the novel have internalised and been transformed by the legacies of their enslaved ancestors. Is our unnamed narrator able to go against the fate that has been imposed on her within this post-colonial landscape? i was absolutely taken aback by the breadth and depth this novel covers within its page count. i immensely enjoyed the translator’s note: hearing about their collaborative work and the decisions they considered when translating this post-colonial body of work from french into english, what is, another colonial language. Fleetwood and Saint-Loubert opted in for a translingual approach, peppering the text with the original Creole and footnotes throughout—i loved it! This was my first time encountering Reunionese literature, and it certainly won’t be the last— i’m very grateful for this year’s IBP for putting this on my radar. 10/10 from me!!!

There’s a Monster Behind the Door keeps up the theme of this year’s IB Longlist where personal lives are entwined with a country’s history. In this case it’s an offbeat coming of age story. The narrator is a girl who tries to break free from her dysfunctional family. The setting is the island of Réunion during the 80’s. Throughout the book the narrator talks about how reading and having a zest for life helps her escape her strange parents. As she delves deeper into her family’s ancestors we readers see the effects of colonialism on a nation. The prose is quite funny at times and the narrator’s voice is memorable. When an author manages to disguise quite a few horrors using this tone, you know you have something great here.

I really loved the beginning of this one, because the narrative tone hits you in the face and just keeps on going. There's a bit of a fairytale feel to it, and I really liked the translation - so much so that I'm really curious to read it in the original French and compare. After a really strong beginning the narrative loses tension though and the clear idea of who the protagonist is fades. I still liked it, but it took quite a while to read on as it dragged a bit. The ending was on point again, leaving me with an impressive but slightly uneven experience. I really like this IB nomination for Gaëlle Bélem, and I am really intrigued by a book about a place and experience I have never read about before.

The narrator is a young woman living (or maybe existing?) on the France's Indian Ocean island of Reunion. She tells of her upbringing with (at best) negligent and (at worst) abusive, parents. The narrative style is jokey, tongue-in-cheek humour which mostly works well, although I'm not sure it does for those parts of the story where our heroine is being badly treated. Still, mostly a fun read

A wonderful, tragic and funny little look into life in La Réunion, litterd with snippets of its history. It fell apart a little bit for me right at the end, but will be reading more Bélem for sure. She has a talent for writing on serious matters in a way that stil made me laugh out loud, without losing the gravity of the topic.

This was my favorite March book! Gaelle’s voice is so unique, tragic but humorous! I felt myself reflected in her words, often pondering on how children of parents “who have nothing to offer but their own terror” process things the same way, or in shapes that intersect. While we get to watch the Dessainte’s reign of tragedy, we hear a voice of a girl, an an intimate portrayal of a legacy that struggles to come up for air, of generations of slaves brought to La Reunion (a French overseas department - weird right?), who have forcibly learn the inevitability of their condition, of poverty and despair. Our protagonist, retells her childhood and teen years with dread, sarcasm and a defiance you can tell has boundaries. There’s generational violence, rage and terror: I can’t let go of this idea her parents put into her head, that if she would eat orange sips an orange tree would grow inside her… “That’s the way it is, and that’s that!” I can’t imagine what must be like, to have your culture, country and even your own skin, taken away from you. To be forced to live in an existence, where religion and myth and trauma emerge to justified the loss of strength and hope for a future -“lashed away, generation after generation, with violent blows of the whip”. Gaelle rarely provides hope, the pit gets darker and bottomless, and all the more difficult to climb. Our protagonist fights, she’s pushing back all the time, and her biggest weapons and defiant acts, reside in her reading and writing, her excelling in school, her breaking the Dessainte’s curse! But will she? I’m absolutely in awe with her writing, and had a blast with this emotional, funny, and at times hard to digest novel. I can’t wait to read more from her! If you’re interested in generational trauma, in post-colonial contexts and “coming of age” tropes - a tragic-com setting, this one is for you!

I was intrigued to read this novel, an International Booker Prize long list for 2025, because we visited this small island, part of the EU as a department of France, the longest ‘internal’ flight in the world, 2 years ago for my husband to attempt the 100 mile diagonale de fou ultra. La Réunion is an amazing tropical paradise rather reminiscent of ‘Jurassic Park’. However this novel was based in the 1980s when La Réunion was ‘a heap of rubble at the end of the world’. The author makes the reader aware of the fractures in the society from the creoles, who tended to live in the interior cirques of the island where they hid after escaping from the plantations,they were descended from African slaves, who are the violent and misunderstood underclass ; the white metropolitan people from France the Zoreils who live on the seaboard; Muslims and Indians. This is a coming of age story of a creole girl, one of the much despised Dessaintes family, superficially reminiscent of Matilda. She is ignored by her family despite her efforts to attract their attention. However there is much more cruelty involved than in Matilda, violence, an alcoholic mother and a father who eventually disappears for good. It is only at the end of the book that one realises why the tale is being told. Overall it was a unique book, hard to read in places and hilarious in others. The translators did a brilliant job of incorporating all the multiple languages on the island. P.S. I would say now it’s a very prosperous and seemingly law abiding place, actually benefiting from the colonialisation and money from France and Europe. We will be going back as my husband had to DNF the race. It’s a fascinating and very beautiful island.

A book that ended up surprising me in the best way. The ironic voice was a CHOICE, but thankfully the book is not overly long (there is a bit of a drag in the middle). Dark humor is used to great effect as a defense mechanism, allowing the heavy themes to feel light and fresh.

International Booker Prize longlist. The rich, vibrant narrative of a young girl growing up on La Réunion in the 1980s. She tells her own story, but it’s also the story of the troubled clan she has been born into, the Dessaintes, whose members are prone to criminality and violence: much of this is owing to the unhappy legacy of colonialism. Parts of the book are very funny and parts very bleak (the abuse suffered by the protagonist at the hands of her parents is awful). I liked the conclusion a lot. The language is also very colourful and idiomatic, packed with Creole terms, and although I only read it in French, I would like to read the English translation, as it would certainly have been a challenging book to translate. One strange resonance of the book for me is that La Réunion was previously named the Île Bourbon by the French, and one 19th c. novel I know well (Indiana by George Sand) represents the Île Bourbon as a kind of idyllic, natural paradise for white French people to flee to. Bélem’s depiction of La Réunion offers a dramatically different perspective!

4.5 beautifully written, extremely smart & a really interesting read. I learnt a lot about Réunion partially thanks to the helpful footnotes from the translator

3.75 rounded up I would have rated this a lot higher if we didn't have the few tangents that broke up the plot

A lot of energy, sometimes a bit messy, but good.

As if leaning over a precipice, I dive right in, seeking a different world where no-one can find me and I can forget. I have a book on my bedside table. Because I don't have a gun. The writing style and the translation here are excellent. I loved Bélem's witty narrative voice, and the way that the humour really brings the island to life. There are so many vibrant, wonderful characters here, and as a window into life on a small island, still technically part of France but generally neglected and bypassed in favour of the mainland, this book is wonderful. Its use of local folklore, brought up when the narrator's parents want to scare her into submission, works brilliantly to illustrate the inherent darkness at the heart of colonialism. Its heroine is intriguing, too. In many ways, she reminds me of Roald Dahl's Matilda, seeking to escape her abusive family through education, always feeling more at home with her nose in a book. I did wish that there were more of an over-arching plot, though. It felt like an awful lot of backstory with rather limited pay-off at the end, especially given the rather sudden fate of the narrator, which, although possibly designed to be inevitable given everything enumerated about her family up to that point, still felt as though it came out of nowhere. It worked in a cyclical sense to underscore the impossibility of escaping family trauma unscathed, particularly in a colonial context, but purely in terms of character development, I can't pretend not to have felt somewhat disappointed. Still, this was a fun, interesting read, and I really appreciated the footnotes included by the translators, which never felt obtrusive, but which helped me to navigate the terrain of La Réunion.

This book is slim and perplexing and if I were more invested in the International Booker this year surely I'd take more umbrage at its inclusion (I wouldn't say I found it groundbreaking, and I honestly don't fully understand how it was eligible), so on that level I do understand this book's largely negative reception. But, however you'd classify it and whatever it did or didn't do to earn its spot on the longlist, I honestly really enjoyed it. The War of the Poor focuses on Thomas Müntzer, a controversial theologian at the heart of the Protestant Reformation, and I'd say that having some kind of interest in that period of history is a baseline requirement to getting anything out of this. This book reads, as some have noted, like a Wikipedia entry on Müntzer's life and death and all the revolts in between, but I also think that comparison minimizes its efficacy. I think Vuillard's writing is riveting and this is a much more thematically coherent project than its Wikipedia counterpart, and I also enjoyed the meta commentary on the ways in which we engage with history. I found it to be sharp, engaging, topical, and poignant--certainly worth a read if its summary sounds appealing.

Maybe 3.5 stars... // Even though the general consensus on Goodreads (and everywhere else) is “why was this even on the longlist and now shortlist for International Booker Prize?” And I totally get that sentiment, but I gotta admit, I liked it. Personally, I don’t think it should’ve been up for the prize, but I was entertained for the most part. The book is tiny, you could probably read this in an hour or two. The actual story is about 79 pages with ridiculously huge font. I wouldn’t even call this a novella, it’s like a long short story. (haha, that’s baffling) The extra pages at the back are an excerpt from another one of his books. This book’s tone is like a history lesson mixed with slapstick comedy and dark humor, told with breakneck speed. This is a weird one to talk about, but I’ll say, it is a timely book in a way (that’s my guess on why it resonated with the judges): thematically covering topics of political protests, fight for what’s right, down with the rich, religious fanaticism, etc. I don’t think this is an outstanding book by any means, but it kept me entertained at the moment.

Triplegänger Insomnia Ballade I have two hours lain in bed And I can’t seem to get to sleep There’s so much thinking in my head Why even bother count the sheep? I say my prayers and I weep Sliding wooden beads along A string of memories so deep— In Norway nights are very long I have two hours lain in bed And I can’t seem to get to sleep There’s so much drinking in my head I feel so helpless I could weep The hidden bottles that I keep Sing to me their siren song I think I’ll take a tiny sip— In Norway nights are very long I have two hours lain in bed And I can’t seem to get to sleep There’s so much reading in my head I’ve frightened off my snow-white sheep But there’s no reason for to weep Well-nigh have I finished my song And my poor brain it just went bleep— In Norway nights are very long L'Envoi Sleep, pray summon your man Philippe By sounding your imperial gong And let us in your castle keep— In Norway nights are very long!

Loved this, mostly. Felt like the perfectly digested, unique synthesis of Kafka, Bernhard, Beckett, and Knausgaard, somehow without seeming derivative. Yes, and some Joycean Molly Bloom soliloquy vibe in there too. Loved so much of this, really, particularly the blurred, misty, half-asleep, slant reality, the characters all named Alse or Ales or Alesik, blended like the two lines on the painting he's working on, two lines of thick oil paint intersecting, purple and brown, the horizontal line at an angle like a St. Andrews Cross, which one character never fails to mention and the narrator never fails to silently chide for mentioning. At first there was some disorientation -- not until I was done did I read the back-cover synopsis that refers to the two Alses as doppelgängers. That's not quite the case. More so they're similar yet different, possibly an alternate life in which one Alse hadn't quit drinking, or maybe just another painter named Alse with similar hair. Really took off and realized I was in it to win it when Alse overlooks a young couple on swings and making snow angels and maybe covertly copulating in the snow under their coats, they may be strangers with the same names, actually Alse and Ales when young like a vision into the past, or just a memory he's reanimating, a fantasy of a lost life. Not so much moving or engaging but intriguing, quietly beguiling, easy clear transparent flowing prose (with unconventional punctuation), about anxiety, alcoholism, Catholicism, prayer, artistic processes, the nature of God, the nature of light and shadow. Loved the weird interaction with Guro at the Food and Drink, all of which reminded me of K.'s weird shadowy sexually charged interactions with helper women in The Trial and The Castle. Liked a stream-of-consciousness section as the exhausted narrator tries to sleep in a hotel room and thought dissolves. Rounded all-important astral-rating down from the full five pentacles for a 43-page retrospective digression that comes out of nowhere, with no more than a phrase or two transition in the climax slot and really went on too long and seemed too repetitive, at best a bit like the early pages of The Waves, setting up I suppose the sudden, surprising, sensationalist conclusion of book II that, although really well done and riveting and wrenching and made me reconsider the previous ~320 pages as it set up future installments of the scheduled five books, seemed out of character with everything preceding. Will definitely read the remaining volumes and more, possibly all, of Fosse, even if the last third of this volume (or last half of the second book, really) maybe too radically departed from the excellent precedent of the first volume. Single lingering impression: the retrospective shockwave of the revelation at the end reduces the established pervasive Nordic semi-surreal mythic sense and modulates it but also degrades it from abstracted dreamy canonical sublime into something unexpected, sensational, earthy, and very much real? Anyway, looking forward to reading more by the author and the remaining parts of this project.

128th book of 2023. 4.5. So nearly a five but I'm holding back for whatever reason. I was underwhelmed by Fosse's slim novella, A Shining (though I found it an interesting piece of work nonetheless), but this is what I was hoping when I got into it. I've had a Septology book on my case since Fitzcarraldo published it so his winning of the Nobel Prize is a good excuse to finally read the whole thing. As many others have said: no full stops, stream-of-consciousness, Fosse has been called the Beckett of the 21stC by Le Monde, and he's certainly got a streak of Bernhard in him. That's always a win for me, too. Asle is a man who lives with his grief and loneliness, his faith, which is incredibly strong but paradoxical (like all self-aware faith, I think), and his past alcoholism. I've seen someone close to me be destroyed by alcohol, to the point it killed them incredibly quickly, and I read that Fosse himself battled with these issues, so the parts about cutting it out, and the shaking and troubles of other Asle, were poignant to me. There was more 'plot' than I was imagining and without full stops, I just glided through the book. 351 pages in two days, with ease. On multiple occasions I panicked on the train, thinking I'd missed my stop. When driving I kept looking at the passenger seat, where the book lay, and wished I could pick it up and read it. It's hypnotising and addictive, repetitive and original. If the rest of the Septology continues in this way then the Nobel is worthy. After my tantrum about the Booker Prize, I think the only thing I take stock in now is the Nobel and MB International (the latter less than I used to). As for contemporary literature, Fitzcarraldo continue to carve the path for me, and the rest falls by the wayside. I know what they publish, even if it isn't good or enjoyable, is worthwhile. I have no doubt I'll be writing more personally about this novel on mooseteabooks, mine and Alan's Instagram page.

I have been wary of these recent novels that consist of one run-on sentence (Reservoir 13 & Ducks, Newburyport being in mind) but this Septology seemed like a cool project from Fosse so I took the plunge. It takes a few pages to get the rhythm of the book, but once you find it 'The Other Name' reads smoothly. I enjoyed the sudden shifts from memory to present day. Asle's childhood memories towards the end of the novel were particularly well done, as was the playground scene with Ales. The dialogue can be repetitive and frustrating, and Asle's forgetfulness was overdone, but I also liked his internal debates regarding theology and painting. I've never read a book that seems to remain in a constant state of delusion quite like this (Under the Volcano maybe). As a standalone novel, this is four star territory. Once the Septology is complete and available to readers, I have a strong feeling the project as a whole will be quite the reading experience. My first experience reading Fosse and I look forward to reading more.

And now for something completely different ... I've been meaning to read the Norwegian author Jon Fosse for some time, ever since Karl Ove Knausgaard praised him in his "My Struggle" series. This is the first thing I've read by Fosse, so whether it is emblematic of his other work, I do not know. "The Other Name" is written in something called "slow prose." I'd never heard the term before, and I'm still not exactly sure what defines it. If "The Other Name" is anything to go by, I'd say it's a style of literature devoid of plot, periods, and line breaks. Yes, "The Other Name" looks and reads very much like one marathon run-on sentence. At first, this was jarring and it took me some time to settle in. In its early pages, I figured that "slow prose" meant prose that you had to read slowly because of how unfamiliar the whole format was. But like all things, you get used to it. It's odd, actually, because nothing happens in the 351 pages of "The Other Name." I could summarize the entire "plot" from beginning to end in a single sentence, and it wouldn't even be a run-on sentence. That's how little happens here. Nearly everything happens inside the main character's head. Everything is a thought, a memory, an observation or, particularly, repetition of a thought, a memory, or an observation that the main character had five pages ago, or even five lines ago. It would be easy, too easy, to say that this book is "boring" because it doesn't adhere to any of the accepted rules of the novel. But that would be the wrong word, because it isn't, actually, boring. And I'm surprised to confess that, because if I were reading a review of a plotless book allegedly filled with repetition I would probably give that book a pass. Especially when learning that this is a "Septology" (i.e. a book composed of seven parts) and only the first two parts are contained here, meaning that there are five more parts due out in two additional books. But once you get used to the style this is written in, you really find yourself carried along by the rhythm of it. Reading this has a very lulling effect on you, or it did on me, I should say. It's like falling asleep on a boat that's being gently tossed by the surf. It's pleasant in that way, too. You just read, read, and read, more for the visual experience you get from reading rather than the information you're gleaning from the page. It's sort of the literary equivalent of one of those 5-D experiences at Disney World or the Science Center where the seat vibrates and water mists on you from above, except that in this case there isn't really anything playing on the screen. I found that I couldn't read this during the day, there were too many distractions, so instead I completed this between the hours of midnight and 3 am over three or four nights. Just me, the light of a lamp on the side table, and silence. I recently, after reading another book, called Stillness Is the Key, have started meditating. Or trying to meditate, I should say. If meditation has taught me anything it's that I have way too many thoughts knocking around inside my head. Reading "The Other Name" felt to me like meditating, but a really good sort of meditation (take that as you will from a guy who's only been meditating for like two weeks). In fact, reading this felt more meditative in a way than even the guided meditations I've been taking part in (though these have been good — check out Sam Harris' "Waking Up" app). Like meditation, and, I presume, "slow prose," "The Other Name" is certainly not for everybody. I'm not even sure it's for me. While reading I found myself going back and forth as to whether I would actually pick up the second volume when it's released in English. I'm not sure I will. But I probably will. I'm not driven to read the next volume the way I was to read the subsequent volumes in — Fosse's Norwegian counterpart — Knausgaard's "My Struggle" series, but I enjoyed the experience of reading this for what it was, an experience. "Slow prose" though it may be, I found that once I settled into this, I actually read it pretty fast. Just twenty pages tonight, I'd think, but then, before I knew it, it was already 3 am. You really do get carried away by it, though maybe the lack of sentence breaks and punctuation helps. Where did my mind go while reading this? Because it is largely plotless, you don't have to pay the same kind of attention you'd have to pay to a highly plot-driven novel. It's a different kind of attention, your mind just takes over, the way it does when you're driving along a route you've driven hundreds of times before or when you're dreaming. Your eyes just follow the lines on the page, the pages turn of their own free will, and the words just come ... and go.

I imagine that if you are yet to read Jon Fosse or another of the authors who have written books which are essentially one long sentence, as I’ve heard Ducks, Newburyport is then it could be off putting, and I suspect you probably like that style or you don’t- who knows. I was lucky enough to have read and really enjoyed his novella Aliss at the Fire a year or so ago and that was a great introduction to this longer work. There is something almost hypnotic and entrancing about the writing which essentially involves two days in the life of Asle, a painter who lives alone and has very few friends. One of these is Asleik a farmer and their relationship seems to be one based on proximity more than anything else while another is a man also called Asle, a Doppelganger as such who is also a painter and a loner but who hasn’t managed to give up the alcohol as the original Asle has and is suffering for it. The way Jon Fosse interweaves the life of the two Asle’s keeps you on your toes as does Asle’s constant meandering thoughts back to his past, to life with his now dead wife Ales and his childhood. Asle’s whole life is about painting and his descriptions of having paintings constantly in his head that he needs to get out and the way there has to be a certain light in his paintings for them to be complete are fascinating. In addition to thoughts about the past and about painting every detail of the day is discussed, getting in and out of cars, every conversation, what he eats, wears, where he goes, but again, it's somehow trancelike and therefore compelling. I definitely plan on reading the whole of the trilogy and am already thoroughly enjoying parts III-V.

This actually had more plot that I expected, based on other reviews. The protagonist is negotiating the everyday, years after traumatic events occur. The incursions of memory become surrealistic, for instance as he watches a couple in a playground early on while leaving from a chore. He becomes lost in it and the detail becomes impossible - until you realize he’s not watching anyone, he’s remembering. So it is with his limited interactions with people too. There is a palimpsest moment for every scene. The mundane and the expected same interactions eventually unearth a surrealistic moment that unspools what goes unsaid. The prose work really does become mesmeric. I can’t say it wasn’t sometimes annoying either though, because as you delve deeper into each scene in its circuitous way, the same information eventually ends up like a parrot. It’s less grating on the page than on audio though, so I’ll stick with that in the future. It doesn’t feel completely contained, I must say. Reading it as a stand alone story, it feels clipped, because it is. So I am glad I waited for the complete septology and will just mark that book, rather than each trilogy for my reading goals - but it’s nice to have a place where you codify individual thoughts on each part too.

I read Playground for a family book club. Two people who I greatly admire recommended the book to me. I tried reading it and felt lost after the first 60 pages and set it aside. When I picked it up again, it was like reading a completely different book. I started on page 60 and fell in love with one of the four protagonists, Rafi. Rafi has a challenging childhood, some of it due to Moody Stepdad. Rafi LOVES to read books and hides himself at the local library. Rafi states, "I get free when reading." (Oh, be still my heart!) Evie is a strong, independent woman who loves diving and spending her time underwater. She has over 900 hours of diving time but gets turned down for living long-term underwater because decision makers feel that men and women cannot live together for months at a time and not cause chaos. Evie's love of the ocean impacts her marriage. Her husband, Bart, is "responsible for keeping their small craft of a marriage from being lost at sea." Todd is a master game player and creates games with AI. He and Rafi become good friends. Todd is described as a soldier for the digital revolution. The setting of the book is the island of Makatea in French Polynesia. Americans are arriving on the island to rebuild Makatea as a floating city on the ocean. The locals living on Makatea have to agree to the rebuilding plan. Floating cities are the dreams of tech billionaires because there won't be any regulatory requirements. Richard Powers does an incredible job weaving together the lives of multiple protagonists. His prose captured my heart. Some of the memorable passages include: * A fabulous truth had her by the brain stem. * The great game of Destiny after decades of dormancy. * Moving the goal posts is our best trick. * My father was busy breaking all the accumulated nest eggs. * Death by live burial is what occurs when you throw your dreams away.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2024 Since The Overstory, which won him a Pulitzer in 2019, Powers has become a sort of Jonathan Franzen for ecofiction, and "Playground" is another attempt at the Great American Anthropocene Novel. Build as a sweeping epic, we get narrative strands that move and intertwine: There's Evie, the daughter of one of the inventors of the aqualung and herself a maritime explorer; Todd, a wealthy tech genius and the inventor of a parallel digital world called "Playground", who becomes fascinated by one of Evie's books; Todd's friend/rival Rafi, a Black writer; and Hawaiian-Tahitian sculptor Ina. Rafi and Ina get married, Rafi falls out with Todd, and the wedded couple moves to a small atoll threatened by investors trying to build floating cities around its perimeter, which is, you know, NOT good for oceanic life. See, I'm torn when it comes to Powers' novel Bewilderment, because it's spectacularly written, the character depiction is just fantastic, the sense of urgency is palpable, but it's also partly simplistic, manipulative and overly moralistic - and that's also the case with "Playground": I loved every minute of it, because damn, Powers can write and make me care about his characters, but the the depiction of KI and digital communication in general is just so undercomplex, and the messages (save the oceans, people are highly questionable animals, eat the rich, KI bad, etc.) are hammered home in a sometimes obnoxious way. The level of complexity added towards the end also seems a little over the top. But have I mentioned that damn, Richard Powers can fucking write?! Interestingly, writer/activist Powers wanted to be an oceanographer as a child, then worked as a computer programmer, so he both knows his themes and gets the fascination, and it shows in his writing. He's driven to show that humans and the natural world are interconnected, and I applaud him for it, but I still think his masterpiece remains The Overstory. But to critique "Playground" is complaining on the highest level of literary talent, and this dude deserves all the praise. You can watch Richard Powers being a wonderful human in this recent interview: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PiIoG... You can listen to the podcast crew discuss the German translation Das große Spiel in our Booker special: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

Powers continues to be as subtle as a sledgehammer. His dialogue and characterizations are always so on-the-nose, it drives me nuts. But I guess his nerdy passion for his environmental and social activism is commendable and inspiring. Whereas with THE OVERSTORY, he introduced us to a new way of thinking of trees. This time, he zeroes in on the ocean and its kingdom. With characters and locations ranging from Montreal (yayyy), Chicago, and French Polynesia, which always keeps the narrative pulsating. However, Powers’ depiction and/or exploration of race and women needs work. At times, this book felt so dated and out of touch. There are times when I seriously wonder if Powers has ever interacted with other humans. Maybe he’s more about writing allegories and metaphors, instead of characters. But ironically, what tries to be progressive comes off as reductive. But I’ll digress. Am I being generous or not generous enough? PLAYGROUND is an exhilarating ride, sometimes tedious but mostly the former. Overall, I did enjoy my time with it, in comparison to my muted or incredulous reaction to THE OVERSTORY. The oceanic scenes are wondrous. And there’s also a clear-eyed innocence in the way Powers decided to write this. Even though you can always see Powers peeking in on every page, you can also pick up on his child-like innocence and fascination. Maybe I like my literature to have a bit more acidity and cynicism, but I gotta admit this gave me a nice feeling

First off, a big thanks to Penguin and Cam Waller for hooking me up with an ARC of Richard Powers’ latest novel in exchange for a fair review! Powers, who I’ve read since The Overstory, has become a sort of middleman between the worlds of science, nature, and literature. With Playground, Powers turns his eye toward the world’s oceans in an effort to do for the sea what The Overstory did for trees. Along the way there’s a heaping helping of software development and the looming spectre of AI. To be frank, this seems like two big ideas smashed into one. I know that Powers has an older AI novel, but I found myself longing for the longer dives into the abyssal depths as the novel wore on. This is to say that the effort to centre the ocean often clashes with the AI subplot that becomes the centrepiece by novel’s end. There’s multiple POVs here too that varied in their ability to keep my attention. I liked a great deal of the stories at play, but I’d be lying if I said the French Polynesian plot did anything for me until the last 100 pages or so. By contrast, there’s a beautiful tale of ocean obsession from an aging diver, and the story of two friends who have drifted apart with time that kept my attention and the pages turning. The weakest moments in Playground will be familiar to anyone who has read Powers’ work before. The personal and human aspects of the story can come off as stilted and stiff compared to the beautiful writing about climate and the natural world. This is especially true when the reader is juggling so many characters, relationships, and POVs. This wasn’t an issue with the emotionally arresting Bewilderment, but that novel also benefitted from a more straightforward structure and smaller cast. Of the Powers novels I’ve read, this is my least favourite. With that said, the novel is in many ways thought provoking and the reveal at the end feels earned even as it pulled the rug from under me. Would I recommend it? I think that depends on what you’re after. If it is the ocean version of The Overstory, I think you’ll come away slightly disappointed. If you are looking for Powers’ intellect and experimentation on full display, I think you’ll leave satisfied! [3.5 Stars]

Oh I Am Going Absolutely Nuts

The first half of the book is good but not great. I thought 'Bewilderment', his previous novel, was fantastic primarily because of the relationship of father and son. In 'Playground', the characters seemed a little more cliche. Keane and Rafi's relationship is interesting but the racial stigmas seemed too apparent and forced. I agree with another commenter that Powers' writing was maybe too earnest at times. The twist towards the end of this novel is what makes it great. It is thought provoking and moving. Some reviewers have shared that they felt it was a cop-out ending. But they've missed the entire point. I also like the idea of ghosts of people past still having a stake in the fight. The title of the book is perfect too. We are all children at play, and Earth serves as our playground. But we have arrived at a new dawn. This is the birth of a new age in which the stakes for humanity and our beautiful playground are higher than ever. High four stars.

It's a book that navigates a fine line between trying to promote an agenda...never enjoy a self righteous fiction story that announces what's wrong with the world. However...after sticking with this...it doesn't cross that line. In some terms its a human story of characters..told flashing back and forward and climaxing on a tiny South Pacific Island. There are inspiring thoughts about Oceans...Books..Ecology...Poems....AI....Social Media, that makes me want to explore references mentioned here. Sure it's a strange mix..but satisfying.

Longlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize After school started again, the castor plants grew yellower day after day, and their seed pods appeared at the tip of each branch, waiting to be gathered, like high school students ready to make their mark on the world. Not one of us went to collect them. This was the fall of 1966, and most of our classmates were busy ransacking people's houses, putting up big-character posters, forming themselves into units, linking up with other students across the country, marching in the streets and the castor seeds no longer mattered. Ninth Building (2022) is Jeremy Tiang's translation of the 2010 work 九栋 by 邹静之 (Zou Jingzhi), fiction writer, poet, essayist, screenwriter, and playwright. Tiang was a member of the jury that chose the excellent longlist for the 2022 International Booker Prize and they are the chair of judges for the 2023 National Book Prize for Translated Literature in the US. He introduces his translation at the PEN website. The book is published by one of my favourite presses, the small, independent Honford Star: Honford Star's mission is to publish exciting literature from East Asia, be it classic or contemporary. We believe there are many ground-breaking East Asian authors and books yet to be read by English-language readers, so we aim to make these works as accessible as possible. By working with talented translators and exciting local artists, we hope to see more bookshelves containing beautiful editions of East Asian literature. The author's introduction explains the origins of the work: Ninth Building was the building I lived in as a child. It's been demolished now, and on the same plot they built a bigger, taller Ninth Building. My words only concern the previous incarnation. Before the block disappeared, I went back to take some pictures of it. A place I spent my early years. With its vanishing, there'd be no traces left of my childhood. In the second half of 1996, after the demolition, I began writing these words, producing a first draft of over a hundred thousand characters. I edited four of these stories into shape, and they were published in 1997, along with a few other pieces in journals. In the summer of 1999, I started editing a dozen more in fits and starts, which still left half the manuscript untouched. I originally wrote this book with the idea that by putting them on paper, these past events would re-lease their hold on me. Instead, it felt as if I'd cemented their grip. Having written them out simply made their shadowing more visible. That's why I edited this manuscript below, then left it alone. The novel consists of - a lyrical present-day preface and afterword, including a number of poems; - the introduction (part of which is above) - and two main sections of narrative. The first section is set in the years up to 1966, when the narrator was aged 13. In one sense this is a standard coming-of-age type tale, but set against the backdrop of the cultural revolution, and the horrors of the moment - parents of friends suddenly denounced and disgraced, often driven to suicide - intrude. The boys themselves get both attracted, and in a sense forced, into joining the revolutionary movement - the vaccination in the following a particularly neat simile: We put on our armbands as soon as we emerged from the hutong. Our arms grew glorious, weighty. Only swinging them vigourously made them feel natural. Swaggering, we strutted into a small eating house and ordered four portions of roast meat. We splayed the food open, pouring soy sauce and vinegar in great streams that splashed across the table. The waiter saw the mess we were creating, but didn’t dare say a word. Our arms moved stiffly, as if we’d just been vaccinated. One memorable episode has rumours spread about the coffin of a princess having been excavated in building works in an area which included the ruins of an ancient tomb. The boys go to see it but the only thing they find is an excavator truck digging in mud. On their way back to the Ninth Building they invent a tale of what they actually saw so vivid it almost convinces themselves and as the rumours spread their own tales return to them, amplified and distorted: We’d never expected that some people, in creating fairytales, would turn their minds to eating flesh and crunching bones. Humanity was all fetid bowels, and the collective of grown-ups, even more so. To use two unfortunate cliches (sorry) the game of Chinese whispers leads to an Emperor's new clothes situation where everyone who visits the site confirms they saw what is not actually there, until the authorities paste a poster to the arm of the excavator truck: “Don’t be a worshipful descendant of the old feudal order”. The second section of the novel begins in 1969, running through to 1977. Again 15 and a half, the narrator is sent with many of his fellows, "educated youths" now a term of derision, to the Great Northern Waste for re-education through poverty: Ten or twenty thousand of us dumped in the snowy plains. There he attempts to maintain his love of music, as a violinist, while again in the midst of suffering -freezing conditions; a lack of food and often sudden and violent death from the manual labour they undertake. I've seen death—pale, cold, and bloodless. Like the words suddenly vanishing from a book, leaving blank paper, page after page of it. Such a death would make even the sunniest day blink, exhausted. Right in front of you. A wind rises, as if blowing from your heart. Two of the stories from this part of the novel can be found here, one of which I've abstracted below: Old Yoo played the round horn, also known as the French horn, in the propaganda orchestra. When he followed the five-line score, his grasp of rhythm was exceptionally accurate. Old Yoo usually didn't practice very much. One time the political commissar overheard him as he was rehearsing and called the little tune he was playing “the stinking fart of the bourgeoisie.” This saddened Old Yoo. He put down his horn and asked Old Qian to teach him the erhu. He learnt to read simple notation, and to play “Waters of the Yangtze and Yellow Rivers.” The commissar listened to his rendition and commented that Old Yoo had improved. The full name of our brigade was “Thoughts of Chairman Mao Propaganda Orchestra.” Apart from our own little concerts, we staged mostly revolutionary operas. Being short-staffed, each of our performers often took on three or four roles each. In Legend of the Red Lantern, I played a liaison officer, a spy, and one of the Japanese devils at the execution ground. The narration itself is via a series of disconnected vignettes. As the narrator explains: Granules are different from pearls, which have holes in them and can be strung up. If you scatter granules across the floor, you have to pick them up one by one. True memories are more granule than pearl—there's no string that links them neatly together. Granules can ferment into stories, but stories are steamed buns, white and pillowy, not granular at all. Yun-ju Temple in Beijing's Fangshan district has Buddhist relics that are said to emit light once every few centuries. They're a sort of granule too, the crystallization of what remains after burning. I've studied them up close, but they still seemed un-imaginably far away, beyond the reach of my life and imagination. Buddhist relics are left behind as a sort of essence, the result of lifelong contemplation. It took countless days and nights of food, drink, thought, scripture, shit, and so forth to produce them. These tiny things, like grains of sand, will never disappear. There's no tragedy, no romance, no politics here. They're there when you see them, gone when you don't. Overall, I found this a fascinating work. A relatively simple story but with a distinctive, and in English literary terms, unusual backdrop and told in a distinctive style. A book I'd like to see on the shortlist.

4/5 - this is a greatly insightful look into the violence and tedium that was the Cultural Revolution - an event that is defined by contradictions at its core. Personal perspectives from this time are hard to come by, but this is a good one. Loved Jeremy Tiang's translation, too - I felt the poetry that the Chinese original was celebrated for flow through in English very effectively.

Collection of mostly raw collections from the author's teenage years in Beijing and consequently his adolescent years in the Great Northern Waste where he laboured the land during China's Cultural Revolution. There are moving memories, too. I expected some kind of storyline, but the short chapters more or less stand on their own, as seems common in Chinese literature. All in all, an interesting account of a dark period in China's modern history, a period often ignored in modern China. See also the translator's comments on the translation of this book: https://pen.org/on-translating-zou-ji...

This easy but melancholic read is a memoir from a Chinese writer who limits his scope to the years of the country’s Cultural Revolution. Zou was in the sixth grade when the era began and a full-grown adult by the end, but as the author ascends from childhood to adulthood, we see very little that could be interpreted as normal maturation. When Zou was 17, his father was put on trial for subversion, and Zou was banished to a re-education camp in the “Great Northern Waste” to scythe wheat, “carry sacks” and eke out an existence in the bleakest of circumstances. Zou’s narrative follows the timeline of his own experiences, starting with his behavior as a poor, semi-feral violin-playing prepubescent in a densely-populated area, “petite bourgeois” and scrounging for popsicle money, to his stunted existence as a young adult, resigned and cynical, banished to smoking and gambling and pulling practical jokes in the monotony of the hinterlands. But there are almost no recurring characters in the story, besides Zou, and even Zou’s own story is disjoint – most stories are about what happens around him as he’s given new circumstances. Instead, hundreds of characters are given brief mention in vignettes ranging from just a couple of paragraphs to several pages in length. Early in the book, the author writes, “Apart from my mortal body, I carry around a compilation of shadows, leaving one behind everywhere I go.” This book seems to be exactly that – a compilation of shadows. It seems the right approach for a man who had so little development or stability and few confidantes in his formative years. In combination, these shadows combine to paint a vivid portrayal of the monumental tragedy that was this era in Chinese history, breaking or killing hundreds of thousands of people. We get glimpses of what was lost along the way. Some stories are tragicomedy, others are just tragic. When I selected a prolapsed lumbar disc as my fake illness, I took care to memorize all the literature. I knew back to front what tests would be carried out and the symptoms I should exhibit. Right after the performance, the political commissar held a meeting that lasted through the night. He said Old Yoo had let out an “anti-revolutionary belch.” After this, Old Yoo gave up the round horn. He was whipping the old lady. Small children circled them, watching, shouting, “Defeat the landlord curs!” Sharpie said he’d died at four in the morning, or maybe three. He went easily, like a piece of ice melting while you weren’t paying attention. Zou ties together these vignettes with sporadic and poetic glimpses into his own psyche. “I’d unwrap a candy, lick it once, wrap it up again, then unwrap it for another lick later. A single candy thus led to lingering pleasure. It was savored.” These emotions are interwoven beautifully and seamlessly into the storytelling. You brought your violin along to the Great Northern Waste. These vast plains required a sturdy pair of hands, you couldn’t possibly speak to poverty-stricken farmers about hands or Paganini. You tilled the land in the summer, harvested the wheat in the autumn, spread frozen manure in the winter. When your fingers pressed the strings, the sounds they produced weren’t as solid as before. They no longer obeyed you.

Vignettes of growing up during the Cultural Revolution, first as a child in Beijing, then as a youth exiled to the countryside. I really enjoyed this one - the vignette style made it easy to dip in and out of (in a good way). Told in two parts (well, three, including the poetry at the end, which I’m not sure rendered all that well in translation), it quietly grew on me, and I would have loved to see it on the International Booker shortlist (alas). Our narrator is a child in the first part, and the vignettes reflect the way children often see and recount things without really fully understanding them, often with a matter-of-fact ghoulish curiosity about what (but not why) is happening. A minimum basic knowledge of the Cultural Revolution is very helpful (even if it’s just reading the Wikipedia page), particularly around the encouragement of denunciations and the forcible mass movement of young people to the countryside. The second part is more considered - the narrator is now a teen/young adult and is clearly more cognisant (and critical) of what is happening around and to him. The two parts work together well and create a strong overall novel, and I loved seeing the maturation in the narrator’s thought. The Cultural Revolution is usually presented in terms of horrifying statistics about the vast numbers of people who were affected, but Zou distills it into an individual experience, and it’s impossible not to consider the psychological havoc that must have been wreaked on those who lived through that time, particularly children and teenagers. The writing is very matter-of-fact and blunt throughout, perfectly suiting the brutality of the time - life was cheap and expendable in the eyes of the Party - but the gallows humour around the sheer absurdity of some situations or Party directives provided unexpected (and greatly appreciated) moments of levity. A powerful story of the wasted lives, desperation and daily tedium of the Cultural Revolution - told in vignettes, it quietly grew on me and I highly recommend it.

Bits and pieces of memories from childhood and sent to a farm to be re-educated during the Cultural Revolution. Very reflective and poetic. Being roughly the same age as the author made it a particularly poignant read for me.

Had to read this a bit at a time because it was so bleak, upsetting, and uncomfortable. Kept coming back to it, though.

Glad I made the effort to seek this book out & read it. An interesting story, beautifully written & therefore, a great translation. Some really thought proving passages

Complex work of literature here.

I loveee a strange literary novel with philosophical commentary on time, finding joys in the mundane and the traces that we leave on the world!!!! on the calculation of volume was so unique and the fact that a new literary fiction series exists (when so little do) makes me so happy This is absolutely a vibes > plot read and I would truly only recommend it to those who reach for these kinds of stories. following a protagonist who is stuck in a continuous loop of the eighteenth of November, the Groundhog Day can definitely feel repetitive.. however, the ways that solvej balle was able to capture such magic within all of the repetitiveness and mundanity, was superb! verryyy excited to read volume 2!

This is one of those rare books that’s become a sleeper hit, its buzzy status steadily creeping up since its initial English translation last year. The basic idea is, I think, pretty well-known by now: a woman lives the same day, the 18th of November, over and over again, while everyone around her – and, seemingly, so far, everyone else in the world – remains ignorant of this phenomenon. It’s easy to see why On the Calculation of Volume has become popular. Despite the high-concept premise and the literary cachet of ‘seven-volume novel in translation’, it's very easy reading. The style is straightforward and often repetitive – although I can imagine it being frustrating for some readers (and I got tired of a few recurring phrases), I thought this was a clever, effective way to underline the sheer boredom and disorientation of living inside a repeating day. I was gripped almost against my will. I was carried along. The funny thing was that even though I knew the time loop couldn’t possibly be resolved in this instalment (this is book 1 of 7!), I was on the edge of my seat rooting for Tara to escape it. I had what at first felt like a slightly petty issue with the narrative: Tara reads as much older than late 20s; in fact, I only know that’s how old she’s supposed to be because a reading guide on the Booker Prize website told me so. While actually reading the book, I thought I was reading about a woman well into middle age. The more I thought about this, the more it expanded outwards into further questions about the story – some frustrating, some intriguing. There’s an almost dystopian aspect to Tara’s existence with Thomas, which seems remarkably old-fashioned for two youngish people in what appears to be the present day. I guess this might be explained by the fact that the author worked on the book for many years before actually publishing it. It could also be an intentional choice to make the story feel, deliberately and uncannily, timeless and time-less, with the unavoidable side effect of making the characters seem older. Yet Tara and Thomas are cut off from the world in other ways, too. It strikes me as notable that Tara never (that we know of) contemplates visiting any relatives or close friends in a whole year of looping days. I also found it interesting to read others’ reviews of the book (which I only looked at after finishing it). Everyone sees their own thing in this story, and the range of interpretations is much wider than usual. For me, it has a sci-fi premise and I want Things To Happen in future books. This is a story in which a woman can live inside the same day for a year; is it a story in which other things are strange too? Will any of the unanswered questions raised by part 1 be addressed in part 2? Are key elements of Tara’s life missing simply because, with six more books to go, something has to be held back? Will On the Calculation of Volume prove to be a speculative epic or, less interesting to me, a literary ‘meditation’ on something or other? A lot rides on where Balle goes with this story next. But the ultimate proof of its success lies in the fact that I definitely want to read the next instalment.

Winner of the 2022 Nordic Council Literature Prize, in the original and for Volume I-III And in translation: Shortlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize Longlisted for the 2024 National Book Award for Translated Literature My name is Tara Selter. I am sitting in the back room overlooking the garden and a woodpile. It is the eighteenth of November. Every night when I lie down to sleep in the bed in the guest room it is the eighteenth of November and every morning, when I wake up, it is the eighteenth of November. I no longer expect to wake up to the nineteenth of November and I no longer remember the seventeenth of November as if it were yesterday. On the Calculation of Volume I is Barbara J. Haveland's translation of Om udregning af rumfang #1 by Solvej Balle. As the name suggests this is just the first instalment of a longer novel, to be published in 7 volumes, five of which have appeared in the Danish original, with this and the second Volume to be published on the same day in the UK in April 2025 (I read the US version, which was published last year). I'm a little surprised/disappointed that the International Booker judges didn't take the braver decision to nominate both Volume I and II together as one choice in the same way that the Nordic Council did. The basic premise of the book is like that of Groundhog Day - although the author has said in an interview for Worlds Without Borders that she had the idea in 1987, and didn't watch the movie for sometime: "when I finally saw it, I realised, ah, that’s a lot of nice research for my idea, because I realised it was so different." The novel is told from the perspective of Tara Selter, living in 'a two-story stone cottage on the outskirts of the town of Clairon-sous-Bois in northern France' with her husband Thomas, who she first met 5 years ago, both antiquarian book-dealers specialising in illustrated works from the eighteenth century. I am the one who travels to auctions and visits antiquarian bookshops while Thomas takes care of cataloging and shipping. To begin with we did everything together, but we have gradually split the responsibilities between us. I’m not sure why it fell to me to do the traveling. Maybe because I don’t mind traveling so much and maybe because I very quickly developed a certain instinct for the books, a feel for the paper, an eye for the quality of the printing, for a well-crafted binding. I don’t know what it is, but it’s almost physical, like an inchworm testing whether a leaf is worth creeping across, or a bird listening to insects moving in the bark of a tree. It might be a detail: the sound when you flick through the pages, the feel of the lettering, the depth of the imprint, the saturation of the colors in an illustration, the precision of the details in a plate, the hues of the edges. But Tara is locked into a repetition of the 18th November. As the novel opens she tells us I have counted the days and if my calculations are correct today is the eighteenth of November #121 ... That is why I began to write. ... Because time has fallen apart. Because I found a ream of paper on the shelf. Because I’m trying to remember. Because the paper remembers. And there may be healing in sentences. The novel consists of a series of journal entries which Tara makes to document her experiences, over the first year and a day of her experience, starting on that 121st day, the first entries necessarily rather backward-looking and with lengthy explanations of her stories, but the later entries sporadic and sometimes quite brief. We learn early on that Tara's first November 18th took place on a trip, via a book fair in Bordeaux, to Paris, where she was to spend the nights of November 17th and 18th, visiting book shops in search of certain works as well as seeeing her friend, Philip Maurel, at his antique coin shop, specialising in Roman coins (which, I believe, becomes more significant in later volumes). The only real incident of note that day is that, while spending the evening with Philip and his girlfriend Marie, she burns her hand on a heater: I let out a cry, an expletive probably. Marie came over and managed to move the heater while I stood there, paralyzed by the pain for a moment. Having deposited our plates in the kitchen Philip promptly reappeared with a bowl of cold water into which I plunged my hand, and for the rest of the evening I sat like that, with my hand immersed in a bowl of water, although this did nothing to ease the pain. That was the only unusual thing to happen that night. Tara's hand immersed in water is a link to Archimedes 'Eureka' moment, and gives the series its title, the author noting "however, she has to take a long journey towards understanding, while Archimedes only had to submerge himself for a moment to gain insight into how to calculate volume" (from an interview in Tank Magazine), although Balle herself seems unclear if this was or was not a crucial moment, and indeed one of the interesting things in this Volume, and the work generally, is the sense of a writer working through the implications of their ideas, alongside Tara, as each writes. But when she wakes the next morning it is November 18th again, as she realised at the hotel breakfast, first noticing that the newspapers are the ones she read yesterday: It was only when one of the hotel’s other guests dropped a piece of bread on the floor that I began to worry. Not because I don’t know that this sort of thing happens again and again in hotels all over the world, but because the same guest had dropped a piece of bread at that same spot the day before. Unlike Groundhog Day, Tara is free to escape the confines of Paris, and, crucially she doesn't start each day physically renewed, her burn healing rather than disappearing, even though she doesn't reenact the accident: This is the 121st time I have lived through the eighteenth of November and the burn is still visible as a slender scar on my hand. It started out as an angry, puffy weal. This soon began to weep, then a long, brownish scab formed over it. Little by little the scab loosened and fell off, leaving a shiny pink mark. Her initial reaction on that first repeated day is to call Thomas, explain what had happened, and, both rather confused, return to him and their house in Clairon-sous-Bois. But when they both wake the next morning, it is November 18th again, and he has no memory of their conversation and indeed can't understand how she can be there given she was in Paris on the night of the 17th. He didn’t doubt that I was telling the truth. He had spoken to me and had forgotten it. That was what scared him. It was one thing for me to have encountered a fracture in the normal progression of time, but the idea that he had played a part in my day and that he had had conversations and done things he could not remember obviously gave him the same feelings of faintness and unease which I had had when I saw that slice of bread drifting floorward. That strange moment when the ground under one’s feet falls away and all at once it feels as though all predictability can be suspended, as though an existential red alert has suddenly been triggered, a quiet state of panic which prompts neither flight nor cries for help, and does not call for police, fire brigade or ambulance ... that something which cannot happen and which we absolutely do not expect, is nonetheless a possibility. That time stands still. That gravity is suspended. That the logic of the world and the laws of nature break down. That we are forced to acknowledge that our expectations about the constancy of the world are on shaky ground. There are no guarantees and behind all that we ordinarily regard as certain lie improbable exceptions, sudden cracks and inconceivable breaches of the usual laws. [which is an aside, is rather how most of us are feeling about the world in the new US administration] At first, she starts each day explaining her predicament to Thomas (who doesn't doubt her, and who she is easily able in any case to convince with predictions of certain external events such as a neighbour passing by) and the two try to work through the implications of what has happened, and is happening, although only she retains memories of where they had got to in their thinking in previous days. We could not find the mistake. We could not find the reason why time had fallen apart. There was no reason. I could not find a reason, Thomas could not find a reason. We could find patterns and we could find inconsistencies. Thomas was the pattern, I was disturbance. We devised theories and frameworks which we compared to the events of the eighteenth of November. We debated perceptions of reality and mental dysfunctions, we considered whether I might be generating trains of fictional experiences or whether everyone else had been struck by some form of amnesia, or whether we had stepped into a wave of psychological incongruence. We propounded theories and mounted counterarguments. We read about parataxic views of time and variable chronometry, we unearthed descriptions of fractures in time and chronotoxic recurrence. We explored theories on parallel universes, multiple worlds and relative temporal structures. We found stories of the morphology of memory and of rare cases of amnesiac chronopathy. We discussed theories of repetition and mnemonic defects. We studied mental processes, the objects of the world, temporal sequences. We collected theories and explanations. Actually, though, we had no shortage of explanations, we had plenty of those, but explanations which could stand up to critical scrutiny and at the same time embody all our many observations, those we could not find. And meanwhile she tries to prolong that sense of waking each morning, unsure if it really is November 18th I don’t think it was an act of will, but slowly and almost imperceptibly I managed to extend my sense of neutral, indefinite morning. I concentrated it, intensified that pale-gray awakening and with each morning I found it possible to carry that sensation with me further into the day. After only a few mornings I could hold onto the moment long enough for it to encompass everything in the room around me: the bed linens and Thomas’s body beside me, the wall behind the bed and the wardrobe on the other side of the room, a chair with clothes on it, the morning light, the faint sound of a chimney flue door rattling in the wind. These are familiar sounds and sensations and it is still an ordinary morning, it is spacious and open, and I lie in bed while fragments of the world drift in and dissolve: a brief riff of birdsong, a blackbird defying the gray skies or a robin singing into a pause in the rain, three or four notes to start with, then six or seven, then eight, and each one as it burst forth dissolving in my fog. But as time goes on, around the 76th day, she realises this is getting nowhere - "I stood in the kitchen with the notebook in my hand and knew that too many days had come between us" - and starts to withdraw, moving to a spare room, and trying to conceal her presence from Philip, observing but not interacting with him, as he goes about his daily routine, one which, of course, never varies. She also develops their theory that "Thomas was the pattern, I was disturbance" to another "Thomas is the ghost and I am the monster", as she realises that while his actions leave no trace on the day (food he eats is there to be eaten the next day), that's not true of her own actions, realising that the local supermarket is gradually becoming depleted. And as the 366th day approaches - the day that had time progressed normally would be, once again, November 18th of the following year - she decides to return to Paris and Philip's shop, reasoning that she may be able to break out of the cycle somehow. But given this is Volume I of VII it doesn't need a spoiler alert to say things don't work out that way. This isn't a novel for those looking for science-fiction like explanations of what may have happened, but what distinguishes it is the wonderful prose, in Haveland's exceptional translation, and, as mentioned previously the sense of an author working through her ideas - on his Substack, Lincoln Michel appositely describes the novel as "Groundhog Day written by Rachel Cusk." It's something of a frustating choice for a prize list, as this does feel like part of a larger work, rather than a whole, but still a fascinating choice, and this passes the test that I immediately wanted to read Volume II. The judges' take On the Calculation of Volume I takes a potentially familiar narrative trope – a protagonist inexplicably stuck in the same day – and transforms it into a profound meditation on love, connectedness and what it means to exist, to want to be alive, to need to share one’s time with others. The sheer quality of the sentences was what struck us most, rendered into English with deft, invisible musicality by the translator. This book presses its mood, its singular time signature and its philosophical depth into the reader. You feel you are in it, which is sometimes unnerving, sometimes soothing, and this effect lingers long after the book is finished.

It’s the 18th of November, and Tara Setter wakes yet again to the same day, every morning it’s precisely the same and so she no longer expects to get to the 19th of November as this day has been repeated 121 times so far. Along with her husband Thomas, Tara is an antiquarian book dealer. On the 17th of November she travels by train from her home in Clairon-Sous-Bous in Northern France to a book auction in Bordeaux, she buys a few books and takes the return journey, staying overnight in Paris as she has an appointment the next day. In addition Thomas asks her to collect and find a few rare book titles. The following day does not seem unusual, errands are run and appointments are kept and she spends a pleasant evening with a coin dealer friend and his girlfriend. Fast forward to the 364th Groundhog Day, can she break the pattern? If you want to read something a little bit different that is well written than this book may very well fit the bill. However, it is worth noting that this is the first of a series of seven. Book one is comparatively short and although I think it’s a little bit slow it’s not in least bit dull, in fact it’s an intense read. The sensation she feels of the state of stasis, of the constant repetition are beautifully described. It’s so unsettling with the improbability of it all. You witness how her feelings change with every repeated day, her close intense observations of other changes and the hunger for an answer accompanying the fears she inevitably feels. It is obviously all on the same theme with the monotony of the repetition of each day and of course her inevitable desire to finally get to the 19th but I find something intriguing in the high-quality writing and of course, she does notice some tiny points of difference. I especially like how the author deals with Tara‘s relationship with Thomas which is a fascinating thing and you witness his bafflement and willingness to understand but also how things change between them. The ending can be viewed in one of two ways, either it’s not at all satisfactory because …. spoiler… or you’ll be eager to see what happens next in the next volume. Where do I stand? I’m intrigued enough to want to continue to volume two, as to whether my enthusiasm will be sustained to volume seven entirely depends on what happens next! Overall, I think this is a beautiful written novel with a terrific, smooth translation from the original Danish. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to the publishers for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

Longlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize. 4.5 Stars. Somehow Tara Selta has slipped out of time. Tara can tell by the sounds as soon as she wakes, that she is again living the same day. This will be the 122nd time that she has experienced this day, the eighteenth of November. Everything is exactly the same, everything happens exactly the same. Tara and her husband sell antiquarian books, but her husband has not slipped with her. Each day he wakes he has forgotten everything Tara has told him about her bizarre predicament, and he does not share the day again. Well he does but for him it is simply a new day. The narrative takes the form of a numbered diary. I thought wouldn’t the diary just reset the same as everything else with the next iteration of November eighteenth. But there are things that do not revert back to their original state. If Tara eats something the next day it is missing from the supermarket shelf where she purchased it. If she takes a kettle into her room, the next day it is there in her room with her, not back in the kitchen. There is something about this book, which is a series of seven, that just grabs you. You find yourself wondering along with Tara just how in the world she is going to get herself out of this situation. Also reliving the same day over and over has some sort of calming effect. Tara listens to the sounds, she buys a telescope and scans the constellations, always looking for a change. I will be reading all of these!!! :-)

An interesting premise that had me thinking what if this was me. I become trapped in a time loop on the same day over and over again. Those I know, family and friends, work colleagues etc all have no recall of that day. Although the same day is repeated, my body continues to age. Some things stay the same, others do not. Food for example. The food disappears as I eat it from the place of purchase and go back on the same day, except it is a new day repeated, and some things are the same but not the food that I purchased, it has gone. Some days I go into my hated job, other days I don’t go there at all. But I wake up each day to the same date. But then in another place! It is all so unpredictable. This, day after day for an entire year until the book ends. Maybe not, as there are 7 volumes in total. Imagine knowing this. A cerebral take on a time loop for those that want a cerebral take on a time loop.

How would you feel if you would wake up every morning on the same date, knowing how your day will go, at what time it will rain, when a car will pass in front of you and what will your partner tell you? Would u be able to explain every day to your people, that experience the day for the first time, what is happening to you in order to stick together? “On the Calculation of Volume I” by Solvej Balle, will make you reflect on those questions and dare you to pick a day of your life that you would like to live and experience again and again. The book describes in repetition a single day in Tara’s life, that for a reason which is unknown to us, she wakes up repeatedly in the same date, the 18th of November, living the same sequence of events daily. And as the time passes she forgets how the day before was and she loses hope that she will ever live the day after. The writing is really beautiful and the story captivates you since the beginning; in a way that you turn every page with the hope that Tara will wake up at some point on the 19th of November, feeling her stress and frustration when it doesn’t happen. It is a book that reads easily but feels like a meditation exercise. Even though it belongs to a series it reads as a standalone, with an ending that is beautiful and appropriate. This is a book about time falling apart and losing its meaning. Time standing still and not making sense. Patterns and inconsistencies. About our lack of understanding about how time works. Forward progression, variations of the same day and the traces we leave behind. A story about being trapped to a dead end and living your life in a time capsule, or in replica. About days starting all over again. Repetition and suspended predictability. Inertia and consuming of your every day reality. It is also a book about memory, nostalgia and forgetfulness. Adding details in the map of your life. Coincidences, once irrelevant that now mean the world to you. About books, peculiar hobbies and the healing nature of writing. A story about love, connection and communication within a relationship. Days together and time spent apart. Finding a way forward together or feeling alone and disconnected. The beauty of having someone to act as your anchor and the fear to continue your life when this person drifts away. Mostly though, this is a book about anticipation and patience. Not losing hope and closing the circle. The knowledge that everything changes and the acceptance that our lives resemble to travelling with no itinerary. The fact that our lives are remarkable because they are improbable and unpredictable. This is a 4-4.5/5 for me! Why should you read “On the Calculation of Volume I”? Because you will understand that time is relative and notions like today, yesterday and tomorrow can mix and lose their essence. Because you will reflect on how it would be to be caught in eternity while your other half slowly gets older and drifts away. Because you will realise how small is the space and time you occupy in this vast world and how little your activities matter on a certain date. Because you will acknowledge the beauty of the unpredictability of life and feel grateful about its strangeness. Because you will feel how odd it is to be unsettled by the improbable, since each one of us is a collection of possibilities or impossibilities. Favourite quotes: “That is why I began to write. Because the paper remembers. And there may be healing in sentences”. “It seems so odd to me now, how one can be so unsettled by the improbable. When we know that our entire existence is founded on freak occurrences and improbable coincidences”.

Tara Selter began the 18th of November not knowing it was the first of at least 365 November 18th’s that she would go on to experience. Stuck in a time loop, a parallel universe, whatever it is that has happened to her, she cannot find a way to escape this repeated day and again join time’s onward continuum. Tara goes through many phases throughout this year. In denial and depressed and then determined and optimistic, her perspective on her situation changes though the date does not. Most consequential is the fact that her husband is not stuck in this time loop with her, or rather, he is, but whereas Tara’s consciousness of her situation is uninterrupted, her husband wakes up on each November 18th with a clean slate and a blank memory (this, of course, calls to mind movies like Groundhog’s Day and even 50 First Dates). Tara, memorizing the details of this never ending day, takes solace in the patterns of her and her husband’s lives. After she has decided she cannot go on explaining her situation to him each and every day, she exiles herself to the guest room, escaping for walks and nourishment when she knows he will be out. Tara’s diary-like accounts of her repeated days evoked feelings of claustrophobia and hopelessness. Yet, there was something beautiful about the overabundance of details that she gathered, that she was given the time to slow down and notice when normally they would come and go without a second thought—the shifting of the clouds, a beam of sunlight filtering through the trees, the sound of our loved ones existing. Melancholic, but hopeful. I can’t wait to dive into Book II.

This is the first instalment of a seven-part series of novels about a woman, Tara Selter, who wakes up every day on 18 November. Somewhere during the night, things are reset and return to how they were at dawn on the 18th. And so the day endlessly repeats itself, in a loop, with only Tara noticing and growing older and trying to escape, but also somehow enjoying the monotony of everyday life and the intimate knowledge of each and every sound. As you read, the hope of an escape - or at least some development towards solving the mystery - is always in the back of your mind, as she enlists the help of her partner or returns to place where it all started...but deep down you know the pleasure of a solution is probably not going to be granted. Solvej Balle is a Danish novelist that I had not heard of before, but apparently enjoyed some success in the nineties with works inspired by Kafka and Borges. This 'Calculation of Volume' series is said to be her big comeback. I enjoyed it a lot and am quite eager to get to Part 2, but I wonder if I will have the patience to sit it out until Part 7...

very excited to start the second one

so so good I need the rest of the series asap!!

Okay, I'm onboard for at least four more of these

This is one of the more unusual books I’ve read recently. The protagonist finds herself in a surrealistic situation in which her 18th of November is repeated over and over again. The phenomenon occurs only to her. To everybody else everything is “normal”. She must somehow find a way to break out of the trap.

No one should dare to define this book in any way.

Just adored this. I had no idea what I was getting in to and now I cannot wait to continue the progress in book 2. I adored the start of this, an examination of one's surrounding in the most precise manner caused by one woman's groundhog day living the same day over and over with no sign of escape. I had never thought about how crushing this predicament would be, regardless of the fact it is fictitious. Tara's mind is imploding upon itself as she finds no escape from living the same day in November in perpetuity. The way the author brings us into this story, an examination of sounds and echoes in a house, had me hooked. It is a fast interesting read and worth the time spent. Read it.

Dahlia de la Cerda writes with pure RAGE, and rightly so. 10 women are murdered EVERY DAY by men in Mexico, yet only 5% of cases ever result in conviction. These interlinked short stories give voices to those women, before the final story ignites a galvanising call-to-arms which will leave you just as fuming as the author. It's brutal but so compelling, with a bucketload of personality.

you had me at "In the linked stories of Reservoir Bitches, thirteen Mexican women prod the bitch that is Life as they fight, sew, skirt, cheat, cry, and lie their way through their tangled circumstances." https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... i didn't remember adding this book, but i'm so glad i read it anyway. in the same way, these days i have mostly given in and admitted that short story collections aren’t my favorite way to read, so i’m not too sure what made me overcome that instinct and add this one anyway. maybe that excellent title + cover combination. this is so entertaining and dark and readable. it kind of reminds me of a more literary version of when I would read justin bieber fanfiction and none of us 15 year old suburban children knew how to realistically convey immense wealth so we would just have fun with it. honestly i wouldn’t call these stories so much as “amusing and in turns horrifying vignettes,” but i had a good time here. bottom line: crazy and fun.

* Longlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize * You hear a lot about books that have a strong “voice,” but it takes a special talent to feel the gnash of sharp, gritted teeth through which that voice is propelled. The narrators of Dahlia de la Cerda’s Reservoir Bitches speak with a startling urgency across lucky number 13 harsh tales spilling equal amounts of blood and black humor. These are voices that read as if they are being shouted right into your face—’you’re here for me to tell you how I got where I am, not to hear me spout proverbs and shit. So buckle up’—smelling booze on their breath as the words cut the air between you sharp and swift like a knife pulled in a back alley of the parts of town where ‘houses got smaller and smaller, and the wrong kind of people moved in,’ that makes up the scenery of these stories. Populated by migrants, drug cartels, wannabe Instagram models, assassins, sex workers, politicians and more, these stories and voices have been brought into English by translators Julia Sanches and Heather Cleary for a fluid rendering that earned a spot on the longlist for the International Booker. ‘Women always speak, think, and act from the memory of our pain,’ de la Cerda writes and, plunging the reader into lives of women on the brink of disaster, women trying to survive poverty or living under the violent of patriarchy and transphobia, de la Cerda delivers cutting social critiques in these stories where the narrators often bite back. It is one wild ride. ‘Being a woman means living in a state of emergency.’ The threats of aggressive men and the horrors of femicide lurk within every page of this stunning English language debut of stories. ‘Masculinity is like marzipan: fragile as hell, queen,’ quips a transwoman in Sequins, yet this fragile masculinity also shivers in violent outbursts as life and death are balanced on the edge of a knife for the various narrators. ‘Mexico is a monster that devours women,’ de la Cerda writes, ‘Mexico is a desert of pulverized bone. Mexico is a graveyard full of pink crosses,’ and many of the stories here confronts the long legacy and tragically growing issue of femicides in Mexico where more than 2,500 women have been murdered in the past decade, not to mention the countless number of women who have simply disappeared. The problem became a global news story centering on Ciudad Juárez where the killing of 370 women and girls sparked conversation about gender violence around the world (Roberto Bolaño’s novel 2666 is largely based on this). Worse, a 2021 report showed that 94.8% of violent crimes face no legal consequences. As one woman says in the story Yuliana, this is part of why ‘women always speak, think, and act from the memory of our pain.’ This is a pretty harrowing collection where death is always a turn of the page away. ‘I’m angry at the world, and I swear I hate all men. I hate them. I see the assholes who did this to you in every single one of them. And I’ve found ways of channeling my anger.’ The women featured in these stories are backed into a corner, but they often come out swinging. Two seamstresses are forced into violent defense against an intruder in God Forgive Us—one of several stories with recurring characters, God Forgive Us pairs with God Didn’t Come Through which features a woman cutting up a man’s body and displaying it on a bridge—a teen mom cuts off a deadbeat dad in Mariposa de Barrio, a woman becomes an assassin, and more. The drug cartels are lurking through many of these stories and the sudden entanglements of characters often turns deadly, recalling the Quentin Tarantino film Reservoir Dogs from which de la Cerda playfully adapted her title. ‘Life’s a bitch. That’s why you gotta rattle her cage, even if she’s foaming at the mouth,’ we are told, and the women here are ready to rattle. ‘You get used to killing,’ says La China, a drug cartel assassin who appears in mutitple stories, ‘I’ve got no qualms about my job, and that’s the whole truth.’ A harsh world is often met with harsh responses here. ‘I started stealing cause life fucked me sideways, mijo’ These fast-talking characters take us through some gritty territory, but de la Cerda keeps the book from descending too bleakly into nightmares by keeping it afloat on some rather wonderful dark humor. There are multitudes of great quips and insults, though the variety in voice and tone is left wanting and it would be difficult to place which speaker fits which story were you to open to a passage at random. Hardly a complaint, however, as there is a really exciting variety of characters behind the sharp voices and we are often told a story from beyond the grave such as the appearance of La Negra, the ghost of a victim of sexual violence in The Smile. There is also plenty of intersectionality in the collection and the issue of transfemicide is approached, particularly in the hard-hitting story Sequins. Violence against trans people has been declared an “epidemic” by the Human Rights Campaign, so much so that there is even a Transgender Day of Remembrance on November 20th of each year, and in 2024 there were 36 murders in 2024 and 43 in 2023 of trans individuals in Mexico adding to the issue of femicides. While a tragic issue, it was nice to see de la Cerda address it here. ‘No one is ever ready for the death of someone they love. But this wasn’t death. It was theft. You were stolen, violently ripped from my side…you were one more body in this genocide. Another nameless woman adding to the death count. Another pink cross.’ A harrowing collection that raises awareness on important issues of gender violence while also delivering stories like fists of fury at the patriarchy, Reservoir Bitches is one hell of a read. Fast, ferocious, and often funny despite the hellish content, Dahlia de la Cerda’s prose comes screaming of the page and ensures that the voices of Mexico’s marginalized people are heard loud and clear. And in that there is some much needed comfort. 4/5 ‘Soon, even though I was crying, I spread my wings. Just like the song says.’

Longlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize He killed her because she was pregnant. He killed her because she didn't want an abortion. He killed her because she wanted an abortion. Disposable motherhood. Disposable women. I killed her because I loved her. I killed her because she was mine. How can you prove misogyny in court if the murderer says he loved her? Love is misogynist. Reservoir Bitches, a collection of 13 short stories, is translated by the superstar team of Julia Sanches (Eva Baltasar, Munir Hachemi, Gabriela Wiener, Claudia Hernández), nominated for the Booker for the third consecutive year, and Heather Cleary (Roque Larraquy, Fernanda Trías, Brenda Lozano), and the in-your-face prose is a striking feature of this work. The original Perras de reserva by Dahlia de la Cerda was published in 2022, although an earlier version in 2019 included only the first 9 stories in the collection, the latter 4 added when it was republished. The author has said her aim 'was to show a variety of diverse women, in very adverse, complex contexts, and to have them different voices from those that had been heard in literature' and explains her background on her website as follows (ChatGPT translation): Nací, crecí y actualmente vivo en Aguascalientes, una ciudad de un millón y medio de habitantes en México, profundamente católica y conservadora. Crecí en colonias populares y barrios, y pasé parte de mi infancia en la sierra de Jalisco, en una comunidad con una relación compleja con el crimen organizado. Estas vivencias han marcado mi mirada y mi escritura. Soy acompañante de abortos autogestionados, tengo una estética cholo-gótica, amo el terror y me apasiona explorar la violencia en sus múltiples formas. Provengo de una familia ajena al arte: mi mamá y mi papá se dedicaban a la administración de bares y cantinas. I was born, raised, and currently live in Aguascalientes, a city of one and a half million people in Mexico, deeply Catholic and conservative. I grew up in working-class neighborhoods and barrios and spent part of my childhood in the mountains of Jalisco, in a community with a complex relationship with organized crime. These experiences have shaped my perspective and my writing. I am a companion for self-managed abortions, I have a cholo-gothic aesthetic, I love horror, and I am passionate about exploring violence in its many forms. I come from a family unrelated to the arts—my mother and father worked in the management of bars and cantinas. The first 9 stories major on the violence both inflicted on, and, in revenge, inflicted by, women. Four of the 9 - Juliana, Constanza, La China, and Regina - are linked and give the first person account of four young women linked, in different ways, with a drug lord - one, Regina, dies at the hands of an abusive step-son of a para-military, but then is brutally murdered in a revenge killing by La China, the bodyguard of Juliana, daughter of the drug lord and heir to the cartel. And there I was, still broken up over Regina's death. I got to thinking: "I'm filthy rich, next in line to one of the most powerful capos in the world, my best friend is an assassin who works for a murderous militia, and I'm here crying because some fucking dipshit killed my Regina. What a little bitch. Malverde, drag me to hell." One night we got wasted, and I dropped it on her. I told her I wanted her to take that fucker out and offered her a heap of cash, early retirement, and a corrido. La China was already rolling in dough and had no interest in retiring, but she liked the idea of a corrido, can you believe it? I found out later she had a special hatred for dudes who fuck with women. She told me that every time she heard about one of those assholes, she felt like she was the one getting beaten and took it personal. The aesthetic here links to the novel's title - the original title 'Perras de reserva' is just one vowel removed from 'Perros de reserva', as the Tarantino movie was named in China, but Reservoir Bitches works equally well. But if this is a setting of those with wealth and power, or at least access to it, two more paired stories, God Forgive Us and God Didn’t Come Through, tell either side of those with less wealth, a group of three spinsters who, in self-defence, kill what they assume is a young boy trying to break into their house, but who turns out to be a young woman who dresses very differently to the plastic-surgery enhanced designer-clothes wearing princesses of the 4 linked stories. Ever since I was a kid, I've been real strict about my threads. All that bullshit about dresses and princesses is for daddy's girls. I'm vata loca to the bone: Ben Davis pants with the pleat down the middle, XXXL checkered shirts, and starched white crew socks pulled up to my calves. Braids, blue hankie, sunglasses. I stuck on a hairnet whenever I headed out to work so I'd look like a banger and dudes would shit their pants. And it worked, mijo. One time I drew a huge 13 on my face with a sharpie, then headed out with my janky 13 and baggy pants. The first dude I stepped to went white as a sheet and handed over his wallet in a blink: "Sup, bitch. Want a taste? Didn't think so." I was a thief, a gangsterette with principles. The three stand-alone stories of the original 9 were for me the weakest - Parsley and Coca-Cola (a story of a self-abortion); The Rose of Sharon (a woman slaughters her son, thinking this is God's will) and Marioposa de Barrio (a young woman breaks up with her boyfriend over WhatsApp). This last does make a particular feature of something that runs through the collection - music, mostly Mexican, and from a variety of genres, often more traditional / old fashioned than one might expect from the collection. I'd strongly recommend sampling this playlist a reader has very helpfully assembled on Spotify. The final 4 stories, added to the 2022 collection, dial up the supernatural side of the horror, particularly the first three The Smile, Sequins and Playing with Fire. The Smile has a murder victim coming back to half-life and taking bloody revenge on her rapists; the narrator of Sequins, a transgender woman, is also brutally killed and resurrected, but walks off affirmingly into the sunset with others such as murdered Argentinian transgender activist Diana Sacayán. Playing with Fire has someone envoking the devil against their annoying neighbour: The first time he answered my call, he was dressed as El Charro Negro, the second as El Carín, and the third as Juan Gabriel. This time he showed up in ostrich boots, a gold shirt, and a hat, with a gold tooth and a gem-studded pistol. "What can I do you for?" he asked, his cowboy outfit melting like wax to reveal a red furry back, chicken feet, and goat horns. "I want you to take my piece-of-shit neighbor Teresa to your kingdom or send her back where she came from. The final story La Huesera is the collection's strongest for me, and also rounds it off brilliantly. The title is taken from Selva Almada's journalistic non-fictional novel Chicas muertas, translated as Dead Girls by Annie McDermott, which is explicitly referenced in the text and quoted as advice by a psychologist to the story's narrator (slightly disappointingly the English quotation doesn't use McDermott's translation). As with Almada's novel, this story concerns the victim of a femicide and is narrated by her friend in the form of a letter addressed to her as she processes her grief. She first recollects their time together, including the last time she saw her, both goths but with a secret taste for more sentimental music (as well as wannabe punks PXNDX). I think of you every time I hear a song by Vagón Chicano. I remember the distant look in your eyes. The way you'd pretend you weren't peeking out the window to see if Señor Vikingo was coming. Sometimes he disappeared for a whole week, but he always came back, making that weird noise he called his grizzly bear roar. And you would race out to meet him. One Saturday you said to me: "This time he won't come back." And we got wasted listening to that Vagón track over and over, the one that goes: Don't leave me without saying a word. But whispering, though, because we had reputations as goth baddies to protect. On their last night they were together at a club featuring 80s metal, including Iron Maiden and Spanish band Ángeles del Infierno, but the narrator's friend never made it home and her bosy was found some weeks later, raped, tortured and murdered. Which leads the narrator into a realisation of how prevalent femicide is in Mexico: Every two hours and twenty-five minutes a woman in Mexico is strangled, raped, dismembered, burned alive, mutilated, beaten to a pulp, and left with bruises and broken bones. A woman's body, another woman. Some woman, a nameless woman. A powerful collection which grew on me as I read it, and, as mentioned, brilliantly translated. A mini playlist of my favourite songs. The judges' take Reservoir Bitches is a blisteringly urgent collection of interconnected stories about contemporary Mexican women. It absolutely bangs from the first page to the last. It’s extremely funny but deadly serious and we loved the energy and flair of the dual translators’ approach. It packs an enormous political and linguistic punch but is also subtle, revelatory and moving about the ways in which these women hustle, innovate, survive or don’t, in a world of labyrinthine dangers. This book weaves the riotous testimony of the living and the dead to create an expletive-rich feminist blast of Mexican literature.

4.5 The thirteen interwoven stories that make up Dahlia de la Cerda’s debut short story collection are incredibly raw and unflinching portraits of Mexican women navigating violence, poverty, and systemic oppression. De la Cerda’s style is simple and unadorned, but these stories have a visceral immediacy that I found deeply compelling. The collection is essentially a chorus of women speaking from the depths of their pain—sometimes in defiance, sometimes in resignation—but never sanitizing or softening the brutal realities they portray. These women are not passive victims of tragedy; they are agents of their own narratives, wielding their anger, sexuality, and wit as weapons against the harrowing world they must face each day. These stories present a society in which violence against women is the status quo, where, as one character puts it, “being a woman means living in a state of emergency.” Despite the bleakness of these stories, they all carry a note of dark humor and a deep refusal to succumb to despair. This collection doesn’t ask for permission, nor does it offer much catharsis, but the sharp-edged clarity of the writing made this a great read, even in its most brutal moments.

I mostly enjoyed this collection! Some of Dahlia de la Cerda’s stories are clearly hyperbolic, but others might be less exaggerated? Like, maybe someone really would sleep in their friend’s mausoleum because they missed them? I couldn’t always tell, but I don’t think my confusion got in the way of my enjoyment. There’s a wide emotional range across this collection. Stories like The Rose of Sharon are hilarious until they aren’t (a woman praying for God to “deliver her” from her husband), and La China’s action sequence was superb from start to finish. I appreciated how connected these stories were, allowing us to see many different angles of a character or event. While there are some common themes across contexts (gentrification and colorism, for instance), I was uniquely struck by how haunted this collection was by the grace reality of femicide. This grotesque sort of murder is certainly not an anomaly in the US, but it is less in the open. In Reservoir Bitches, Dahlia de la Cerda places brutality against women on the center stage. There is nowhere that these characters can turn to escape this oppression, on a societal or personal level. The final story, La Huesera, is a moving exploration of the boundless loss that femicide creates on a societal and personal level. Throughout the collection, I think de la Cerda threads the needle well on this—keeping both the forest and the trees in sight. Would be so curious to know how this book was in the original text, but until I learn Spanish, I’m thankful for the translators!!! Recommended to all those who can proceed given the following TWs: graphic depictions of sexual violence, human trafficking, torture, murder, and specifically femicide.

Devastatingly humorous, yet apprehensive. It’s funny how contasting my emotions were throughout these stories – as I found myself laughing in one story, and on the verge of crying in the next. Cerda’s short stories blew me away as she tackles themes that centralise in feminism and women’s rights. Upon reading, we learn that it transcends inequality and is focused on human rights in general. Cerda expounds on the double standards that are often overlooked in our society, and she tells the stories in an unapologetic manner. Although fictional, the themes are very much substantial and it will make you uncomfortable. These messages are so vital and I highly recommend this book. TW: rape, abuse

Book Review-Mac’s Problem by Enrique Vila-Matas A retired lawyer fancies himself a writer and decides to keep a notebook in which he writes his observations. Living in Barcelona, in the section he calls Coyote, he wanders the streets meeting with neighbors, merchants, street beggars and strangers. One of his neighbors, Sanchez, is an accomplished novelist who often hangs out at the local bookstore flirting with its attractive storeowner like he was a “puffed up peacock.”. Mac decides that one of his writing projects will be a rewrite of Sanchez’s best-known work. His entangled thoughts and fantasies result in an internal dialogue which drives the narrative. In several of his books Vila-Matas explores the creative process. In Mac’s Problem he is focused on the short form. Mac prefers poems and short stories to longer pieces of fiction and sites Ana Maria Matute: “the story has an old vagabond heart that wanders into town and then disappears…the story withdraws but leaves its mark.” This is a good description of the book Vila-Matas has written here. The book has numerous epigraphs, and he mentions dozens of creators whom he obviously admires and models himself after - Marcel Schwob, Alfred Hitchcock, Rimbaud, Roberto Bolano, Faulkner, Poe, Ray Bradbury, Orwell, Philip K. Dick, Perec, Raymond Carver, Ben Hecht, Kafka, Borges, Malamud (“whats next isn’t the point”), Hemingway, Robert Walser, Pessoa, Proust and many more. From this list one can gather the interests and contexts within which Vila-Matas concocts this piece of work. Writing in his notebook serves as an antidote to Mac’s aimlessness. His wife berates him as a “do nothing” person. Yet he ignores her lack of support, imagines her having an affair with first Sanchez and then the local tailor, and decides that “reality doesn’t need anyone to organize it into a plot; it is itself a fascinating, ceaseless creative center.” He imagines there being a group – The School of Difficult Writing – in which David Markson and William Gaddis are practitioners: “authors who, without actively seeking consensus, share the idea that the narrative is a process with no end point, no destination…the aim is to create a whole program of renewal for the game of the novel, a transformation in line with the need to give the novel a form that fits with our current historical circumstances.” He sees writing and “the history of literature as a kind of succession of works, a sequence of short story collections, that never stop in one place, which means they’re all susceptible to being given another turn of the screw”. This best sums up Vila Matas’s career and this book. Rewriting, referencing other creators, human history and the creative process is an ongoing process over time. As with his earlier books: Montano’s Malady, Bartleby and Company, and Dublinesque, Enrique Vila-Matas is a master gamer, a juggler, encyclopediator and student of fiction and life. Mac’s Problem carries on this theme and is a most enjoyable read.

This was an interesting glimpse at the evolving (devolving) psyche of the "author" of this diary, although I must admit that by the end I was lost, and wasn't sure what was reality and what wasn't, which may have been the point. Still, an entertaining read. I wonder how autobiographical this book was.

I'm lazy, and I'm not going to unpack this book. If you're familiar with, particularly French, post WWII literary criticism, you're going to immediately pick up on what is going on here. It will also instantly resonate if you're a fan of Svevo's Zeno, as you've something of the same sort of personality at play here. Not much gets done.

Enigmatic, yet endlessly engaging through its keen observations and distinctive central voice, brimming with so many subtly surprising sentence conclusions that it might just be the most underlined book I currently own.

if a book is long and character-driven, there's a 90% chance i'll like it. but that's just one of the many reasons why i was blown away by this one. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... susan choi's works can be polarizing, but i always find myself entranced by the intelligence and unflinching reality of her writing. in flashlight, as in her others, she brilliantly chronicles hard-to-like characters as they come up against the hard to imagine. choi is so skilled at writing wrongdoing, and the people that populate her novels are almost breathtaking in their flaws — selfishness, bravado, self-centering and victimization abound here. families resent each other, become each other. and yet you so clearly see the impossibility of their lives, the contradictions they face, the walls they build to inure themselves against them, that you can only feel heartbreaking sympathy. on top of all of that, this has a sneaking plot, a suspense that creeps up, hushed, in what seems on the surface to be simply a very well-done character-driven novel but reveals itself suddenly doubled. anyway. i thought it was excellent. bottom line: susan choi fandom wins again. (thanks to the publisher for the e-arc)

Now Shortlisted for the Women's Prize for Fiction 2026 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 Nominated for the National Book Award for Fiction 2025 Susan Choi's latest is an epic tale about a multinational family affected by the North Korean mass abductions of South Koreans: More than 84,500 people were kidnapped and brought to the DPRK against their will, both during and after the Korean War, from both South Korea and from abroad. "Flashlight" starts with a young academic disappearing from a beach - only his ten-year-old daughter Louisa is found in a hypothermic state, she barely remembers anything. The story takes us back to the many lives of the man who was born as Seok Kang, the son of Korean immigrants to Japan. There, he was known as Hiroshi to avoid discrimination, and later went as Serk as a student in the US, where he met his American wife - and then we follow his destiny in the present. His chapters are interwoven with those of other main characters: His wife Anne, who had a wild youth and suffers from multiple sclerosis; Anne's illegitimate son Tobias who survived a brain tumor and now lives like an enigmatic beat poet; Serk's and Anne's daughter Louisa who has a strained relationship with her mother while also resembling her in many ways; plus there are many captivating minor characters that drive the story forward and illustrate historic and societal circumstances, many of them related to the main cast, like the part of Serk's family that willingly left Japan for North Korea in the hopes of fleeing discrimination, as well as Louisa's and Anne's friends and acquaintances through the years. And while Choi planted many obvious puzzle pieces that will with great certainty show up again later, they eventually do form a well thought out image, with a designated place for every bit of information readers can gather along the way. And yes, the author talks major world politics, wars and the relationship mainly between North and South Korea, Japan, China, and the US, the human cost behind figures and dates and news reports. But it's not a chore to learn here, because the characters are so complex, psychologically plausible and captivating, and the plot takes on speed and turns into a bona fide historical suspense novel. Sure, it's not nearly as aesthetically complex as Trust Exercise, Choi's controversial National Book Award Winner that I loved, but it's an absorbing read that incorporates four generation of a Korean-Japanese-American family with admirable ease. The novel sometimes made me think of one of my favorite books, The Orphan Master's Son, which Choi does mention in her acknowledgements. And while I did not love Choi's achievement quite as much (Adam Johnson has this wild streak that I admire), this more conventional, sometimes a little too neatly wrapped approach offers great, perceptive writing, messy and thus realistic characters, and a multi-dimensional plot. Prize judges should certainly notice.

What happened just now is because of the way flashlights work. This book grabbed me and devoured me. I could not walk away. It called to me. When a book devours me like this, I give in completely and allow it. Gorgeous prose highlights the intimate moments of a family in grief. I loved diving in deeply with the characters. Flashlight never teeters on the surface, but it goes to all those places that are left forgotten or neglected. Flashlight does not blind you but illuminates small and very intimate moments. Even 'ugly' moments are made beautiful. Susan Choi captivated me on a journey through mixed cultures and utter emotional devastation. “Death is the only sure thing, but we never expect it.” Every sentence is a craft that deserves a framed case in a museum. "Love is, perhaps, the sensation of expertise that erupts out of nowhere, and as time goes on accumulates enough soil at its feet to be standing on something." "Electricity is part of nature. And the supernatural, whatever different people want to believe, is part of nature, too." "She felt included in the workings of the world, and in its movements among other worlds, and in whatever the great gyre was that encompassed them all. She felt, not quite that she could see beyond where she was sitting, but at least that she didn't fell blinkered, as she had by their window frame in the apartment, which was always crammed full of the ginkgo..." Towards the end there were a few chapters I could have done without, and I would have preferred a little more open of an ending. This was a beautiful read!

Susan Choi is an elegant writer. In My Education, she considers the thin and blurring lines between lightning-bolt love, emotional intimacy, friendship, and sexual ardor. In her brilliant novel Trust Exercise, she dives right into how much we can trust each other’s exercise, and ultimately, how much the reader can trust the author in her narrative. Suffice to say that this is an incredibly ambitious author, who takes her readers in unexpected directions. I was pretty sure I would love Flashlight, which promised to balance personal and historical narratives. And I did…sorta…until the love turned primarily to admiration. The novel begins with a short story that made its debut in The New Yorker and has since been fleshed out. Louisa, a 10-year-old, went walking on a Japanese beach with her father one night. Her memory is murky: she is found half-dead on the beach and her father is missing, presumed dead. A mystery is set up, but we only get to it through a lengthy, circuitous, and sometimes overwhelmingly detailed journey. The author spends considerable time crafting the characters and getting readers up to speed on the Korean diaspora. Serk, Louisa’s father, was born to Korean migrants – he spoke Korean at home and Japanese at school. In 1952, as an ethnic Korean he was made an alien registrant in the nation of his birth. Eventually he married Anne, an American, whose fling with a married man led to her son, Tobias, who will re-enter their lives. And then there’s Louisa, who grows up the troubled daughter of a remote father and a mysteriously ill mother, who lives with a huge hole in the midst of her life. She does not possess any events to fill the space between stepping with her father onto the damp sand and waking up in a hospital bed; the stories of her father’s death by drowning is one she somehow both authors and received passively. As a result, she wonders: what shapes does a life take when a change takes away all the points representing events and all the lines forming stories. Certainly, Susan Choi is an expert at a balancing act of exploring a complex history with a personal narrative that weaves its way through decades, continents, and memories. Like a flashlight, it shines its light on certain events and emotions while obscuring others and eventually widens the illumination. The role of identity remains central: who are we when we don’t really know all the details of who we are? I am so grateful to Farrar, Straus, and Giroux for giving me the privilege of being an early reader in exchange for an honest review. I do believe that lovers of luscious prose and historical complexities will devour this book. Although it didn’t capture me as much as previous books by this author, I applaud her for spreading her creative wings and admire its scope.

4.5 stars. Booker Book 5 of 13: 8.5 out of 10. I loved the first 75% of this book wholeheartedly. I loved the sweep, the digressions, the richly drawn characters: Anne, Soek, Louisa. It's been a long time since I have read a great American novel that goes so unabashedly in deep on character and relationships rather than ideas and artistry (compare Audition, which I read at the same time). It's very different than the other Choi that I've read, and is largely a rich layered old-fashioned family saga that also chillingly relates some dreadful episodes in Japanese and Korean history (interesting that the book begins in the same world as Pachinko - Min Jin Lee and Choi were the same year (a year behind me) at Yale (I have loads of mutual friends with both, but don't really know either), and my first (ignoble) thought was that Choi was trying to cash in on the success of Pachinko). Anyway, I just loved this book and found it entirely propulsive, even (sometimes especially) the episodes that I've seen criticized as digressions, such as the beautiful episode of Anne and Walter or Louisa's trip to Paris (which perfectly recreated so many things about student travel in that era). The North Korean chapters were chilling and riveting. The book slightly lost its way for me towards the end. Choi has a trick of having the gutpunch moments (except the very end) happen off screen, and I was OK with this, until some of the end material (a very long chapter in China and an overly long flashback on Anne's part) seem to be overly dilatory when I (the reader) was longing for revelation and resolution. I had never been frustrated with the pace or the doubling back before but then in the penultimate chapters, I suddenly wanted a tighter editorial hand. Choi does stick the landing though. The end is just as it should be. Highly recommended for anyone who loves long immersive reads that sweep through the 20th century - a departure from anything else I've read so far on the Booker list.

My first Susan Choi and it didn't disappoint. It reminded me a bit of Elif Shafak: she takes a topic of interest and then weaves an intricate plot with around it, criss-crossing continents, spanning decades, and at its heart an intriguing mystery. 'Flashlight' revolves around a dramatic event where little Luisa's father, an American immigrant of mixed Korean-Japanese descent, disappears on a beach in Japan. It is assumed he drowned but his body is never found. All kinds of subplots keep the reader guessing what on earth has happened, and in the process we learn more about Japanese-Korean post-war relations. It works well on audio too as it is plot-based.

You’re gonna have to work for this one. But the work is worth it if not for that exquisite ending. The family relationships are so real that they leave you feeling neither crummy about your own family nor puffed with pride. These characters are human with their likeable qualities and the ones that make them horrific pains in the butt. The brutality of daughters to their mothers. The meanness of husbands to wives. The superiority of wives to husbands. Daddy and daughter love. Step children trying to find their place in the pecking order. Sons loving their mothers hard. All of these relationships forging the river of living through these lenses: Aging Death with acceptance. Growing up and forging a real relationship with a parent. Taking care of parents in their last days. To me these interspersed themes far outweigh the plot of the story. The plot was complicated. The relationships were real. In sum it’s one of those books that left me marveling at the gift that an author has to written words.

4.5 stars rounded down. I found this novel uneven and I didn’t massively like the audible narrator which didn’t help. She was a bit breathy! There was stunning writing and very interesting questions posed. It made me do some research about Korean history and its relationship with Japan - I knew none of it. The characters were not likeable but that didn’t matter. At times I thought the novel was outstanding and I couldn’t listen to the last 30 minutes for a while cos it had got under my skin. It was definitely an uncomfortable novel and it is by no means an easy read in any sense but that’s no bad thing.

what a ride, a sometimes uneven reading experience. one thing is for sure despite my mixed feelings: susan choi knows how to weave together a complex story full of history and multifaceted characters. i had a difficult time getting into the beginning of this book. i remember particularly around page 20 i found myself stuck rereading the same page because i just couldn’t get into that flow state. once i got through each character’s introductory sections, i found it a lot easier to progress. i think my main hurdle was that i found the metaphors and sentence structure to be clunky at times. i am, however, truly impressed with the novel’s plot, following a family torn apart by korean and japanese conflict. while i’m no expert in the subject, this felt very well-researched and enough context is incorporated to explain the history that runs so deeply throughout this book. i’m glad i took my time reading and getting to know the characters - seeing how they reflect each other despite their differences and distance between them was really touching. choi doesn’t hold the reader’s hand. there were a few instances where situations felt important but were glossed over, and it got longwinded talking about things that were less relevant to the plot. despite my struggles with parts of the book, i think the themes it presents are very impactful and i can see why it was longlisted for the booker prize. kind of curious to pick up trust exercise to see what else choi has to offer. 3.5 stars

Susan Choi’s latest novel is an extraordinary work that artfully blends themes from family to the brutality of North Korea. At its core, it is the story of a family: Serk is a Japanese born Korean, who stays in Japan after his family is lured back to North Korea after WWII, receives an education and becomes a professor in the United States; Anne, his wife, is a tough, lonely Midwesterner, who is plagued by disease and choices made in her youth; Louisa, their child, is precocious, but suffers from having to bounce between her parents’ quite different personalities. When Louisa is 9, the family moves to Japan so that Serk can complete a one year academic position there. Serk and Louisa go for an evening walk on the beach. Serk disappears and is presumed dead by drowning, while Louisa survives. That sets the stage for the rest of the novel, which follows Serk through brutal imprisonment in North Korea; Anne through illness, the reappearance of the child she gave up for adoption, and life as Louisa’s mother without Serk; and Louisa through high school, college and life into adulthood. I feel that I am just touching the surface in trying to review this complex novel. Families, family interactions (or lack thereof), acknowledgement of family (or lack thereof), loneliness within a family, mother/daughter relationships and marriage are among the many themes deeply explored in this book. Just as powerfully, the treatment of Koreans in Japan during and after WWII, the brutality of the North Korean prison system, the rampant starvation in North Korea, and the position of North Korean refugees in China are themes as well. With beautiful language, Choi leads us to examine who we really are - - from our life in our family and our relationship with our other family members, to our life as a member of an ethnic group, and to our life as a citizen of a country. I likely originally chose this novel just because of its connection to North Korea, and at times I felt that some parts of it could be shortened. But upon finishing it, I know that this complete, multi-faceted, wonderfully written novel spoke deeply to me and merits its selection as a nominee for the prizes for which it has been nominated.

This certainly dealt an emotional blow and while I’m not always a fan of overly long novels I feel it was justified for this story. You really had to feel the progression of time and the events that transpired in the 30 years + to understand the impact of Serk’s disappearance on each of his family members. The writing was beautiful and immersive with character depth and development. It left me wanting to know more about these “taken” people, and I guess that’s the point.

For what it's worth, this book had the rare effect of making me gasp out loud in the middle. Beautifully done.

A flashlight illuminates one specific area while leaving the remaining space in darkness and that is exactly what Choi does in this complex novel. A fractured family saga, told by alternating characters that sometimes moves in a very slow meandering way and then it will jump to another timeframe. But I think that is exactly the author's intention; to focus intently on one scene while purposely just giving us glimpses in another area. Overall, a heartfelt story that brings awareness to a dark part of history and Choi gives an impressive list of books about North Korea that she used during research.

4.5 dare I say my favorite book of the year??? 🥲🥲🥲🥲🥲🥲🥲🥲🥲

flashlight a novel tracing a father’s disappearance across time, nations and memory. i have to admit that this novel intimidated me for the longest time and it wasn’t until it was long listed for the booker that i decided to get over my fears and give it a try. i’m so happy that i did, this is a stunning novel filled with complex characters that u don’t always understand but you do feel sympathy for. i will always love a book that gives us a deep look into a set of characters, bonus points if it happens to be a family that try as they might, don’t understand each other. i personally loved getting to know louisa, anne and serk. i loved their pov chapters as it gave a greater insight into them as individuals and then as a family. another thing i loved was the writing!!! it took me a bit to get into the flow but after page 20 i was fully immersed in the third person narrative. i do have to admit that during the second half i lost a bit of momentum, i also thought there were scenes/parts that bogged down the story (cough cough, anne when she was living on her own after louisa moved out for collage and louisa’s europe backpack trip) but the overall story was strong enough for me to push through!! i’m just a tad bit sad that that loss of momentum did cause me to lover my rating, the first 120 pages were SO STRONG and it did give me huge 5 star feelings, however i am settling for a 4.25 tysm fsg books for sending me an arc!!!

More dense than I had anticipated. Moved without much of a rush, but really came together towards the end

I’m not sure what to make of this fascinating but enigmatic novel, with its equally fascinating and enigmatic characters, who are so deeply flawed but still improbably sympathetic. Yes, the novel is marked by unexplained gaps and leaps in time and place, but there is an underlying coherence—you just need to be patient to see it revealed (even then, however, not all questions are fully answered). What I do know is that the writing is jaw-droppingly brilliant…these long, complex sentences that, in their descriptive and emotional weight, take your breath away. And the many embedded stories…almost set pieces in character and length…never fail to break your heart. I do recommend it…as one reviewer wrote, however, you’ll feel like it’s taken you hostage once you pick it up (which is both good and bad).

Reviewing Ken Follett at this point is difficult because I feel like I've said it all before. This is another lovely pastoral historical that follows the everyday lives of characters in Neolithic Britain. The formula works: we've got love stories, historical/technological developments (in this case, early carpentry and stonework), and shitty villains. Follett writes the best scumbags who you love to hate and here Troon was such a petty little tyrant that I enjoyed hating him so much. Don't be put off by the blurb telling you this is about the building of Stonehenge. As with The Pillars of the Earth, you don't have to have any great interest in architecture to enjoy the stories about all the characters surrounding the central building project. There's plenty of human drama, betrayal and heartache. In this time, there are three main groups of people: the herders who herd cattle, the farmers who grow crops, and the woodlanders who forage for nuts and berries. Each has their own ways and beliefs, and oftentimes they come into conflict with one another. When the land is hit by a devastating drought, some of them are willing to risk upsetting the others and clashes between the tribes become inevitable. I love how Follett makes everyday life engaging. There are the bigger political struggles always in the periphery but the focus is on the people, their families, and how they can survive and feed themselves for another winter. His depiction of societies where sexuality is fluid and sexual revels are the norm are a fun blend of archaeological theory and imagination. I'll read whatever he writes next.

Follett can always deliver an epic story in mammoth form. This one isn’t about 🦣 mammoths- it is a little later, beginning in 2500 BC. This is a fascinating story of the theory behind the building of Stonehenge. We meet the woodlanders, the herders, the priestesses, the farmers. The cultures of these different tribes - their traditions & values. Peace among them until one murders another and war breaks out because the gods demand a balance. Violence where there was peace; the fight for land; the near extinction of a tribe and the means with which they survive. The once harmonious tribes now face a fallen civilization with the only hope of Stonehenge becoming the centre to reunite these people. I did struggle with the some of the engineering details for which these rocks were moved. I also didn't have that character connection which I have not encountered when reading Follett. Yet, despite its shortfalls, it was still a riveting, rolling rock, kind of read. 4⭐️

The Mystery Behind Stonehenge How the heck did they build Stonehenge?! Have you ever thought about it?! Those sarsen stones in the outer circle are about 13 feet high (4 meters), seven feet wide (2.1 meters) and weight about 25 tons. So… how on earth, 2500 BC, did they raise those colossal stones?! https://www.instagram.com/reel/DO0TTw... According to Ken Follett it was a product of a combo : dream, geniality and hard work. Well… how many impossibles have been turned into possibles by that miraculous trio?! As for me, it was a wise explanation but… since thousands of years BC men were strong enough to erect stones with tons of weight, my guess is that humans lost a lot of potential with pollution … 😜 The Creation of Stonehenge is a mystery buried thousands of years before Christ. In The Circle of Days, Ken Follett digs that grave to provide a feasible version of the event. Congratulations Mr. Follett 👏👏👏👏 ————————————————- Stonehenge — O Enigma da Criação Stonehenge é um monumento megalítico em que algumas das pedras que o constituem atingem 4 metros de altura e pesam cerca de 25 toneladas. O segredo da sua criação jaz soterrado num passado que remonta a alguns milhares de anos antes de Cristo. Em O Círculo dos Dias, Ken Follett escava a tumba do mistério presenteando-nos com uma versão credível do acontecimento

“Circle of Days”, by Ken Follett 4 stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Set in prehistoric Britain, specifically during the Neolithic period around 2500 BCE, and centers on the construction of the monument we know as Stonehenge. The story unfolds on the Great Plain, a landscape divided by the tribal groups. This one was the most anticipated book of the year, for me (along with “My Friends”, by Fredrik Backman and “The Ekements”, by John Boyne). I pre-ordered a copy and even purchased the audiobook narrated by Richard Armitage, which I paired with the ebook. Listening and reading at the same time is quite an experience, especially with Armitage’s narration. I was captivated from the beginning by the storytelling and I could have read this book in one sitting, if I had started reading it on a Saturday morning or Sunday. As for the writing, I do not believe this was written by Follett, as the writing was too simplistic and even juvenile in some parts (but it wasn’t painful as in “Never” - the lowest rating I have ever given to Follett). There were some similarities to “The Pillars of the Earth”, so I believe that this book was conceived by Follett, but perhaps written by a ghost writer. Thanks to Armitage, I loved all the characters that I was supposed to love, and despised the ones I should. The interactions and dynamics between the characters were well displayed. I found the storyline to be very entertaining and interesting. His narration brought everyone to life and I couldn’t have enough. There are plenty of drama between the characters and tribes (woodlanders, herders, miners and farmers). There are plenty moments of brutality and gory scenes, that perhaps is a bit too much for some readers. As this is a work of fiction, I was not expecting any historical accuracy or evidence, but the creativity and speculation of the facts were quite interesting, although I thought that the language and even the attitude or way of thinking of some characters were way too modern. The development of the story has a perfect pace, but the building of the Stonehenge happens very late in the book. Yes, this book is not flawless, but I was completely enthralled, hence my ratings. Hardcover (Grand Central Publishing): 704 pages E-book (Kobo): 697 pages (default) Audiobook narrated by Richard Armitage: 19.2 hours (unabridged) at normal speed

"From a bestselling author of epic fiction comes the deeply human story of one of the world’s greatest mysteries: the building of Stonehenge. A FLINT MINER WITH A GIFT A PRIESTESS WHO BELIEVES THE IMPOSSIBLE A MONUMENT THAT WILL DEFINE A CIVILIZATION" It is 2500 BCE, and the tribes of the Great Plain are divided. Seth is a flint miner who is in love with Neen, a herder. Joia is Neen's sister, who becomes a priestess and has an extraordinary ability to lead and unite people. There are woodlanders, herders, miners, and farmers. We are introduced to characters from each tribe and follow them throughout the story. Seft and Joia are central to the story as Joia has the vision of what it is, and Seft has the talent to execute and plan this massive project. Ken Follett is a masterful storyteller, scholar, and historian. This project is massive in scope, and the ability to make something ancient come to life with relatable characters is remarkable. It does get somewhat bogged down in the minutiae of repetitive detail. The story would have benefitted from an edit as there were many similar situations repeated with characters. An author's note including Folett's resources and inspiration would have been appreciated after reading a 700-page saga. I really enjoyed the second half of the novel, where antagonists are stirring the pot to prevent unity and progress and encourage war among the tribes. The building of Stonehenge is absolutely spellbinding. There are many parallels to the present day regarding leadership, group dynamics, and women's rights. For historical fiction fans that enjoy detail and length, this one is for you. Many thanks to NetGalley, Grand Central Publishing, and Ken Follett for an advance reader's copy in exchange for my honest review.

Ken Follett has established a formula for his Historical Fiction books, particularly his Kingsbridge books. He applied the formulae to this book, to the point that while it is not a Kingsbridge book, it would absolutely fit in with the others. However, I believe this is the weakest application of the Formula. But even then, it’s a very entertaining book! The book has an excellent premise: showing the character drama of the various people responsible for building Stonehenge. We have some characters here, particularly Seft and Pia, who have really fascinating and interesting stories. But we also spend a significant amount of time following plotlines that aren’t near as fascinating, such as Joia, who is the priestess behind the movement of the stones. I understand what Follett was going for, but I don’t believe her story was as effective as he wanted it to be. We spend a majority of the first few hundred pages meeting the cast, which I thought was very solid. We also spend the last 150 pages actually working towards the building of the monument, which I thought was terrific. But there was a period of about 200ish pages in the middle where the character drama entirely buried the story, and it needed to be reworked. It did read as if the story was put on hold to show where everyone was at in their lives, and I believe Follett should have drawn out the building process and cut some of the drama. Follett also has a difficulty here that his other books didn’t have: a lack of sources for the time-period. The book is set in 2500 BC England, and as such we don’t know what life was really like. Follett makes a lot of assumptions here (and he’d certainly have to to write a novel on this subject). However, the character and worldview and perspective of the characters very often feels like it wouldn’t fit at the time period. During this time period, England was still very pagan and very Druid controlled. As such, Christian morality is not present at all and while I appreciate Follett trying to depict life as it would have been, I also think he went too far and focused on the wrong ideas and didn’t address the worldview issues well enough. I will say that this draws a sharp contrast to what we see in Christian societies, as this is a very different worldview system here. Moving on to something I really enjoyed: Follett’s use of tension in the few action scenes was really well done, as was the way he made me really invested in seeing the characters be successful, both in their personal and professional lives. We know going in that Stonehenge will be finished (obviously), but what makes the book work on so well is making me wonder if my favorite characters will make it. also, for goodness sake: Cut down (out) the R-rated scenes. My word, they are so present here. Overall, a very enjoyable book by Ken Follett. Very much following the Pillars of the Earth Formula, but entertaining nonetheless. 8 out of 10.

A sprawling storytelling achievement, Circle of Days hoists narratives strong enough to support massive weight. Themes in this book include applied manufacturing, torture, mechanical engineering, sex, mathematical theory, trade, gender roles and agriculture. Society is composed of farmers, herders, woodlanders, miners, and priestesses, each with a crucial and well understood role. They all get along and contribute to the greater good...for awhile...until wrongs are attempted to be righted through twisted applications of Hammurabi’s Law. Once an unbalance begins heads and logs roll. Follett never forgets the key to a good novel: use scenes to show what is happening. He does it very well and the most major plot point plays around the idea that a monument made of wood can be destroyed, but one of stone cannot. So, essentially Stonehenge. This is a very creative tale – call it speculative historical fiction. Whatever sub-genre Follett has developed since Pillars of the Earth he sits at the head of the table. Fans of this author will be very satisfied and it should bring in new readers. Circle of Days has Neal Stephenson vibes and is very much recommended. Thanks to Netgalley and Grand Central Publishing for a review copy.

Hmmm… it didn’t meet my own hype expectations, but I still liked it. I’ll have to think on this one for a minute.

4.5 ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Ken Follett's Circle of Days is a historical novel that tells the story surrounding the building of a monument that will define a civilization. First introducing the main male character Seft, a flint miner with a gift. Raised by a brutish father and two brothers, he seeks an escape by going to the midsummer rite, which signals the start of the new year, while also getting the chance of seeing the woman he loves, Neen. The second main character to this story is Joia, Neen's younger sister, a priestess with an incredible vision for the future and people of the great plain. Joia has a vision to rebuild the old monument in stone, with help from people assembled from the divided tribes of the plain. This assignment is going to be hers and Seft life's work, their legacy, however they will have to go though enormous trials and tribulations. Ken Follett's writing is simply excellent from start to finish, I was completely blown away. With this being my first book from such a talented author, the narrative writing style embedded with the lovely dialogue and detailed description made this such a gripping read. While reading it's very clear to see the amount of research that was poured into the making of this book, if you've never read Ken Follett's works before, then I highly recommend giving Circle of Days a read. You will be instantly hooked from the first chapter, not only are Seft and Joia's journey amazing to read, but you get to read about other important characters in the story. They all each play a significant role, I personally loved the way Ken Follett connects these characters to the main characters, it all perfectly drives the story forward. Never while reading did I find the story dull or mundane, it was simply entertaining and rich. I'm so happy I got a chance to read this book and I can definitely see myself reading it again.

Ken Follett certainly knows how to deliver historical fiction, and Circle of Days is no exception. Whilst not as epic as the masterpiece that is Pillars of the Earth, this novel delivers plenty of drama, emotion, brutality and awe-inspiring feats of human ingenuity. Centred around the eventual building of Stone Henge, we follow the lives of a range of characters from different tribes that reside on the Great Plain. As is to be expected, there are some nefarious individuals amongst these but that makes things all the more interesting. What I do love about these books is the fact that are not only very entertaining but also educational, and I found Circle of Days to be both. The only thing that I did find a challenge was the fact that it took a very long time for anything to really happen . Whilst the character development was good, it wasn't quite as impactful as I've come to expect and the pacing could've been better. That being said, this is very good read and one I did enjoy. It's also hard not be impressed with the amount of research that must go into a story like this! Thank you to NetGalley and Quercus Books for the ARC!

It's not a slight when I suggest that the plotlines in almost all of Follett's novels follow a like trajectory - identifiable, predictable, and rarely leaving the reader kicking furniture when the final page has been read. You know what you're getting into by opening the cover to begin with: pleasant protagonists, menacing baddies, tremendous task, strife within and without the family/community/tribe, some calamity, and a satisfying ending. This is no exception, and while not without peril and bloodshed, goodness once again prevails. A really nice read and fun take on the gestation and birth of Stonehenge as we know it today.

Circle of Days by Ken Follett Fictional history. The building of Stonehenge and the people of the times. Perhaps. 🎧 I listened to an audiobook narrated by Richard Armitage. The performance is intense and compelling with different tonal inflections and timing for the various main characters. Even though this story is over 700 pages, listening to the people grow, learn and fight for survival made time fly by faster than I expected. It’s an intense story and the audiobook kept my attention throughout. I did listen at my usual 1.5 and slightly higher to more closely match local conversation speed. Sweeping life milestones for the tribes, people and times. Someone had to be smart enough to build Stonehenge. That’s its standing is proof there are some smart people willing to commit to the effort. Tightly woven story of an epic task on top of trying to survive everyday life. I received a copy from publisher Hachette Audio.

Has Ken Follett jumped the shark on these historical fiction epics he so expertly writes? His newest novel is about the origins of Stonehenge on England's Salisbury Plain. While it's fascinating, he had to have just made up most of it out of his head since so little is verifiably known about Stonehenge, the construction of which began in 3100 BCE. Bottom line: It's just not as riveting as his previous books, especially when compared with the Kingsbridge five-novel series that begins with "The Pillars of the Earth." This is a long book at 700 pages, and the actual construction of Stonehenge—moving the first monolithic stone—begins about 75 percent into the story. Until then, two things happen: 1. Follett populates the novel with people stories of those who lived on and shared this land with each other, including the herders of animals who lived on the Great Plain and the farmers and the woodlanders who lived nearby. Each group has the same type of characters: the smart thinkers, the bullies, and the creative ones. There is a lot infighting in each group and violent battles between the groups. It's the good guys vs. the bad guys over and over and over again. And the bad guys never change. 2. The details of the engineering required to construct Stonehenge is a major part of the novel. (Unless you're an engineer, this can become a bit of a slog.) The three groups of people—herders, farmers, and woodlanders—come together for several festive days for rites at the Monument to welcome the new seasons, especially the summer solstice, which is their new year. It is a time for honoring the sun god, trading goods, and enjoying a bit of revelry, which involves some extraordinary sexual practices. Follett creates an interesting and plausible vision of why Stonehenge was needed. A group of priestesses live on the site they call the Monument, which is constructed just like what we know as Stonehenge but out of wood. It is their job to count the days of the year using the Monument as their guide. When the Monument is set on fire (see above: bullies and battles) and is essentially destroyed, the long-held dream of constructing it out of stone is finally begun, a process we know from archaeologists took more than 1,500 years. While parts of the book are fascinating, too much of it is stilted, convoluted, and tedious. The characters seem one-dimensional, since their life experiences do not result in change or growth. And worst of all, the dialogue is often wooden and monotonous. That said, there is enough of an interesting story to it that I am giving it four stars. Maybe I went into it expecting too much.

I’ve never read a Ken Follett book before - festive gift - and this is his latest and it was a really great story - just dive into the past and follow the events leading to the construction of Stonehenge. Tribal interactions- relationships and disagreements… great characters and the period is wonderfully imagined through research and to some extent storytelling imagination. Thoroughly enjoyable escapism

3.75/5 This was my sixth Follett novel and my first foray into one of his non-Kingsbridge books. If this wasn’t a Follett novel, I think I’d be far more impressed. However, I can’t help but compare it to The Pillars of the Earth series and it just doesn’t measure up. The characters feel hollow and the plot’s sluggish. Had I not borrowed the audiobook, I’m not sure I’d make it through a physical copy alone. I thought the story would focus on the planning and construction of Stonehenge but that ends up feeling secondary. The story primarily revolves around various tribes and their murderous clashes with lots of gratuitous sex thrown in the mix. All that said, even a somewhat disappointing novel by Follett is still a good book. I’m just glad this wasn’t the first book of his I read.

This author sure knows how to write! In this book we follow farmers, herders and woodlanders and the tensions between the groups. They keep pretty much apart, but come together for the midsummer festival. Quite captivating and with the usual Follett villains getting their karma in the end!

Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Circle of Days is an historical fiction novel about the building of Stonehenge. I enjoy well-written historical fiction because I not only get to read an engaging story, but also I get to learn about history and its people in a more palatable way than reading a history book. I have enjoyed many of Ken Follett's other series and hopefully this is the beginning of a new one because it did not disappoint. It was fascinating to learn about prehistoric people, how they organized their communities, how they survived, and how they moved those gigantic stones. I highly recommend this book for anyone who loves good historical fiction. Fans of Ken Follett will not be disappointed and hopefully his latest book will introduce him to new fans.

Longlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize I’ve come to terms with losing my mum, but I can’t come to terms with Mum coming to terms with losing her daughter. Is Mother Dead is Charlotte Barslund's translation of Vigdis Hjorth's Er mor død And given it's her words we are reading, it's disappointing that Barslund's name is absent from the dustjacket, and no biographical details are provided, so to rectify that here's the bio from the National Book Award website: Charlotte Barslund translates Scandinavian novels and plays. Recent novels translated include the Arctic crime novels The Girl Without Skin and Cold Fear by Mads Peder Nordbo, Resin by Ane Riel, which was shortlisted for the 2019 Petrona Award, and A House in Norway by Vigdis Hjorth, which was longlisted for the 2019 International Dublin Literary Award. Her translation of Per Petterson’s I Curse The River of Time was shortlisted for the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize. She has worked with writers such as: Samuel Bjork, Jo Nesbo, Karin Fossum, Thomas Enger, Jonas T. Bengtsson, Carsten Jensen, Lotte and Søren Hammer, Lone Theils, Steffen Jacobsen, Sissel-Jo Gazan, Jakob Melander, Jesper Stein, and Lene Kaaberbøl. She lives in the UK. Barslund has previously translated three of Vigdis Hjorth' novel of which I've read two: Long Live the Post Horn and Will and Testament.. When the original, Arv og miljø, of Will and Testament was published in Norway there was considerable debate as to whether the work, which Hjorth claimed as fictional, may actually be factual, or at least hinting at this, since many details of Bergljot's story mirror Hjorth's own. And in a bizarre twist, her real-life sister, Helga, recognising herself in the sister-character, wrote her own counter novel Fri vilje, as explained in The New Yorker In Helga’s novel, a family is torn apart when the narrator’s histrionic writer sibling makes false allegations of incest in one of her books.. And as The Guardian explained Hjorth’s mother, Inger, threatened legal action against a theatre in Bergen, which staged an adaptation of Will and Testament. Which makes for interesting context to this novel since, while less directly auto-biographical, the novel centres around an artist whose work caused a major rift with her mother and sister. Our first-person narrator Johanna is approaching 60 and an internationally successful painter living in the US. Thirty years earlier she shocked her family when she left her husband, a lawyer like her father, and moved to the US with her art teacher to live together and to pursue her artistic career (having herself given up on law school). Her parents and sister write to her with an ultimatum to return to Norway and her husband: They reeled of what it had cost them financially and emotionally to bring me up, I owed them quite a lot … They seriously believed that I would give up my love and my work because they had paid for tennis lessons when I was a teenager. As her career develops, her most famous paintings 'Child and Mother 1' and 'Child and Mother 2' were to cause further distress as they depicted an estranged relationship, which the family took as autobiographical. And a final rift came when Johanna did not come back to Norway for her father's funeral, leading to a complete stop of any contact between them. Now Johanna is back in Oslo for a major exhibition of her work and one day decides to call her mother, now in her mid-80s - in part as Johanna realises she may not even have been informed if her mother had died. But her mother declines, or at least doesn't take, the call. I don’t know what I would have said if she had picked up the phone. Perhaps I had hoped that something would spring to mind if she answered her phone and said, Hello? In her own voice. The situation was of my own making. I had chosen to leave my marriage, my family and my country almost three decades before, although it hadn’t felt as if I’d had a choice. I had left my marriage and my family for a man they regarded as suspect and a vocation they regarded as offensive, exhibiting paintings they found humiliating, I didn’t come home when Dad fell ill, when Dad died, when he was buried, what were they to make of that? They thought it was awful, that I was awful, for them what was awful was that I left, humiliated them, failed to turn up for Dad’s funeral, but for me things had gone wrong long before that. They didn’t understand or they refused to understand, we didn’t understand one another and yet I had called Mum. I had called Mum as if it was an OK thing to do. No wonder she hadn’t picked up. What was I thinking? What had I expected? That she would pick up the phone as if it was an OK thing to do? Who did I think I was, did I think I mattered in any way, that she would be pleased? Real life isn’t like the Bible where the return of the prodigal son is celebrated with a feast. I was ashamed to have broken my vow and to have revealed to Mum and Ruth, whom Mum would definitely have told about the call, that I was unable to stick to it, while they, my Mum and my sister, kept their vow and wouldn’t dream of calling me. They must have heard that I was back in the country. They probably googled me regularly, they had found out that a retrospective of my work would be taking place, that I had a Norwegian mobile number now, otherwise Mum would have answered the phone. Johanna finds herself, as this passage starts to suggest, imagining her mother's and her sister Ruth's lives, and hypothesising what they are thinking about her. And she soon takes this obsession another step further, tracking down where they each now live, and stalking her mother. Between her forays, her spying missions, into central Oslo she retreats to a log cabin she had hired in the woods outside of the city, where she both contemplates nature but also thinks back on her time up until she left Norway with her mother and her very strict father. The evenings grow shorter. From my hideaway I watch the last leaves fall, the dwarf birches blush, the moss turn grey, the grass lie down to sleep when darkness falls, insects die or hibernate, everything waiting for winter, for iron nights. A solitary cloudberry quivers in the shadow of the big spruces where memories wait, the hand trembles in November. Branches breathe in the darkness and the moors drink up the vast night there is whistling and creaking and I cling to this exhausted life as if it were a treasure. The novel is told in a beautiful style in Barslund's translations, with nature writing in contrast to the psychological intensity of Johanna's thoughts, and chapters with detailed recollections or current-day scenes mixed with pithy observations that occupy only a fraction of a page. And there is a running Ibsen theme with Johanna identify with a character from Vildanden (The Wild Duck): I’m Gregers Werle with his demand for the ideal who also forces a family to confront secrets from their past. There's a particularly powerful scene in the middle of the novel where Johanna's obsession extends to watching her mother dispose of her rubbish in the communal bins then retrieving the waste bag and taking it back to her cabin to see what she can learn. She finds, in the waste, a broken porcelain cup, the companion of one from a set of 13 that was broken when Johanna was a child. As she recalls the childhood incident she now sees it rather differently - at the time she was blamed for surprising her mother and causing her to drop the cup, but she now believes her mother dropped the cup deliberately as a way of expressing her frustration with her domineering husband, Johanna's father. Johanna reconstructs the recently broken cup as an artwork the style of kintsugi, perhaps representing her desire to repair their relationship. Only eleven Chinese porcelain cups remain in Mum's cupboard now unless other cups have been broken since I broke the thirteenth, perhaps Mum breaks Chinese porcelain cups on a regular basis, they all belong to her now, I imagine her hurling them onto the floor with great force, a liberating sight, Mum swearing like a sailor, Mum is clearing out the closet, but who is she raging against, me? Mum has done a thorough job with the dustpan and broom, all the pieces are here; with the help of a magnifying visor and a pair of tweezers I glue them back together, I paint the splices with liquid gold leaf. As Johanna's intrusions become more direct, Ruth and her mother become aware of them, and make it clear that they have no desire to have any contact. But Johanna is building to one final, direct, confrontation with her mother and with her own assumptions about their relationship and family history, one that doesn't necessarily give her the form of closure she had expected. Impressive and an International Booker contender.

Hauntingly beautiful and suffocating to a fault. A heartfelt story that tugs your heart at the deepest parts - to a point that it feels stifling. It will rip your heart out as we go in deeper and deeper into the narrator's train-of-thought ; somewhere that its like falling into an abyss of absolute nothingness. "“the relationship between mother and son and mother and daughter is different, because the mother is a mirror in which the daughter sees her future self and the daughter is a mirror in which the mother sees her lost self, ” There's something almost ethereal to this story - in terms of how it feels like to be reading into the narrator's thoughts - in which it felt almost like a blurred line between the past and the future; between reality and what is not. Reading the background story of the author and her previous work Will and Testament: A Novel, ( which I haven't read , but had gone through an interview of hers ) , in which the author narrates the story as like an autofiction of the strenuous relationship between her family, especially the one she has with her mother. Whilst the author neither confirms nor denies this, its somewhat almost looking through the lens of a person who has gone through such lengths and pains of their own and can be felt through the narration of the story. The narrator named as Johanna is a sixty year old woman who is in hopes to reconcile with her mother - (view spoiler) - in which she had walked out from her family. Its a constant journey of narration in proses that seemed like a journal of sorts - going back and forth to her childhood and the present in which she tries to find out truths about her past and present. Personal Ratings : 4.5🌟 The story had highlighted the complex relationships between mother and daughter and how a falling out can cause even a sixty year old woman to act out of what her age should have acted. It came to a point that the narrator became somewhat obsessed in what she 'felt' her mother will act or think - in somewhat giving voice to her mother - and following her every move. Honestly, in the case of the narrator and her mother, it won't be easy to pinpoint who is right and who is wrong. Their relationship and strain stems from generational trauma and the mental abuse that both the narrator and her mother had faced. It manifested into a series of blames and hurtful retorts , and lastly souring and burning the bridges of the relationship. “Surely parents have the lifelong obligation, unlike the child? According to the Bible, it’s the other way round, the child must honour its mother and father in order to live long in the land, but then again the Bible was written by parents to keep the offspring in their place.” Honestly, there's nothing hopeful about the story. It cuts your breath even if there were pages that has only a one-liner. The story is written in proses of thoughts in which you felt that you're intruding the deepest parts of the narrator in which she is at her most vulnerable. Whilst its suffocating, you won't be able to stop reading the story as the writing is so compelling, you'd be left only to want to finish the story, to find out if the narrator gets what she aims to get in the first place. The sense of helplessness and the narrator's hopeful wish to reconcile with her mother felt almost realistic. Not something that is easy to read, but is a read that I will remember for a very long time. The complex feelings that it left me after finishing it, makes the story a one that I felt worth of the International Booker Prize Longlist.

Pleasantly surprised by this book because I absolutely loved it. This is a Bulgakov/China Mieville style tale about a cast of characters living in Lviv and trying to get to the bottom of an environmental anomaly which is making the city smell like sea and the birds go insane. I have to say this is one of the funniest books I have ever read and at one point I was laughing so much I was wiping away years. It is such a hilarious little novel and I found myself to drawn into the characters and the world. It was brilliantly paced and structured with a mix of comedy and political criticism. Had so much fun with this book and I honestly adored it. I don’t know if I can take it seriously enough for the International Booker but I will be backing it with a glass of vodka all the way if it wins.

'Jimi Hendrix Live in Lviv' was longlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize and at first, I remember thinking this seemed like a strange pick for the prize based purely on the title. However (and listen up Jimi Hendrix superfans) this book had quite literally nothing to do with Jimi Hendrix - he was probably briefly mentioned by name about four or five times throughout the duration of 400 pages which I am kind of glad about as I didn't think I'd enjoy some sort of Jimi Hendrix historical fiction/memoir mix. Instead, we are given a magical realism novel that is very reminiscent of Bulgakov's writing who I loved. We follow two plot lines - Taras and Alik whose paths never actually overlap but they show us how they are experiencing a very strange environmental anomaly in different parts of Lviv. The characters themselves were all very likable, if not a little bizarre. I would never have picked this book up on my own accord, had it not been nominated, but this was actually a good book with just all round good vibes.

I went into Jimi Hendrix Live in Lviv by Andrey Kurkov expecting something wild, maybe even chaotic- and in some ways, that’s what I got. Just not always in the way I hoped. The premise is a group of aging hippies gathering around the supposed buried hand of Jimi Hendrix in a Lviv cemetery, while strange, almost supernatural events ripple through the city. It feels like the setup for something profound, or at least delightfully surreal. All in all, the book is enjoyable. Kurkov has this light, playful touch - his characters are eccentric in a way that makes you want to linger with them, and the whole novel has this hazy, slightly absurd energy. There’s humor, oddity, even a kind of warmth in how he portrays the city. Lviv itself ends up being the real heart of the book, lovingly rendered even as increasingly bizarre things unfold. But somewhere along the way, it also feels… a bit off. The plot wanders. There are threads - mysteries, romances, strange phenomena - that never quite come together in a satisfying way. It’s like listening to a bootleg recording that has moments of brilliance but never fully locks into rhythm. Even the Hendrix connection, which sounds so central, turns out to be more of a quirky motif than a driving force. That said, I didn’t dislike it. In fact, I kind of admired its looseness. There’s something refreshing about a novel that refuses to be tightly structured, that leans into atmosphere and character over resolution. It’s playful, a little messy, and very much its own thing - almost like magical realism with a shrug. In the end, I’d call it an enjoyable but uneven read: charming, strange, occasionally frustrating, but memorable in its own offbeat way. Still worth wandering through for the mood alone.

Just so deeply weird but I remember everything about it 3 years on so i guess 4*

This wonderful romp of a novel by one of Ukraine's most pioneering authors is funny and sinister at the same time. The novel is set in Lviv, in the heartland of Ukraine- one of the most beautiful cities in Eastern Europe. The cast of characters is breezy and lighthearted and at the same time dramatic in the background of some unknown sense of terror reminiscent of the 60's Hitchcock thriller The Birds starring Tippi Hedren and Rod Taylor in the lead roles. There is a continual sense of unease throughout the novel. The 'anomalous' weather becomes a nuisance in more instances than one with mad seagulls attacking humans and the bizarre but earthly smell of the sea (even though Lviv is miles away from the Black Sea coast) to a vagrant sailor dressed in tatters who induces symptoms of seasickness in humans. At the same time, the novel sets a theme of cultural reference in the novel with the reminiscences of the records of Jimi Hendrix and about the rumored last concert he was going to perform in Lviv. Besides that, there is a grave in Lychakiv, Ukraine where the rumored right hand of the legendary guitarist rests with the help of some Lithuanian friends and the CIA. In this aspect, Kurkov resembles a lot with Mikhail Gigolashvili whose novels (written in Russian) lays down pop culture as one of its major themes. Other readers might say that the novel should not be taken too seriously and it has its loose ends (and that it did not deserve to make it to the Booker International Longlist for 2023). But, most apparently, it was penned down by the author on the invitation of the mayor of Lviv himself, and the narrative is told with a lot of verve and energy, is fast-paced, and at the same time maintains uniformity in the atmosphere throughout. The characters are diverse and very likable and range from an ex-KGB officer to an aging hippy to one who makes a living driving kidney-stone patients over cobblestones in his ancient Opel Vectra and soon thinking of marrying his girlfriend. They might be funny and ridiculous but at the same time very enjoyable. An exciting and well-paced read, highly recommended!

In his acknowledgments for this book set in 2011, Ukraine writer Andrey Kurkov thanks the mayor of Lviv for inviting him to write a novel about their city. And Lviv, is, in a way, the protagonist of this strange but endearing tale full of political allegory, magical realism, and deadpan humor. First published in Russian in 2012, this English translation was published in the UK in 2023 and will be published in the US in August 2024; it was long-listed for the 2023 International Booker Prize. For the latter reason and because I read an ARC of this book, I plodded haltingly through the beginning. The story was slow to grab hold of me. But it was worth sticking it out. The novel opens with a group of oddball, aging hippies who gather annually to pay their respects to the late rock icon, Jimi Hendrix, on the anniversary of his death. [As a fan myself, I expected more about him and his music, given the title.] Specifically, they convene at the site of Hendrix’s buried hand in Lychakiv Cemetery in western Ukraine’s largest city, Lviv. The hand was allegedly smuggled out of the US, with some help from the CIA, by a Lithuanian KGB agent who got it to the Ukrainian KGB agent, Captain Ryabstev, who had been assigned to spy on the Lviv’s rock rams but became more enamored of the counterculture than he was of his job. What they loved best about Hendrix was his “strange music that the regional Party committee didn’t understand, with its strange but, thank God, incomprehensible foreign lyrics,” which they themselves knew. A bit of subversive fun. The human protagonist, Taras, is a paramedic school dropout who makes his living by driving Polish clients in his Opel Vectra over Lviv’s cobblestone streets to help them dislodge kidney stones, vibrotherapy. He falls for a strange woman, Darka, who works at a money exchange but has to wear long gloves because she is allergic to many things—including money. Then there are the more supernatural phenomena: sea gulls that laugh and attack; an overall scent of the ocean and the taste of salt water; a mysterious, wandering sailor miles from his home in Odesa. The appearance of the seagulls perplexes the residents of Lviv, as they are nowhere near the sea, and they are accompanied by strange vibrations and an overall sense of pain and dread. I believe that storyline is an allegory for the constant threat of Russian imperialism rushing back in, much like the Carpathian Sea that once covered the region. Prescient, considering Russia’s aggressions in 2014 and 2022. The writing is full of dry humor that took me a while to catch onto. And that may explain the problem I had at the beginning: Eastern European writing feels very different from Western European-influenced writing. It took some work for me in college to learn to appreciate Russian novels, given their heavy, dark, and often depressing subject matters and characters. Ukraine, and Lviv in particular, as it is close to Ukraine’s western shared border with Poland, has long straddled East and West, and it represents a unique perspective. Once I began to catch on to the humor and allegory, the book settled in nicely. That was on me, not the author. I will look for other works by Mr. Kurkov. Thanks to NetGalley, HarperVia, and Mr. Kurkov for the opportunity to read this advance reader’s copy ahead of its August 13, 2024 intended publication date.

I have read the Penguin novels so when I saw this book on the new books shelf in the library I picked it up. It is a gentler novel than the earlier ones, perhaps because it was semi-commissioned by the Mayor of Lviv. It was written in 2012 when Ukraine was still in the grip of a despotic ruler who was in the pocket of Moscow - so a bit of a feel-good vibe was called for. I don't really include spoilers until right at the end. Alik (a life-long hippie and now aging) and Ryabstev (the former KGB officer who spied on Alik and his friends 35 years earlier (when Brezhnev ruled the roost) are two central characters. Alik was a great fan of Jimi Hendrix - through listening in, Ryabstev also becomes a fan and becomes less diligent in his spying activities. He introduces himself to Alik on September 17 at a gathering at a cemetery where Hendrix's death is being commemorated: ostensibly his hand his buried here - Ryabstev claims it was the KGB who exhumed Hendrix's body and removed his hand. We also meet another main character - Taras - in this opening chapter. He accidentally nudges Alik with his old Opel. A lot of the novel is quite quotidian - tracking a growing friendship between Ryabstev and Alik, and following Taras's doings. There's a cute point where Alik locks himself one night and seeks Ryabstev's help - it just happens that he has retained a key to Alik's flat from 35 years earlier. Like me, Alik is sometimes mistaken as a homeless man because of his long hair. Taras is kind of a medical man - he has found that by driving the old broken-down Opel over Lviv's cobbled streets, he can relieve people of troublesome kidney stones. This has to be done at night and all his clients are Polish, and so he meets the delightful Darka - she does the overnight shift at a bureau de change. Quite the romance develops! His neighbour Yezhi is entranced by his friend Oksana and goes to extreme lengths to get her to trust him, including cutting the hair of 50 homeless people. I think the point of this is to establish a state of normality in Lviv - even if the individuals are all a bit odd. They go about their daily lives, going to great cafes which actually exist, such as Cabinet. Against this background, anomalies arise. Oksana has fish in a tank on her windowsill: a seagull smashes its way in to eat them. Other people carrying fish are attacked by seagulls. At these times, Lviv smells of the sea, and other sea-based things, like starfish, are seen. Lviv, of course is a long way from the sea. A theory spreads that somehow the Carpathian Sea is re-emerging. There is a hunt for vibrations - this didn't make much sense. A sailor is seen lurking around at night, and maight be the focal point of the anomalies. Now for the spoilery bit - there's an echo of Flann O'Brien here: in At Swim Two Birds, a novelist has trouble controlling his characters, to the point they gang up on him. In this book, Vinnychuk has the same problem - he ends up deleting his character, a sailor - but maybe it is this very sailor who is now stuck on the streets of Lviv. He does not affect people who are drunk, and has no effect if he himself is drunk - so how is he to be returned to Odessa? I don't know anything about Ukraine in 2012 except for its unpopular leader: is it possible that this book is suggesting that he is making the place stink and needs to be shipped off?

#jimihendrixliveinlviv by #andreykurkov Pub Date 4 Apr 2023 #pudseyrecommends 📚📚📚📚 Thanks #NetGalley and quercus books for the Advance Review Copy. “Jimi Hendrix Live in Lviv" by Andrey Kurkov is a quirky novel that invites readers into a world of eccentric characters and bizarre occurrences. The book's premise, centred around a group of people coming together to celebrate the anniversary of Jimi Hendrix's death, is both odd and intriguing. The inclusion of a buried hand, ex-KGB officers, killer seagulls and a runaway starfish adds to the book's whimsical and imaginative nature. Kurkov's writing style is engaging and skilful, allowing him to create memorable characters and vivid scenarios that captured my attention. The novel has been long-listed for the 2023 International Booker Prize. The book's strength lies in its diverse cast of characters, each with their quirks and idiosyncrasies. The author weaves their stories together, creating a tapestry of human experiences that readers can relate to and appreciate. Despite some occasional hiccups in the translation, the novel's charm and originality shine through. Readers who are able to overlook the occasional awkward phrasing or cultural references that may not translate well will find a rewarding and enjoyable reading experience in the pages of this book. Having said that, the publishers explained that the ACR/"proof edition" I was given to read "may not be final", so these hiccups may have already been dealt with by the time it reaches the bookshops. Overall, "Jimi Hendrix Live in Lviv" is a captivating and entertaining read that offers a fresh perspective on life and the human condition. If you enjoy unconventional and offbeat novels with a touch of whimsy, you will find this book a joy to read.

Jimmy Hendrix Live in Lviv is a hugely comical, downright brilliant novel, telling the stories of various loveable and detestable characters living in Lviv, Ukraine. Taras is a physician, of sorts; he uses unconventional means to relieve men of kidney stones, and he is falling in love with the strange but beautiful Darka, working nights at the bureau de change, avoiding daylight and physical contact due to her bizarre maladies. Alik teams up with an ex-KGB agent to investigate the unusual weather anomalies, as well as vicious seagulls, far from the ocean, circling the city and attacking unsuspecting residents. This book has a stellar cast of amusing characters, witty narration which will keep you wanting more, and is just political enough to contain an important message, but not in such a way that it overrides the genuine good nature of this novel. A worthy International Booker prize contender, I look forward to reading further work by this writer!

'The city stood firmly on the foundations of its homes old and new, the city clung vicelike to the earth beneath it with the roots of the thousands of trees that grew in the parks and squares, and along the roads within little stone borders.' As is indicated in an afterword, this is very much a love song to Lviv, a city that now is a household name for all the wrong reasons. This quirky little number from Kurkov was originally published in 2012, and this English translation from Reuben Wooley has made it on to the longlist for the 2023 International Booker Prize. Dual stories involve a blossoming romance between Taras and Darka (he drives patients with kidney stones over cobbles to help shift them, she works in a money bureau yet is allergic to banknotes) and a group of ageing hippies and an ex-KGB agent trying to make amends. This is classic Andrey Kurkov territory, the man who gave us the wonderful 'Death and the Penguin'. This time the odd verging on surreal element is the smell of sea in a city so far from the coast. Sea creatures start to crop up, and an angry mob of seagulls start to attack humans. When our characters discover what they think is the cause of this disruption, they fashion a way to save their beloved city. Involving and a joy to read, this isn't perhaps as engaging as his 'Penguin' book, but nonetheless this is an enjoyable read. 4 stars.

I think that Aki Kaurismäki would be right director for a movie based on this book: there's a a sense of surreal humour, crazy characters that made me think of Leningrad Cowboys Go America. It's also a love letter to Lviv and a well written book. Not for everybody but the righ book if you love weird stories and characters. Recommended. Many thanks to the publisher for this arc, all opinions are mine

I didn't love this book quite as much as 'Grey Bees' but it grew and grew on me as I read on and got to know the characters. This is what Kurkov does best - creating characters that you, or at least this reader - end up living with. They become your friends by the end of the book, mad as they are. Probably I'd give this book 4.8 stars. But I can't do that!

First finish of November! This one is quite a slow burner, and it‘s two story strands don‘t have any real connection, but there is something very warm-hearted about this novel, and though I was unsure about it at first, it became a strong pick.

An offbeat tale of lost souls brought together by strange occurrences in a city caught between epochs, with delightfully lilted dialogue that always seems to end in exclamation points. Not perfect but fun and moving, and premonitory given the current war.

I judged a book by its cover. Well, actually its title. You see, I've been a Jimi Hendrix fan since 1967, so I just had to find out what the guitar god was doing in Lviv, Ukraine. Nothing, as it turns out. He's dead. But the characters in this Marx Brothersesque romp are doing quite a bit.

Fans of neuroscience, psychology, sociology and complicated family dynamics will love this! Each character and their arc is so well fleshed out, so beautifully unique it could have been written by the characters themselves. That’s to say, the tone and language felt fluid and merged with the characters chapter by chapter. Whilst I lost the plot towards the end and guessed the ‘twist’ (although I don’t think the intention here was to surprise anyone) I thoroughly enjoyed the humour, the melody of the writing and really liked the wrap up of any loose ends, Without a doubt one of the best from my 2022 reading list but mostly due to the triplets.

This was an enjoyable read that was part dramatic family saga and part mystery and both sides were completely compelling. Well written, with well developed characters that were really engaging. I really liked it.

Now Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 Frankly, this starts out rather lame, as the first chapter is a mock-journalistic piece about an activist group illegally holding a rave in the country house of a finance bro, until one of the organizers, Jake, strikes down radical activist Pegasus with a gold bar stored on the premises. The language is an imitation of mediocre magazine writing, the story plays on cheap "eat the rich" impulses, white middle class Che Guevaras, and of course an ideologically flexible rage bait queen feeding on the digital attention economy. But then the story unravels: We learn how the article's author, freelance journalist Hannah, struggles since COVID hit and how social class and a changing media landscape impact her social and professional life - and what she does in order to survive, and we see disgraced banker Richard pressured between the expectations of his upper-class (ex-)wife, the relentless dynamics of the market, and the moral superiority of the media (which at the moment makes you think of the CEO who was caught cheating at the Coldplay concert - is the way he is getting humiliated all over the world a sign of the moral integrity of those who turn his family's misery into content?). We meet Lenny, who plays the attention economy like a fiddle, cynically thriving on the audience's impulses, because it's us who make people like Milo Yiannopoulos, and her whacky son Jake, you know: the one who attacks people with gold bars. And then there are the activists, wrapped up in their self-righteousness, far from reality. Brown refuses to give easy answers, to show a marketable good vs. bad dichotomy that appeals to the sense of righteousness on the side of the readers: Who doesn't want to feel like they are standing on the correct side of the cultural wars? But maybe the mediatized war is in large parts a scam to sell rage and fear, to keep us from talking about issues like class disparity and financial injustice, hence: to cement the status quo? In "Universality", there is no sense of coherence and solidarity anymore. People are leaving their jobs in the public service sector because they are disillusioned (understandably) and join well-paying genetics start-ups instead (less understandable), they lie about their heritage while claiming to reveal publicly relevant truths to secure their survival, they try to control a system that isn't even affected by any of their actions, they have stopped seeing how their perspectives are connected. This is a challenging read that defies easy interpretation, and it points way beyond post-Brexit Britain. Should be on the Booker list to get people talking.

Is a book written like a New Yorker article good literature? Yes. I was unsure at first, wondering if everything was only on the surface. But with every new chapter and shift in perspective - revealing who wrote the article, who commissioned it, and who is actually the villain - I saw a strong novel taking shape. The theme of economic wokism is not as striking as the more familiar identity-based wokism (see Rejection by Tony Tulathimutte), but the message is important. The world becomes unsalvageable if we create villains based solely on race and gender. Instead of solving real problems, we end up feeding a destructive game of perception - one with dehumanizing consequences.

Another sharp and slim read from Brown. Very different from ASSEMBLY, though it also considers questions of class and success. The beginning is a longform piece of journalism, and the remaining parts show us the writer and her subjects through a different lens. It lets us ask questions about the state of media, about criticism and commentary, about how politics can infuse the way stories are told even when it doesn't seem like it on the surface. I don't know British media well enough to know if there are specific figures Brown is basing these characters on or how much it resembles the larger picture, but there is enough that is familiar for it to really hit. There are questions here of messaging, of who is using who, of what the message behind a story actually is, and which stories get told. It strikes me as a little strange that we haven't had more novels about media given the upheaval its had in the last twenty years and the now-constant question of bias. Would love to see more if they can be as smart and savvy as Brown can.

Natasha brown is a genius tbh

Immediately after finishing this book, I didn't think I'd enjoyed it very much. I open my notes & highlights, I've highlighted paragraphs on paragraphs on paragraphs - all of which still make sense to me, without complete context. That tells me I did, in fact, enjoy this. The first section, A Fool's Gold, was the standout to me; no surprise if you read my reviews often, as dissection of the 'mother' role is my kryptonite. Across all sections of this book, Natasha Brown gives readers numerous opportunities to identify with the characters she creates. Written from a perspective of victimization, you navigate topics like sexism, classism, racism - a lot of the '-isms. Admittedly, comprehension took a lot more effort than I'd anticipated. This wasn't a book I could coast through or give only partial attention to. That being said, I'm going to wait until I have a little more mental bandwidth before I dig into her debut, Assembly, Assembly. {Thank you bunches to NetGalley, Natasha Brown and Random House for the eARC in exchange for my honest review!}

part news article and part novel, universality was a thought-provoking look at the language of the political vs. the personal and the way we talk about class, race, and privilege. we begin with an article about a man who was bludgeoned with a gold bar at an abandoned farm that was being used as an anarchist communal living space. we then follow the author of the article, the banker that owned the farm, and another writer who was involved. a lot of the characters were unlikable, but i think it worked to the book’s advantage and made its commentary feel even more poignant. i enjoyed the combination of forms and the fact that we got so many different characters’ POVs. the writing style was sharp and snappy, and i appreciate how much natasha brown was able to do in so few pages - i’d love to pick up her other novel assembly! thank you to random house for sending me a copy of this book - out now!

Terribly smart book. These people drove me INSANE and that usually means the book is hard won if not great. Not just super enjoyable to read but i found it brilliant. The ending was perfect.

Natasha Brown went to the Claire Keegan school of not wasting my time... A man is bludgeoned with a gold bar and a journalist is handed the story on a silver platter. Through her article a web unravels that encompasses a new age commune, a politically-confusing reactionist public figure and her drug-addled son, and a circle of former uni friends who find themselves pulled apart by the perceived moral precarity facing England. Assembly was my favourite read of 2021, and the pivot here was quite a jolt—until it wasn't. Viewing Universality as a companion to Assembly heightens both. Where her debut was focused, a singular perspective that became universal in its specificity, Universality is concerned with the multiple perspectives. If the Assembly dealt in why, then this is an exploration of the how. Because every character sees themselves as a victim, their failures can be chalked up to how society has failed them; their triumphs, of course, are entirely self-made. This is a scathing dissection of British class systems and meritocracy through an entirely different lens. I am absolutely obsessed with the final chapter, in which events come to a head at a writer's festival. Brown's powers of observation are genuinely insane, the level of satire, the accuracy of the ridiculousness. I think this will definitely appeal more to those with knowledge of the publishing industry and the identity politics of arts organisations. The more I've taken time to consider this, the better it becomes. Rich characterisations and a remarkable lack of bullshit. You know I liked a book when I only wish it had been longer, which I felt this could have been. So, so clever.

Universality is a big zeitgeist novella. It's satirical, a little bit wanky, very pointed, and has a lot to say about hot button issues like political tribalism, the modern media landscape, and truth (and its many versions). It's a novella that is very obvious about what it is doing, and also is very current, which I can see might be grating for some readers. I found it extremely captivating, and was engaged to read something as energetic, tight, and focused. It's very different to a lot of the other Booker longlisted novels this year, and I am interested to see how it fares. Feeling like the only person that hasn't read Assembly, I'll be adding that to the top of my post-Booker reading list.

Where to begin? Universality is a deliciously brutal little book. It's centered around both an event, and an object. The object in question is a gold bar, and the event is a person using the bar to harm someone else. When the book opens, we follow a journalistic account of an illegal rave, during which someone was bludgeoned with a gold bar. The scope widens, panning out until we can see it in its entirety. Everyone involved, and how their actions and beliefs affect everyone around them, until the first smash of the bar into the skull. And then the story shifts. And shifts. And keeps shifting. It's addictive and effective- I found myself pulled in a million directions. Ultimately, it's an examination of classism, racism, sexism (to name a few) and how these topics affect us all. I loved it.

“Words are your weapons, they’re your tools, your currency”. That aphorism echoes through every page of “Universality” by Natasha Brown, a novel that treats language not as something neutral but as a form of power; a book that shows how stories can be weaponised and how narrative exceeds the needs of a reportage and becomes capital. Set in modern Britain, late one night at a Covid lockdown rave in Yorkshire, a young man called Jake wields a solid gold bar, nearly killing an anarchist activist, Pegasus. At this point we meet Hannah, a burnt-out freelance book reviewer/journalist, whose life is transformed overnight when she investigates the assault. From this surreal moment begins a viral exposé that rocks British media. The novel unfolds in interlocking sections each shifting the perspective and reframing the truth. Part of the narrative kaleidoscope is Richard Spencer, a banker that owned the gold bar and the farm where the rave took place, and Miriam “Lenny” Leonard, an opportunist journalist/writer that happens to be Jake’s mom. This deliberately fractured structure is really inventive and subverts narrative reliability, inviting you, the reader, to question whose version of truths hold up. The story is extremely interesting and managed to keep me alert until the last page. Brown’s novel is a savage satire that reads as an intellectual puzzle keeping the experience immersive and exciting. Her prose is sharp, but it is the aspect of the book that I enjoyed the least; her language unfortunately does not vibe with me and in some occasions sounds pretentiously smart for no reason at all. Her characters though are beautifully crafted and instead of presenting heroes and villains, the author builds protagonists that are all morally compromised and multidimensional. Definitely an original read that for me is far better than her first book and I did enjoy a lot. This is a book about the power of language and the use of words as weapons or as capital. About marketable thoughts, luck and opportunism. The immense power of money, relentless capitalism and consumerism. The difficulty of opposing the current status. A story about the media scene and spectacles. Click bait culture and woke culture. About political activism, protests, the power of people and the fight for a better world. The need to build solutions. About communal life, anarchism and the idea of opting out of the system. It is also a book about narrative control and reliability. Objective articles and subjective storytelling layered with motive and bias. The need of rationality in journalism and libels written on the pursuit of a good story. A story about race and racism, class and classism. Privilege, equality and inclusion. People that make it and others that fade away. How class, race and outrage perform for the audience. The idea of “privileged minorities”. Mostly though, this is a book about social fragmentation and the illusion of universality. Polarised identity politics and cheap populism. The idea that the show must go on and the ridiculous truth that everyone is trying to manipulate everyone. This is a 4-4.5/5 for me! Why should you read “Universality”? Because, in the era of viral journalism, it will make you question how stories are constructed and how truth and misinformation is spread. Because it will make you wonder whether moral values and journalism can ever go hand in hand. Because it will make you reflect on the idea of using our genetic imprint to predict the likelihood of various life outcomes. Because it will make you realise how immoral can be possessing extreme wealth while other people live under poverty. Because it will make you understand that money can ruin your life, literally and metaphorically. Because it will make you think about the possibility that high paid jobs might be given to people not based on qualifications but on the basis of woke politics. Favorite quotes: “Class is the new race”.

Like Trust by Hernan Diaz, but colder, sharper, and British. Each version of the truth neatly sliced by class, privilege, and self-interest.

british ppl write about class in such a characteristic way…. i liked the various forms and perspective shifts but wish it was a bit longer!

Entertaining and clever. Punching in all directions! I really enjoyed it.

It’s mad how you can live in a city and never see any of this. Or you just see faint smudges of it every now and again around the edges of your existence but even then you don’t fully believe in it, because even though we live in the same city, where I’m from and where you’re from could be two totally separate worlds. Like say you hear about a shooting on a street you walk down every day on your way to work; it’s a shocking one-off occasion, a rarity, something to talk about, and every single violent incident that you hear of or read about becomes a one-off, or at least a surprise or a shock. But to others these incidents are just the punctuation of their reality. I read this book due to its longlisting for the 2020 Booker Prize – a varied, brave and innovative longlist, which in particular features a range of really diverse debuts. This is one of that group of debuts – written by Gabriel Krauze who has christened his writing as establishing a new "estate noir" genre. The Booker website sets out his biography: Gabriel Krauze came of age among the high rises and back streets of South Kilburn. He was not an observer on the periphery of violence. He was – personally - heavily involved in gangs, drugs, guns, stabbing and robbery - all while completing an English degree at Queen Mary’s University. And in the Author’s Note at the back the author tells us why this background is so relevant to the book – “Often the truth is disturbing and ugly everything in this book, in this story, was experienced in one way or another - otherwise I wouldn’t be able to tell it“ - because this book it seems is more fictionalized memoir than pure fiction, with a first party narrator, around 18-19 at the book’s opening around 2007 in South Kilburn; a narrator known to his friends as Snoopz but to his parents as Gabriel and to the probation service as Mr Krauze. It’s a story which describes London – the City where I work – but a very different London to the one that I or almost anyone I know would recognise, as the opening quote (and a number of other quotes in the book) acknowledges (see the end of my review also). The story opens with a burst of adrenaline – as Snoopz jumps out the whip, face covered in a bally to clamp a rich woman while Gotti does the eat, and tries to pop her Rolex (worth some serious p’s, likely even a number of bags), before they return to Big D who drives ahead in a posher car scoping the belly. We then return to his moving to South Kilburn at age 17 after finally leaving his Polish family (father, artistic mother and aspiring violinist twin brother) and moves in with the father of two boys he met at a grime Battle and from there we get the story of his increasingly deep involvement in drug taking, drug dealing, violence and theft (he goes much further than many of his peers in his willingness to take things to the next level without hesitation when either circumstances or pride requires it) and the penal system; while at the same time staying on the fringes of the postcode related gang culture (his Polish background and only temporary status in South Kilburn allowing him to stay one step removed) studying English literature at University and forging deep friendships and rather shallower sexual relationships. This lengthy quote I think gives a sense of the book much greater than I can otherwise convey. The next day is Monday so I have to go uni for a lecture and two seminars. Mazey and Gotti are still ko’d when I leave. When I get on campus, I buck Capo and we talk about how that Daniel yout got duppied and then later I’m in a seminar with people who know nothing about South Killy, nothing about their neighbours getting murdered and all that madness, and the class is talking about The Birth of Tragedy. Butterfly knife in my pocket. All I wanna talk about is how a man got slumped in the middle of a rave and how his killers are probably gonna get away with it, as if talking about it here, in uni, in the classroom, might make it normal, because since I touched uni, being around everyone catching jokes and studying and whatever has made me start to doubt that it’s normal. But in the end I don’t say anything because really and truly it feels abnormal that no one at uni talks about things like that when it’s going on in other blocks, in other ends like Pecknarm and Bricky and Hackney, and I barely take part in the seminar which is unusual for me, but all I wanna do is go back to SK and jam with the mandem. In the last ten minutes I snap back into the discussion – hand up – yes Gabriel? and I start breaking down the concept of the Dionysian and the Apolline, art as a beautiful end product that hides the dark and disturbing origins of its inspiration.Our seminar leader Dr Jerry Brotton says that’s good that’s good, says did everyone write down what Gabriel said? I say if anyone wants private tuition come holla at me. Everyone laughs and one girl says Sara would like some private tuition with you and the Iranian girl sitting next to her blushes deep pink burn and holds her book up in front of her face.. The book is scattered throughout with London road talk – a road mix of course of Jamacian Patios and US rap culture, with a strong London overlay, one which I found fairly easy to follow (with occasional use of Urban Dictionary) and one which I regretted thinking jarred with his white Polish background I’ve been getting this .. from white people for as long as I’ve been on the roads; I must be mixed race, I must be half black, feds saying are you half Jamaican? Mocking the way that I chat whenever I get arrested. All just a reflection of their instinctive prejudice towards anything in which they don’t recognise themselves, their way of doing, being, thinking. But it is also shot through with some memorable imagery – for example on being lockdown in prison: Always time to kill. Nothingness is long. Turns the day long. Makes it drip, but as it drips down, it doesn’t separate from its source, like honey or golden syrup, a long sticky string, and you’re waiting for the thinnest part of the drip to finally break and separate so the drop can hit the floor. But it doesn’t. The other thing that comes out very strongly in this book is authenticity. Every time a journey, an estate, an incident (a police raid, an accidental killing of a bystander) and so in is mentioned - you can check it on Google and see that it is real. But of course the greatest authenticity comes from Krauze's own experience. And I was impressed with the way that the book takes a different arc towards the end - forwarding further into Krauze's life as he starts to walk away from what his friends ultimately convince him is the ultimate destination he is facing. The author himself has talked about the transformative power of literature and how encapsulating this period of his life in the novel has finally allowed him to move on from it. An obvious (especially with the opening quote) but interesting comparison is with another Booker longlistee (from 2018) "In Our Mad and Furious City" - which was rather inexplicably not shortlisted but went on to gain lots of deserved recognition. That book had (I would say) greater artistry (the kaleidoscope of characters and voices, the compressed timescale, the strong narrative) but much lower authenticity (an anachronistic combination of football/music/politics, the misJudged character of Caroline, the movie style climax). If there was an issue with IoMaFC - it was the ability to dismiss it as fiction and so effectively walk away from its message - that option does not exist here. Ultimately it would be easy to dismiss this book as glamorising violence or romanticizing gang culture. I realised when reading this that, perhaps oddly, I find violence/sex in literature more acceptable when they are authentic/actually happened to the author as here, rather than when they are manufactured for literary purposes (in this case I would draw a contrast to "A Brief History of Seven Killings"). Nevertheless enjoying this book does bring a level of moral complexity/ambiguity. But in summary I found this very powerful and extremely memorable read. Ultimately literature is around experiencing different lives and worlds. And what this book shows is that one does not have to travel far (or read translated literature) to see a different world. For the main period of the book I was working less than 10 miles away and commonly travelling on similar tube routes) and about empathy. One question the book poses is whether empathy is possible across that 10 mile divide and in those tube carriages. I put the paper down and look around the carriage thinking how mad it is that although we’re all human beings sharing the same space, we know nothing about each other and we never will. We’re just bodies, just muscle and blood, same way the blocks are just concrete and windows, and yet what we can’t see is all the life, all the things that are going on, within. And when we look at another human whose life is unconnected to our own, we sense nothing of the soul inside them at all. Like these people sitting next to me; they’ll never know how I used to eat people, shank people, do all this craziness, how I love listening to trap music and Chopin piano waltzes and I shot coke and write love letters to this girl I met calling her my whirlwind. For a moment I catch myself wishing I could put on the bally and gloves and get the strap and go and do some eats and feel my heart between my teeth beating so hard that I have to bite into it so I can swallow. But there’s no one to do it with now and I force the feeling back down like when you’re on the verge of throwing up, but with all your body focused into the strain of the effort, you manage to force the vomit down, while no one notices. But I think this book goes some way towards bridging that gap. My thanks to 4th Estate and William Collins for an ARC via NetGalley.

Briefly - So lyrical and poetic but it normalises violence and drugs... In full Fiction or non-fiction this is Snoopz's story. This is the name that Gabriel uses in his life on the streets and in the gangs in London. That life consists of crime, drugs, friends, girls and, slightly surprisingly, his time at uni doing his English degree. It's violent and at times unpleasant - knives are normal, guns sometimes. The police, courts and prison make appearances. It is not a "pretty" story, it's visceral and edgy. As an old person it took me a little while to get into the language being used here. There were a lot of words I didn't know (or in some cases didn't make sense in the way they were used). "Food" means something very different to me than it does to Snoopz and the gangs culture of South Kilburn! This is so far from the world that is usual to me... If you do find you can get the language you are in for an interesting journey. I guess I'm conflicted here. This story effectively glorifies violence, crime and drugs - "things" are simply something to be taken from others whatever it costs. It certainly shows young men seeing women as objects. So far so bad... However the writing and the power of the stories are remarkable. The tension between rivals - gangs or people - is tangible and quite scary. The sheer drive to rob, use women, get possessions and in this case to get an English degree come over so strongly. Living - and the obvious but usually ignored possibility of dying - makes for something that is very vivid. For me the star aspect of this is the writing. Once you get into it (if you can) it is stunning for me. Most of it has a real lyricism. Parts of it are wonderfully poetic. I found myself wishing I had thought of some of the lines in it. It makes for a convincing but troubling read. I'm left with the feeling that Gabriel was probably a good boy - Snoopz is definitely not. However, good or bad, it comes over as something very real indeed. I certainly have no regrets about reading this. Note - I received an advance digital copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for a fair review

3.5 rounded up A very challenging read, steeped in a street gang vernacular that is at times though to follow but one's patience is rewarded. It's felt a bit long and drags out at times, but still is quite the accomplishment.

This came out on the Booker longlist over a year ago, but there aren't any reviews on LT yet. I found it, for some reason, the most clouded in mystery of all the books on that list, and had no idea what to expect until I listened to the audible sample and started looking this up. Krauze (he pronounces the last 'e' something like 'eh') is a child of Polish immigrants to England who grew up in London's impoverished South Kilburn, got involved in a very violent criminal life as a teenager and kept at it while attending a university. The novel is heavily autobiographical. I was immediately taken in by the narrative, read by Krauze himself in his north London accent, influenced by Jamaican English. "Wagwan" is a curiously used greeting. It's a Jamaican version of "what's going on?", but in London has a gang-life implication. In this accent Krauze takes us straight into his criminal life, at a point where he worked with a small team of scouters, a getaway car and partner as ruthless as he his. He basically jumps carefully selected victims, violently takes anything of value from them, and runs off leaving a battered, bruised and possibly partially broken victim whom he doesn't give one thought to. He's not interested in that, because there is too much going on in his quasi-gang life where compromise is a kind of suicide. Any and every perceived challenge is met with violence, knives bloodied, and his main concern afterwards is whether he hurt the other guys enough. In between he goes to classes on literary theory. This stuff is constant and some readers find it repulsively repetitive and dull. I never did. I was fascinated by him. And a bit shocked when I began to pick up the nature of his own involvement. He was not really like the other people he was doing crimes with because he didn't come from a broken home, with an abusive or absent father, but from a loving, if financially strapped, family, including a twin brother who excelled at playing violin. That is, he was doing all this criminal stuff not because he was desperate but by choice, for some cash and because he loved it. And mostly he got away with it. He does cover spending time in a couple lock-ups, but notes that he was never caught for his worst crimes. And, he doesn't expressively say it, but he really dodged the gangs. This was bad when he would find himself isolated, his partners locked up or on the run, but eventually a blessing because he was free of the warfare and could walk away without anyone looking for him. He's clearly not a typical story. It leaves me in an ethical conundrum. I really enjoyed this book. It's fascinating, seems authentic and is well written. It‘s also by a guy who really hurt people for no legitimate reason, and is now, later, out of that life, mining those experiences to put into his book. Mind you, I read plenty of authors with terrible personal ethics. And this book certainly has value as a look into this mindset. The reader realizes no corrective policy could have stopped him from doing what he did, and that's maybe instructive in some way. Not sure. Not sure how I judge this one overall. ----------------------------------------------- 32. Who They Was by Gabriel Krauze reader: the author published: 2020 format: 9:29 audible audiobook (336 pages in hardcover) acquired: June 28 listened : Jun 29 – Jul 14 rating: 4 locations: London about the author: 34-yr-old London native of Polish parents.

’ll admit, after so many disappointments with this year’s Booker longlist, I was actually quite surprised at the amount of enjoyment (maybe not the best term) I got out of Gabriel Krauze’s debut novel, Who They Was. A lot has been said about Krauze and it does bear a bit of repeating here as it does have an impact on the books. For those who do not know, Gabriel Krauze is the son of the cartoonist Andrzej Krauze and spent most of his 20’s dedicated to a life of crime (now that’s all behind him) at the same time he was studying at university. Who They Was is a collection of these experiences, however most events have been fictionalised so I guess this can be WTW could be perceived as a novel. If summarised to a basic sentence, it’s about a young adult living in two worlds. One consists of beating people, drug dealing, stealing things off them, being in gangs, living in squalor and going in and out of prison. In the other world he is attending lectures and learning about Shakespeare. In fact when the narrator is with the gang he is called Snoopz and when attending lectures he is called Gabriel Krauze. At uni Krauze is learning but then he is applying the theory so maybe if one is bright enough, connections can be made. As expected, the gangster life is getting too brutal for Snoopz/Gabriel and he leaves it behind. I thought I would become bored as the book follows a bit of a formula : steal – uni – drug deal – uni – sex – drugs- steal – uni – family problems – steal – uni etc etc but it didn’t bother me in the least. The book felt like a high octane gangster film. The book’s writing style is unconventional as it is written in slang. At first it is jarring but then it becomes poetic with it’s own rhythm and cadences and it becomes easy to follow. An unexpected delight.

A 3.5 star read. This book isn’t for the faint of heart. From the outset this book dives into the criminal underbelly of London urban crime in the 21st century. As a reader,we are immersed from the first chapter into a world swarming with gang shootouts, drug dealers, postcode warfare and armed robbery. A world the author lived and breathed growing up. From this unique autobiographical perspective Gabriel Krauze helps the reader traverse a side of London far removed from the tourist hotspots the city is renown for. A brutal and harsh look at the cold reality of knife and gun crime in the English capital. This debut novel sears with an authentic vernacular style and a poignant reflective undertone. I would have rated this novel higher as the own voices narrative of the criminal underworld of London is both powerful and breathtaking. However it just missed out on a 4 star rating as the length of the novel was too long for me and the development of the plot too slow. Thanks to 4th Estate/William Collins, NetGalley and Gabriel Krauze for a review copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

This deep dive into London's underworld is insightful, compelling, dramatic, well-written and blissfully unvarnished. It tells a story very different to the one that is told in the newspapers, humanising and understanding the people involved. Definitely a worthwhile read. I'm not quite sure how to feel about the author, whose amoral (and perhaps adventurist) approach to 'road life' jars a bit. Practically all the characters he talks about got involved with crime for lack of other options; the author on the other hand clearly did have options, had a stable home, was receiving a good education. The quasi-philosophical attempts at justification ring a bit hollow to me. Nonetheless, it makes for good reading!

What a hectic life. I recommend listening to the audiobook, it's read by Gabriel Krauze himself

I loved it! Doesn’t leave a lot to the imagination when it comes to what goes on in London’s crime scene. However, Krauze does this in a way that never feels gratuitous or indulgent. This is done through very authentic prose using a lot of different slangs that would be used in these communities (which can take a bit for a lad from South Wales to get his head around).

** spoiler alert ** I read this book in total haste over 3 days, which thinking about it, perfectly matched the fast paced manic and chaotic story of Gabriel ‘Snoopz’ Krauze . Maybe this is exactly why I read it that way ; you simply cannot stop reading it. Snoopz tells stories in such a quick tongue and with such thrilling pace that before you’ve looked up you’ve read 50 pages. There’s never a good place to stop, never a time when you can put it down and comfortably wait until tomorrow to see what happens. Krauze is a phenomenal writer, using beautiful language throughout this often terrifying ride of a novel. Krauze is heavy in gang culture in South Kilburn (SK) Knife crime, robberies and drag deals are a daily occurrence. And Snoopz is as bad as the worst of them, never hesitating to rob a woman alone on the street, pull his gun out, or stab someone multiple times. But the beautiful point of this book, is the way it demonstrates how a human is made up of many faces; that Snoopz can be deep in gang life but also studying for an English degree at university, having deep, intelligent, reflective through and writing beautiful books. And it’s his studies at university that help him make such striking observations and draw observations about his life, which he generously and gorgeously peppers through the book. Yes, the majority of the chapters are the same. Bad shit that Snoopz is up to, rinse and repeat. But that just made it feel all the more real and dramatic for me, and you get totally swallowed into what gang life would entail. One of the biggest story points of the book, except Snoopz’s studies at uni, is his super close relationship with best pal Gotti. Gotti and Snoopz become like brothers, doing all their ‘eats’ (ribbing’s) together daily, living together at friend’s places, sharing a gun, all their Bud, and all their inner most thoughts. (There’s a part in the later part of their friendship when Gotti is trying to convince Snoopz of a medicine man down the road that can attach spirits to you that you will have for life and isn’t even will protect you from death and/ or being caught out for murder, and Snoopz eats it up like a spoon without even stopping to question his friend. I absolutely loved that this was included, as it was a perfect example of just how much Snoopz trusted Gotti, and put him before everything…even common sense.) About six years into their friendship, Gotti starts acting weird. He stops leaving the house while Snoopz is out at uni, he starts really taking the piss with their Bud, he keeps Snoopz’s gun on him at all times, and soon, he disappears. Snoopz is heartbroken when he finds out Gotti has started on heroin. He doesn’t take Snoopz’s calls, doesn’t return the £3k he has at his mum’s house, steals his gun and never speaks to or sees Snoopz again. This story of heartbreak is the beginning of the end of Snoopz’s time in gang life in SK. Yes this book is aggressive as fuck, it’s troubling and disturbing to read, but it is also written by an extremely talented author, and thankfully ends with a new chapter for Snoopz - without Gotti but out of prison, and finally back amongst family.

really interesting and powerful book, sad how violence can shape someone's life when they are brought up in it. ending was a bit weak

A thrill ride, like a Scorsese film on page. From wrestles with morality right down to the grey hue of an ending, where any notion of glamour in the lives these men/boys lead is completely dissolved.

I was recommended this book by a dear friend, the line was - a modern day A Clockwork Orange. This a brilliant summary: gangs; violence; nihilism; ponderings on morality; filial disobedience. Written entirely in slang, it's impossible not to be totally immersed by this story. Even more interesting when I learnt that it's autobiographical, based on the authors time living in South Kilburn. There is an inescapable sense of being really inside the protagonists mind, and throughout the book I was rooting for Snoopz - perhaps less so during the objectively horrendous crime and arguments with his parents. I definitely wouldn't recommed this to everyone but I bloody loved it.

A powerful read and a publishing phenomenon, long-listed for the 2020 Booker but only recently published in the States, Who They Was is the autobiographical tale of Gabriel Krauze's juxtaposed life as a South-Kilburn projects violent criminal and aspiring university English student and writer. The narrative follows his simultaneous rise through the gang ranks while investing himself more and more in the reflective side of his troubles. The book's writing traces a similar arc: episodes of stark, raw violence followed by beautiful, image-laden landscapes and bouts of painful introspection. What I loved so much about his writing - as opposed to other tales of gritty realism - was the back-and-forth questioning of why, if coming from a loving, stable home and clearly intelligent enough to excel at university, did he find it necessary to commit the crimes he did, to face arrest and jail time, to engage in such frightening levels of violence that his life, literally, rested on a knife's-edge. To me, these passages were the most encapsulating, a strong rebuttal to the reductionist logic that renders gang warfare as simply a series of bad decisions. The mentality is so psychologically-fraught that, to Krauze, it appears as almost pre-destined, an inability to go back once you've entered that life. The prose can be difficult at times, rife with slang and scenes of jarring sex and violence, but I appreciate how Krauze didn't hold anything back. I read that his publisher (mind you, Krauze has no formal training as a creative writer - he just wrote the thing and sent it out. It's a great underdog's story) wanted the story to have a redemptive arc. Krauze refused, keeping it as original as possible. He's an immense talent. In one scene, he rails against a journalist attempting to "document" the South-Kilburn lifestyle. Krauze, instead, has taken it upon himself to do so, the autobiographical style of which unwitting draws the reader in to his world, creating a rare empathy.

What had he done, what could he have done … He felt the answer rise up in his chest. These memories, these memories, hunting him down, taking possession of him. These memories, and a word now, just a word remembered, that moved inside him, sat on his tongue, waiting there, until he spoke it out loud. He turned his face towards the woman, bent down to her, said, “Violence.” Longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize and very much the welcome surprise on a longlist which favoured established authors. Further in a list dominated more than ever by the powerhouse conglomerate Penguin Random House (6 entries) and Booker specialists Faber and Faber (3 entries) it was refreshing to see a book from a small UK press – Holland House Books. The author of the book lives now in Brazil – having moved with her husband’s work – and that is very relevant to the novel as the author has described how I am an introvert at the best of times, but never more so than I have been in this country. Compelled to go where my husband found work, we ended up in the centre of Brazil in a city that is predominantly conservative, full of staunch supporters of the nation’s right-wing, racist, homophobic, misogynistic, dictatorship-adoring president, Jair Bolsonaro. I have very little in common with such people. .... With no friends or family to ameliorate the situation, it was lonely and challenging. While my husband went to work every day, I was left in the apartment with the general advice not to go outside as it was unsafe …….. I was alone for 10 hours a day in an apartment on the 17th floor of a tall apartment block. I hardly went anywhere. I saw no one but our building’s security guards. When I did meet people, I was unable to have any sort of conversation with them as I knew very little Portuguese and had no opportunity to practise …. I became obsessed with the order of things – everything had its place and time – and I became unsettled when my husband disrupted that order. In my mind, he began to feel like an interloper. The book is set over a four day period in an unnamed African country (more later on this). The third person protagonist (and this importantly us a book with a very focused third party viewpoint) Samuel is now an old man. For twenty three years (a period which will recur in his story) he has lived as a lighthouse keeper on a remote Island – his only source of living human contact two men who visit him on a supply boat once a fortnight from the mainland - a mainland he has never revisited. Over the years though thirty two bodies have washed up on the land (initially from the chaos and violence under dictatorial rule, but in later years the bodies of unsuccessful refugees) – Samuel burying them in the walls around the Island as a further act of both distancing himself from the outside and warning people away. His existence now is a routine in personal survival, in maintaining the Island’s walls against the ingress of the sea and in fighting the growth of an invasive plant he has named smother-weed. Samuel’s focus could be almost said to be in disproving the first part of John Donne’s famous assertion - No man is an island entire of itself - something backed up by the brilliant cover image - and avoiding being involved in mankind although as a reader we cannot help but wonder how every man’s death diminishes him further. When therefore at the book’s start a drum washes up on shore with a body attached, Samuel’s immediate focus is on how he can use the drum. Even when the body shows signs of life, Samuel is very reluctant to get involved, preferring to hope the man dies and initially showing much more concern for a red-hen (something of an outsider and subject to attacks by the other chickens he keeps – the hen of course both for the reader and for Samuel himself standing in as a substitute for Samuel’s own predicament). But when the man shows resilience but also fear of the supply ship Samuel is suddenly forced to face the fact that he may need to share his Island with this foreign refugee. And of course we then have the link that the author draws with her own predicament – Samuel in almost complete isolation, obsessed with order and routine, now facing disruption from an interloper – one with whom he cannot communicate (neither speaks each other’s language and Samuel is unable to read so they resort to a mutually wary sign language, one on which Samuel at least tends to place a distrustful / worst case kind of interpretation). As the two grow to an uneasy accommodation over the next few days – Samuel sometimes by directly induced flashback, sometimes just through natural memory looks back on his life and the way it is tied up with the history of his nation. Samuel grew up in the country but his family was forcibly removed (and some neighbours to slow to leave massacred) by the colonisers. He and his family move to the city – resorting to piecework and begging to survive - where his father is actively involved with the successful Independence Movement. However his father’s belief that the new president will remember those in the slums that fought for him persists long past the point when it has any hope of fulfillment. Samuel drifts into a life of petty crime and hustling but the country is seduced by a populist General who with a gospel of betrayal murders the president and takes over the country himself before turning into the Dictator and introducing a police state. Samuel comes into the orbit of a marxist style revolutionary group - the People’s Faction – only really committing to the movement when his occasional girlfriend challenges him to show he is worth to be father to the child she is carrying. His subsequent involvement in an ill-fated march leads to his arrest and detention in a notorious new prison (the Palace) and a prior twenty three year period – one also spent largely in psychological isolation as he sells out the movement, the mother of his son and his fellow prisoners in the face of torture. When he is finally released (in a now relatively free and prosperous society whose biggest issue now is refugees) his only surviving family – a Sister and her children – force him to start begging and then set up his Lighthouse Keeper job to get him away from them. And of course cleverly here the second half of Donne’s statement comes in - every man is a piece of the continent because this is a novel with a deliberately set in a unnamed African country which is simultaneously every African country and with a kind of everyman protagonist both designed to represent the travails of an entire continent. But what is more powerful is the effect all of this both societal and individual history has on Samuel and his relationship with his fellow Island dweller - I will say nothing more as this is the main narrative in the book (Samuel's and the nations life history is something which we learn more over time with many of the key areas revealed up front). The cycle of violence and humiliation combined with the distrust engendered by isolation mean that this is not a redemptive book – as the author has said “where Samuel represents the effects of the general political history of an entire continent, a continent which has been exploited for generations, then it becomes impossible for me to write a happy ending. My job as a writer is to hold a mirror up to these realities, but it is not within my abilities to suggest solutions". Overall this is a bleak and powerful, fable-like exploration of the long-lasting impact of colonialism in Africa and its disturbing legacy of violence-begetting-violence. It is also an exploration of the effects and damage of isolation and the distrust and fear and almost entire lack of empathy it breeds – and so therefore I think also a potential parable about the potential legacies of COVID – not the health impacts but the potential longlasting behavioural impacts of lockdown. Recommended and an impressive addition to the longlist.

Longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize An Island is published by the small independent press Holland House Books, founded in 2012, and who focus on literary fiction and non-fiction. I first encountered them via Kate Armstrong's brilliant The Storyteller which was longlisted for the inaugural Republic of Consciousness Prize. "We didn't have money to send our children to school," Samuel's mother said. "But your child will have more opportunities. We will work hard to make sure that happemd. He will read and write. He will be an educated man and get a good job. Maybe in the bank." Samuel's father nodded, "Oh yes, and he will have a name to match his good fortune. Freedom or Independence. Something like that, to that each time he speaks his name, he will do so with pride, knowing what his grandfather fought for, knowing that I gave him this gift of freedom from slavery." That was when Meria could take no more. "Where is your freedom? What did independence bring you? Your generation brought us failure, nothing more. You should have done it properly. You should have obliterated it all, started from the beginning, and not simply tried to repeat what we had before. A corrupt elite, enslaving the poor. The poor must rise up. That is when you will have freedom, only then. Not this crippled existence of scrounging and scrounging and telling yourself that it is what you almost died for. This isn't freedom, and no child of mine will be taught to think that this prison of exploitation is anything other than what it is." Samuel's father blinked. "You are very angry, girl. If you are not careful, the child will be bom with a bitter heart." An Island is a deceptively simple fable at face value, but profound and moving. It is narrated from the perspective of Samuel, aged 70. For 23 years he has lived alone on a remote island off the coast of the mainland, as keeper of the lighthouse. As the novel progresses we learn more of his backstory, one set in a generic post-colonial country. From the author: I didn’t set out to write a fable – or, rather, I did not think about it explicitly in those terms – yet I believe that the description is an apt one, to a certain extent. I wanted to explore certain complexities relating to the history of the African continent and how that history continues to influence the lives of individuals to this day. Because that history is such a multifaceted one that is shared, to varying degrees, by numerous African countries, I wanted to reduce the narrative to a small location, with few characters, and by those means amplify the key concerns. One of those concerns is examining the life of an ordinary individual. There is nothing special about Samuel. He is not heroic, intelligent, skilled or wealthy. He is very much an everyman – an everyman who has experienced aspects of colonisation, of being made to flee his home, of poverty, of the fight for independence, of torture and imprisonment under a dictatorship, and of trying to find his place in all of that chaos and horror. What does a man like Samuel have? How does he feel? What will he do in order to protect his home? As a child, Samuel's family were driven from their rural home as their land was appropriated by the colonial. In the city, he and his younger sister had to beg to make ends meet, but their father became involved in the independence movement. But when independence came, the first President lived in wealth while the country suffered, although Samuel's father's loyalty to the regime never wavered. The President was soon overthrown in a coup by his more senior General, who also carried out a purge of foreigners in the country, and then set himself up as a Dictator, for a quarter of a century. In the early years of the, even more corrupt, Dictator's regime, Samuel found himself drawn into a resistance movement and, after being arrested, spent 23 years in prison (the mirror of his time so far on the island) before the fall of the regime and his release. The novel's present-day narrative drive comes from the arrival of a refugee on the island, washed-up after the shipwreck of a boat of asylum seekers. The two are unable to communicate via a shared language, and the narrative also remains outside of the newcomer's thoughts: This was a conscious choice on my part from the moment that I first had the idea for the novel. Firstly, there have been numerous successful narratives told from the point of view of refugees. They are important stories and should continue to be written. However, I was more interested in looking at the other side – the xenophobic side. What is it that makes people embrace that intolerance? Additionally, I felt that it was crucial to highlight the difficulty that arises from lack of communication and when individuals are viewed as no more than objects. Because Samuel knows nothing about the man – not where he came from, not what his story is – it is much easier to hate him. Samuel grows suspicious of the newcomer's intentions, and increasingly jealous of his island kingdom, the early violence and humiliation inflicted on him throughout much of his life now resurfacing in an intolerance of others. Violence begets violence. Samuel has been exposed to it from a young age through the different stages that his country has gone through politically, and through the effects of those changes on him and those around him. His first experience of this violence was when the colonisers chased his family and their many neighbours away from the valley in which they lived, killing those who did not go fast enough. This is the legacy left by the colonisers when they eventually leave the country: a legacy of blood, exploitation, torture and murder. It is difficult to move beyond that. Furthermore, violence is a way to humiliate, to subjugate others. When Samuel’s father rose up in order to fight for his nation’s independence, he was crippled in the protest. What disgusts Samuel is that his father believes he was part of something great and good, yet the majority of those who rose up continued to live in filth and poverty, begging, scraping by, while the new independent leaders, such as the president, filled their coffers and forgot the everyday citizens who had put them in power and to whom they had promised the world. A great discovery by the Booker jury, and a book I definitely hope to see on the shortlist, as well as a publisher to watch - if you can, buy the book direct: https://www.hhousebooks.com/books/an-... Interviews with the author About the novel: https://www.litnet.co.za/an-island-by... A more personal take: https://tiahbeautement.wordpress.com/...

Samuel has spent the decades since his release from 25 yrs as a political prisoner, living a solitary life on an island tending to the lighthouse; when a body washes ashore, alive this time, of a young man who does not speak Samuel’s language, Samuel is thrown into crisis. As Samuel relives the years of violent revolutions in his unnamed country, remembering his cowardice and humiliations, his paranoia grows. This political allegory is tightly written with slowly building tension. I highly recommend it and also recommend trying to read it in one sitting.

Splendid Isolation Samuel lives alone on an island off the coast of Africa, charged with maintaining a lighthouse. He is an old man, worn down by the pain dealt by the civilized world. He just wants to be left alone on his land, his island. His function is to oversee the place, keep the lighthouse going, and to bury the dead bodies who wash up on the shore. These are refugees who desperately crammed themselves onto makeshift boats and did not make it. The bodies were no longer of interest to the government and were even ridiculed by the men who drop off the island’s supplies… “There were bodies floating everywhere… those sharks of yours won’t be starving anymore!" and "They deserve it, don’t they?... Anyone stupid enough to pack themselves in a rotting boat like that and try to enter another country illegally is asking to die.” Samuel’s world is turned upside down when one of the bodies washes up still alive. Samuel’s initial instinct is to help, to be friendly, to do the right thing. This stranger, a much younger and physically imposing man, does not speak Samuel’s language and that adds to an estrangement and lack of understanding between the two. His mere presence threatens Samuel and triggers a series of memories pouring out: all his regrets and hardships, all the mistakes he feels he has made, all the trauma associated with his life outside the island. The sense of joy over some companionship is struggling with a paranoia to protect what is his. Refugees. There are few social issues which test the conscience like the refugee one. Love thy neighbor– hard to argue with that concept. How does this change when a stranger enters the picture and seems a real threat? Samuel has worked hard, has built his walls to seal his world. “This land is mine. I am the land.” –Samuel “An Island” surprised many when it was on the 2021 Booker Prize Longlist. It is a relatively short novel and one that had a hard time getting noticed by publishers in the first place. Karen Jennings has written a beautifully concise and insightful portrait of a man both consumed by and trapped by his island. I received an advance review copy for free, and I am leaving this review voluntarily. Thank you to Random House / Hogarth and NetGalley for the advance reader copy in exchange for an honest review. #AnIsland #NetGalley --------------- Somehow this review had disappeared. The latest Karen Jennings novel, "Crooked Seeds," has been longlisted for 2025's Women's Prize for Fiction-- I hope to read it soon!

A little gem of a novel with no wasted words. Plot-wise, it has elements of a thriller in the sense that it builds suspense until the last page. Thematically, it concerns, among other things but especially, the bleak history of violence in colonized Africa. Some of the novel’s power has decreased now after a few days since I finished it, so I’m dropping this from the initial 5 stars to worthy 4 stars – it’s still among the better novels (and an interesting underdog) on the Booker longlist.

An Island is a short but complex novel that explores human behaviour and the way we understand the actions of others, as well as complex ideas about colonialism and post-colonialism. Jennings has mastered the art of slow-burning tension- as this novel tells the story of Samuel the lighthouse keeper and the refugee that washes up on his island shore in the present, and slowly unravels Samuel’s past life on the mainland. Through these dual narratives, Jennings offers Samuel and the refugee both as a geopolitical allegory, and as a story about how our actions and choices are all built cumulatively from our complex past experiences. Stylistically, it’s at once distant, and very interior which I expect will challenge some readers, but I felt ultimately served the kind of story Jennings was trying to tell.

Sometimes slender books pack the biggest whallops, but when that same book is longlisted for the Booker, you know you can expect density. Samuel has tended a lighthouse for over 20 years on an island off the coast of an African country that has suffered under a harsh history. His solitude is both his penance and his solace, except when these are threatened by a young man washing up on the beach. This person is also seeking refuge, so they have that in common. Over the course of four days, Samuel revisits his past, his years in prison and what led him there, and rationale for his choices. Well done.

An Island follows Samuel, who lives alone on an island managing the lighthouse. A refugee is washed up on the shore of the boat, and this triggers memories for him about his past life on the mainland. He grew up in Africa under the colonialists and helped his country fight for independence — only to see it fall under the rule of a cruel dictator instead. He spent 25 years in prison before finding the job looking after the lighthouse. Samuel's story is set over four days, switching between the present day and his past. An Island packs quite a lot into its 182 pages! The story switches between Samuel's life now and his life in the past. This was done really well and I didn't find it confusing or difficult to follow at all. He thinks back on his past life, growing up in Africa. He had seen the country go from being controlled by colonialists to controlled by a Dictator, and then spent 25 years in prison. On leaving, his sister helped him to find his current job as the lighthouse caretaker. A supply boat visits every two weeks, but otherwise, he is alone. Because of this, Samuel is now used to being isolated. On his only attempt to visit the mainland, he became panicky at the thought of being around lots of people. His life is quite hard to read at times and utterly heartbreaking — both seeing how the country changes (but doesn't really change at all), and the time with family he misses out on by being in prison. These parts of the book I found incredibly sad and moving. His relationship with the stranger is also really interesting. The refugee doesn't speak his language and so they struggle to communicate — there are several times when this causes misunderstandings. I would love to know what the stranger was trying to say at some of the points in the book. While this book talks a lot about loneliness and isolation, I also felt that Karen did a fantastic job of portraying the themes around colonialism and dictatorship. Samuel and his friends live in poverty growing up. He also struggles with the conflict and political changes, and where he stands. I really enjoyed these aspects of the book and it made it so much more than just a book about a man in a lighthouse. Overall this is a fantastic read — there was so much more to the story than I had anticipated. I strongly recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading character-driven stories or has an interest in Africa and its history.

A compact, tense novel which I think will linger with me. The commentary on political issues is wide-ranging, encompassing post-colonial dictatorships, independence movements, refugee crises, and climate change. By contrast, the prose is pedestrian and efficient, and the focus of the narrative is quite narrow. There is very little world-building, with only oblique descriptions of the dictator, the poverty suffered by our protagonist, Samuel, and the revolutionary movement in which he becomes entangled. The allegory of the man, a refugee who washes up on Samuel's island, and the island itself, is very effective and interesting. At times I would have appreciated more world-building, but I think the spare approach ultimately builds tension and allows the book to comment in a more general way about our world today. This isn't really my type of book, but I do appreciate what it does and think the themes are pertinent.

"No man is an island, Entire of itself; Every man is a piece of the continent, A part of the main." John Dunne Longlisted for the Booker Prize in 2021, this book is set just off an unnamed African country. Samuel is a septarian lighthouse keeper who has lived alone on 'An Island' for many years, with only the crew of a supply boat his only visitors, when a man is washed up alive on the shore along with the wreckage of a boat. The novel unfolds in two time frames and settings, the present on the 'island' where Samuel has created a fragile sense of home and via his flashbacks to his childhood and rebellious youth on the mainland, a newly postcolonial nation whose dreams of freedom have been crushed by a homegrown dictator. Samuel, lives alone in a self-imposed exile after spending many years as a political prisoner in the country of his birth. However, this novel isn't just a story about a specific place or time in history, but looks at a world defined by totalitarian politics, conflict, social isolation, and displacement. In particular, the story asks: what can a person who has lost everything – country, family, child, and identity – offer another in the same situation? While some readers may question whether 'An Island' is a “refugee novel,” given that none of the characters is explicitly identified as such, the book points to the various forms that displacement can take. Samuel had early on in his own life been displaced by colonialism so when the man washes up alive on the sands we see the dread, suspicion, and fear that this new arrival may adversely affect his ordered way of life. Although Samuel is only one man, it's possible to see these sentiments reflected in many of the 'receiving' countries of the world, where residents fear that migrants will take up limited local resources and become a burden on their communities. Meanwhile using familiar xenophobic rhetoric 'the Dictator' “blamed foreigners for their suffering, vowed to end their troubles”. Through the depiction of Samuel’s numerous losses, poverty, and multiple displacements since childhood, Jennings forces us to consider whether first-hand experience should make us more compassionate to a refugee. Despite Samuel's gradually failing health, his isolation during the twenty-three years that he has lived alone on the island, Samuel regards “the man” with suspicion rather than an additional pair of hands that Samuel desperately needs to keep the island habitable. Yet, it is “the man's' foreignness that appears to threaten Samuel's way of life. Samuel comes to represent the choices that many nations and communities across the world are forced to make today, making readers reflect on their own responses to people from different unknown backgrounds and speaking different languages who arrive in their community/country. Will they be a burden or an asset? What are you willing to provide a stranger in distress? Is our basic instinct one of hospitality or suspicion and self-preservation? The ending is quite shocking and unexpected although perhaps inevitable leaving us with the uneasy feeling that we, like Samuel, are loyal only to ourselves.' An Island' is a simple yet deeply unsettling story that leaves the reader wondering if, in a world increasingly defined by porous borders, xenophobia, anti-refugee/migrant sentiments, and racism, we, too, are becoming one-person islands.

thoughts coming shortly

An old, troubled man named Samuel forms an equilibrium and ecological bond with the island on which he is a lighthouse keeper. Dead immigrant bodies wash onto the shore constantly. But when he discovers a man alive and nurtures him back from the brink of death, the delicate balance he’s forged for himself is thrown askew. Over four days we learn Samuel’s past as the breaks move backwards and forwards in his life. A political prisoner under an unspecified dictatorship for 25 years due to being at a dissenting rally, it makes some sense that he should be attracted to a solitary existence on an island. It’s surprisingly nuanced and moving how that foundation becomes pertinent though. His past is dredges up a kind of cyclical history. Immigrants being othered. The demands a society has of its populace. The casual cruelties of being not queer, but unwilling to perform what is expected of the codified notion of a ‘man’. Tying everything together as an ecology on an island and the internal machinations a man like Samuel goes through was really well done. Craft wise, this has excellent prose and is a notch about commercial fiction. It’s accessible and has strong themes. A conventional structure, pretty much, aside from flashbacks. And is a simple yet effective straight-forward narrative. It took maybe 2.5 hours to read the whole thing. Prose range from evocative to invisible, meaning good, not getting in the way at all, which is a success for me. I’m fairly critical of voice and style. There was a plot thread never answered and seemed to only partly function well before being completely abandoned. It feels out of place in an otherwise tight text. Lastly, the ending I am mixed on, as it again produces subjective elements that are less interesting than being answered. It leads you to a point where it feels like it has something to say and then denies catharsis and allows you to make of it what you will. That’s fine. But it’s not telegraphed that way and plot beats are contradictory as to feel intentionally sitting on the fence on such a central theme. Still, very enjoyable and worth reading.

70-something year old, Samuel, is a lighthouse keeper on a small, isolated, island off of Africa. He has been a caretaker there for 20+ years by himself, with only routine supplies coming in. And an occasional dead body (drowned refugees?) washing ashore... He collects supplies that wash up, raises chickens, has a garden, and lives a quiet isolated life. In 2 years, 33 bodies have washed up. He buries them and considers this part of his duties. Until one day a body washes ashore that isn't quite dead. As the not-quite-dead man recovers, Samuel has to break the comfort of his isolation and share his space. A real annoyance...or a real menace? Is the man a refugee or a fugitive? Samuel is fiercly protective of his island, his duties, his routines, and supplies. His flashbacks show us why. His life was full of poverty, oppression, and violence. He was a political prisoner for 23 years, fearing everyday that someone would kill him. With this new arrival, these old fears return.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize in 2021, An Island by Karen Jennings is a deeply meditative look at whether violence is a part of us or whether it stems from the environment around us: the politics of a place, the social fragmentation, the decay of political leadership? Set on a remote island that has a 70 year old man as its solitary inhabitant, An Island contextualizes part of a sermon that John Donne, a clergyman said in a sermon years earlier: 'No man is an island entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main...' So we have Samuel, the main protagonist who has been tending the lighthouse on an island in an unnamed African country for 23 years now. His only human contact is in the form of sparse supplies that arrive in a boat. The book begins on a slow note where readers are taken through the things that Samuel does on a daily basis on the island, tending to his environment around him, feeding his chickens. Things change when he finds a body who looks like an illegal entry washed on to the island and who he finds is alive. The two do not share a language and cannot communicate but the latter's presence makes Samuel's past come alive: one where violence in different forms have played an integral part. Intersped with themes of the trauma of colonial history and military rule, of movements against tyranny that do not amount to much in the long run, An Island is a book that is political philosophy as well as a humane study on what drives human beings to distrust one another: does it stem from our past experiences or is it something we all carry within ourselves.

https://donnasbookblog.wordpress.com/... I was really impressed by this story and I loved the amount of content that the author managed to cram in to what is just over 180 pages. The layout was really good and it made the story one that was easy to follow and I got a lot more than I expected from this one - it was well written and had a good flow to it to make it a book that was easy to sit with in an evening and plough through the pages. The book follows the story of Samuel and his life now and in the past, it is set over four days of his life and it is very well done, he has been through quite a lot and how he came to find himself on the island was engrossing too. He was a character that I wanted to read about and I was really interested in his life. At times part of the story was funny, it made me smile with some of his interaction but he really had a tough life and it did really made me feel for him at times. It is a clever book and I liked the settings and how Samuel's story was brought to life - it is a well done character driven story. It is 4 stars from me for this one - a well developed story, great setting and a fantastic main character.

Review to follow.

A novel that holds your face and shows you the reality that some people live and does not let go of you till you are weeping…. We waited six years for the author to write her second book and trust me when I say, this did not disappoint. As with her first book, Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀ tackles a subject matter that is current, real and with characters you cant help but to fight for. In A Spell of Good Things we are taken to a city in Nigeria where we meet two families from different social and economic backgrounds. We meet Eniola’s family, who were lower middle class, things were going great for them, until his father was made redundant from his job. The family lost everything, their car, house, and access to education. His parents are behind on his school fees and each day that they don’t pay, he gets beaten by the school principal. The landlord is knocking at their door threatening to throw them out on the street. With Eniola’s father not doing anything, he decides he must make some very hard choices. Wuraola comes from a wealthy family. She is a medical doctor currently doing her residency, always tired, suffering in the public hospital, paying her dues. Her childhood friend and boyfriend propose as a way to join the family together. She is unsure of the proposal but goes along with it because both families are happy. There are some red flags she ignores, in the hopes of not reaching thirty and being unmarried. Things begin to crumble when these red flags won’t let up. Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀ is a stellar writer there is no denying it. This is not your happy novel, she unflinchingly takes us to a town in Nigeria and shows us how the wealth gap lead to persons doing things they wouldn’t usually do. It is a hard novel to read but there is a sense of hopelessness but I think we need literature like this. The ones that makes us sit with difficult things. The writing is beautiful and I cannot recommend this enough.

Longlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize. 4.5 Stars! As a child Eniola would close his eyes when in trouble. Like an ostrich sticking its head in the sand, he thought nobody could see him if he could not see them. But everybody saw the newspaper vendor spit in his face. Eniola blames his father for the spit and the enraged vendor. His father sent him to pick up the paper. He sent Eniola because he had not paid the vendor for months. It should be his father with spit on his face. The vendor is just one of many creditors his father owes money. His father, along with many other teachers in the state were sacked, the subjects they taught judged no longer important. Eniola’s dream to go away to boarding school, of further education, is lost along with his father’s job. It is not the only thing lost. The car, the furniture, the fridge, the television. Everything Eniola’s family owns, disappears in a spiral that ends in poverty. Wuraola has received the education that Eniola desperately craves. Unlike Eniola’s family, Wuraola comes from a family of comfortable wealth. She is a doctor, engaged to be married. Eniola and Wuraola are the two protagonists of the novel. Both have their own narratives, but their narratives are destined to cross. Both characters represent the two extremes that exist side by side. Extreme poverty and extreme wealth. Eniola and his family have no money at all. His mother forced to beg each day for hours on end, while his father spends his days in bed staring at the wall, crippled with failure and shame, teetering on the edge of suicide. In stark contrast, Wuraola’s family live in a world of abundance. Status and class, not food and survival, their priorities. Set in contemporary Nigeria, Adebayo uses both narratives to expose the county’s woefully inadequate education and health systems. The disparity between the rich and the poor. Extreme poverty juxtaposed with abundant wealth. The patriarchal society that the state is mired in. Wuraola comes to realise that her future husband is not the man she thinks he is. What starts out as a slap, spirals quickly into dangerous physical abuse. The novel darkens towards the end, and Adebayo addresses another problem, that being political corruption and the violence and terror that it fuels. Violence and terror that both character’s paths ultimately converge on. A convergence from which wealth is no protection. This book is beautifully written and the way that the two narrative arcs cross and ultimately join is skilfully done.

I’ve actually had Ayobami Adebayo’s debut novel Stay With Me on my TBR for a while, but unfortunately, despite the best of intentions, I never got around to picking it up (classic case of “too many books, too little time”). Well, a few weeks ago, when an ARC of her second book, A Spell of Good Things , landed in my email box, I was determined that, this time, I will get around to it. And I am so glad I did because Adebayo’s writing here is amazing — poetic, lyrical, completely immersive and engaging. I also appreciated getting to learn about Nigeria and a culture that I knew next to nothing about prior to reading this book — though I will admit that the sentences and phrases written in an untranslated Nigerian dialect throughout the book did throw me for a loop in that I had to stop and look stuff up at times in order to fully understand what I was reading. With that said though, the book’s subject matter is actually quite heavy. The story revolves around two main characters — a female doctor in her twenties named Wuraola and a teenage boy named Eniola — from two Nigerian families at opposite ends of the economic spectrum (the extremely wealthy vs the devastatingly impoverished, the “haves” vs the “have-nots”) whose paths unexpectedly yet inevitably intertwine, amidst a backdrop of economic strife, political corruption, violence, and tragedy (and that’s just scratching the surface). Even though there were moments of levity (manifested primarily through one of the Wuraola aunties and a few other relatives) interspersed primarily throughout the first half of the story, much of the second half had an undercurrent of bleakness and sadness to it that I actually found difficult to shake even after I had turned the last page. I don’t want to say too much about this one, as I feel this is the type of story that you have to actually experience for it to be most impactful. What I will say is that this is one of those quiet, slow-burn type stories that takes its time to build up and play out — thoughtfully, meticulously, carefully — then in the last quarter or so of the book, the story suddenly hits you in the gut and you’re left reeling a bit. For me, I found myself still thinking about that last quarter of the book even long after I had finished reading — I kept playing though different scenarios and wondering, if certain people had acted differently, if some circumstances had been different, would that have changed things in the end? While this was not an easy read by any means (especially emotionally), I’m glad I picked it up, as it was a unique, thought-provoking experience that doesn’t come around too often. I know for sure now that I need to go back and read Adebayo’s debut, sooner rather than later. Received ARC from Knopf via NetGalley.

BOOKER PRIZE 2023 LONGLIST A SPELL OF GOOD THINGS by Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀ *** 1/2 rounded up Adébáyọ̀ caught many’s attention with the release of her first novel STAY WITH ME, which dealt with the turbulent world of polygamous marriage structures. Shortlisted for many prestigious prizes, Adébáyọ̀ quickly emerged as one of the new and exciting voices of contemporary African literature. Her follow up, A SPELL OF GOOD THINGS, casts an even wider net, delving into class, gender, and the broader tensions of the Nigerian political landscape. The plot follows two central characters, Eniola, a young boy whose father’s dismissal as a school teacher has flung his family into economic uncertainty, and Wuraolo, the daughter of wealth, a successful doctor and soon-to-be wife of a powerful political figure’s son. Both their lives are sent into chaotic places, Eniola being drawn into the violent underworld of pollical power in Nigeria and Wuraolo discovering her suitor does not shy away from violent outbursts directed at her. Adébáyọ̀ writes powerfully, the dialogue filled with emotion, and the novel’s closing act is riveting. I found this more appealing than STAY WITH ME but it was also a bit disjointed. The multiple perspectives was overwhelming at times and the intersection of the two main plotlines felt forced. I would have preferred if the focus was Wuraolo’s story. A quick note on the audiobook. There are two narrators, one for women characters and one for men (although even this becomes inconsistent). The male narrator has a breathy voice that made for foggy diction that made it hard to follow. In hindsight I would read the text. #bookstareadsthebooker2023 #bookstagramreadsthebooker #bookerprize #bookprizes #africanliterature #nigerianliterature #bookreview #literaryfiction #igbooks #audiobook #libbyapp

Ayobami Adebayo is one of my favourite authors, and she didn't disappoint with this book. I must warn you, this isn't a light and easy read. The main characters, Eniola and Wuraola come from very different worlds. Eniola is a poor and confused teenager whose only wish is to continue his education as his family plunges deeper and deeper into poverty while Wura is a doctor from a wealthy and established family. Class privilege, the weight of familial expectations, politics, poverty and ambition are all explored in the book. Ayobami is an amazing writer, and not just in terms of creating a good story, but also writing style. Reading this book a few weeks before the Nigerian elections also hits differently and gave me, even more, to think about but even barring that, it's just a really, really good book. Definitely going to have this as a book club pick and can't wait to discuss it with a ton of people. Amazing read

I decided to try again! I benefited from a second listen - I gave more concentration, kept up with the characters, and enjoyed it more.

A slow burn until we get half way through the novel, and then Ayobami Adebayo reminds us of why Stay With Me became such a beloved book. The writing here is consistently alluring and keeps the reader engaged helping us to roll through the slog. When we reach the last quarter of the novel the pace picks up and the two protagonists are heading for a collision course that the novel was hinting at all along, but skillfully keeping the details tucked behind other minor characters. The two protagonists represent the two different ends of the economic spectrum in Nigeria. Eniola, the boy from the poor family who can’t afford his schools fees, and as a result he is subject to a daily flogging. Imagine that!? On the high end of the economic ladder is Wúráolá, affectionately known as Dr. Wura; is from a well-to-do family with all the right connections. So she uses these two characters to riff on the economic politics of divide and how circumstances can lead to a clash of, well social classes. The Intersection of these two protagonists is coming and thankfully, for the good of the novel it isn’t telegraphed and so the ending is surprising and only slightly unexpected. Adebayo has now proven she is one author worth paying very close attention to. Two for two!

4.25* a slowburn with a worthwhile ending. I had to FIGHT tears while experiencing the last 30 pages.

A few years ago I had read Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀’s debut novel, Stay with Me and I liked it, I thought there were flaws but it was a solid debut which explored domestic abuse and patriarchy in Nigerian society. Now we have her second and novel and in a way you could say that it is the redux version of Stay with Me : there’s a subplot about domestic abuse but there are more themes and complex issues which arise. There are two main protagonists and they have their own narratives. One is the young doctor Wúràọlá who comes from a well to do family who is going to marry the abusive Kunle, mainly because their families have close ties with each other. The second main protagonist is teenager, Ẹniọlá , due to the political situation his father is let go from his teaching job and due to rising debts the family have to beg in order to pay for their living quarters and children’s education. The problem starts when Kunle’s father wants Wúràọlá’s father to financially support him for his political campaign, which puts the family in an awkward position as Wúràọlá’s father gives funds to another politician who can be vengeful. At the same time Ẹniọlá starts befriending this rival as he is given food and money but this means he has to carry out the rivals plans. A Spell of Good Things is a political novel. Namely about the role of Power. In this novel it is how power can change one’s destiny: The fact that one does not support another political leader can be detrimental. Due to power, people are unemployed, Power can make someone a slave and lead a life that is difficult to escape. The other type of politics is are family ones Wúràọlá is a victim of tradition , in fact her her parents shun her siblings as they rebel and not follow their parents wishes, Wúràọlá wants to please them by marrying Kunle but she knows it’s a bad decision and is in denial for most of the book. The novel does take it’s time to unfurl but it does pick up – this is not a qualm on my part as it gave time for Ayọ̀bámi Adébáyọ̀ to develop these characters and they are lifelike. Like most people they have their flaws and their good points. I liked how both main protagonists were put in moral situations and how they cope with them. The ending is like a gut punch and is proof how power can mess one up. I admit it did come as a little shock but it does drive the message home. Rich, layered, full of memorable characters and, not to mention, the poignant writing style makes A Spell of Good Things is a book that will leave a lasting impression on the reader.

Oof. I enjoyed the two separate storylines (the haves and the have nots) that made up the contents of this book, HOWEVER I wish this novel was about a 100 pages longer. Reason: The final part felt rushed. As much as this section was a much-needed page-turner, I did find it sacrificed some of the nuanced character development in order to do tell this explosive part of the story. The violent and tragic climax still landed, but I just wish it slowed things down a bit, allowing us to have time for the cruelty to sink in. All in all, this novel was a success. Need to locate my copy of STAY WITH ME (oh, where did I put you?) and further acquaint myself with Adébáyò.

Another heartbreaking, depressing book from the Booker longlist. This one concerns a wealthy family and a poor family in Nigeria and how their lives interconnect through a very corrupt political figure. The daughter in the wealthy family is on her way to becoming a doctor and the wife of an abuser. The dad in the poor family has lost his job as a history teacher and is unable to get another job. His kids get beaten at school because their fees have not been paid. Very interesting and well written but, again, very depressing.

I was completely absorbed by this story as it is culturally (and politically) so different to anything I have been exposed to. The two families in this story are from financial extremities but the violence and difficulties they both face bring a commonality to their situations. I was also intrigued by the way these Nigerian families celebrated and revered food. Counting the pieces of meat, hiding and allocating portions based on a person’s position in the family or community all seem to indicate that famine and poverty are strong drivers of behaviour. I will be thinking about these characters for some time.

Set in contemporary Nigeria, Ayọbámi Adébáyọ's A Spell of Good Things illuminates the harsh realities of poverty and class division through interconnected characters confronting their circumstances with grace. Eniola lives in the Lagos slum of Ojota and dreams of bettering himself through education but cannot afford even a lowly polytechnic due to his destitution. Meanwhile Wuraola hails from a wealthy family but finds that money cannot insulate her from life's pains and disappointments. The paths of Eniola and Wuraola intersect when he is hired to be her driver, their difference in social standing palpable yet neither allowing it to dull their inherent humanity. Eniola works hard and saves diligently, grasping at any opportunity however small to climb the economic ladder while Wuraola wrestles with loneliness, danger and heartache in her gilded world. Adébáyọ sensitively portrays these contrasting yet equally challenging journeys with prose that is subtle, poignant and piercingly observant. Beneath the narrative runs powerful undercurrents of class commentary and social critique. The unjust obstacles faced by the masses in a system rigged against them are subtly conveyed, as are the new forms of oppression privilege can breed. Yet Adébáyọ imbues the work with nuance and empathy, avoiding simplistic formulas. Her complex characters anchored in Nigeria's vibrant setting grapple with fate, longing, temptation and endurance in a way that is profoundly moving. A Spell of Good Things transcends didacticism to offer an intimate glimpse into the intersecting desires and realities defining modern Nigerian society.

“She had never been able to shake the sense that life was war, with the occasional spell of good things.” I’m not sure if there is even an occasional spell of good things for the two families in this novel- one rich, one poor. Wuraola seems at first like she has everything - she is a young doctor, has an upcoming marriage, and a life of wealth. Eniola is a poor boy from a family beset with difficulties, so much so that they often don’t have money for food, rent, or schooling. Adebayo traces their lives as they get closer and closer to an intersection that neither family can turn away from. So much about this that I appreciated - the author immerses you into the lives of her characters and you feel like you are inside their head. The build up to the main conflict in the plot is well crafted and when you get to the point where you can see what is going to happen, you want to stop it for everyone involved. I do think, though, that with a little editing, we could have gotten to that intersection sooner than we did. I would have been interested in finding out more about what happens after the intersection. So much time and detail went into building toward that point, that it felt like it ended too quickly after it happened

It was a great book because it gave a glimpse of African family life, from the poor to the rich. Pride was exhibited through the paternal and maternal lineages and showed the strength and resilience of family during tough times. The political troubles were introduced and an understanding of how children are drawn into the world of being “soldiers” and how important an education can be in order to have the possibility of hope and a future. I appreciate the author displaying her native language in the book, but it was sometimes a bit much because of its difficulty in understanding; however, I give it a 4 and enjoyed it.

This was good but man the ending, I won’t spoil it but it hits hard. Most of this hit hard and felt authentic. I am intrigued to read her first book. The country seems like a character also. Kind of wanted better for the main characters, but, maybe this was more real.

I'm going to need a minute. Ayòbámi Adébáyò does not disappoint!!

3.5 This one was high up on my TBR after reading Stay With Me. It did take a little while for me to get unto it; however, once I did, I wanted to see the outcome of the characters and life hardships they faced. I will say I was more drawn to Eniola's character and his family. They had it hard, especially him. Home life and school life. I could not imagine going through what he and his sister endured at school because of the family's lack of funds. Wuraola's story did have its hardships as well but in a different way. While her family was more well-off, she had struggles of her own. Both Eniola and Wuraola made decisions, not for self, but to please or help their families. I always love how a book takes two separate POVs and shows the struggles from differing viewpoints. That's one thing I enjoyed about this book. By the end, I was anxious to see how it would all tie together!

Omg. This one shook me and also annoyed me. Why did it have to end like that?

"Maybe my story wasn't: Dawn, who made a mistake and brought shame to her family. Maybe it's: Dawn, mortal woman, who took a wrong turn in life and got lost." At sixteen, Dawn Bishop - born and raised in Trinidad and the daughter of a prominent local family -becomes pregnant and is sent to Venezuela to give up her baby for adoption. More than forty years later, divorced and living in London with grown sons, Dawn is still haunted by that choice. Searching for her unknown daughter online, she hopes for a second chance: to trace what's been unsaid, to understand what was done, and to confront what remains from nearly a lifetime ago. A quiet and quietly moving meditation on love, loss, family, and making peace with one's past while facing the future, "Love Forms" is also love letter to author Claire Adam's home country of Trinidad. Her prose is vivid and often very intimate, particularly in scenes of Dawn's childhood and the emotionally fraught moments in Venezuela. The geography - past and present Trinidad, Venezuela, and London - vividly mirrors Dawn's sometimes dislocating internal journey. Poignant and moving in its unassumingness, "Love Forms" explores the many shapes love takes, what it demands, and what survives. It's a reminder that what's lost may never fully be found, but that the search can itself be redemptive. I listened to the audiobook, which was expertly produced and beautifully narrated by Melanie La Barrie, who truly became Dawn’s voice.

Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize. While I have a feeling that this book will not make the shortlist, I thoroughly enjoyed reading it. When Dawn becomes pregnant at sixteen her parents send her away to have the baby with some Nuns in Venezuela. In the eighties, in Trinidad, an unwed pregnant sixteen-year-old brings shame down upon herself and family. It’s a harrowing six-mile trip in a boat from Trinidad. Dawn actually believes she is going to be killed, thrown overboard. Her baby is then adopted out and Dawn forms a “pact” with her parents never to broach the subject of the baby again. Forty years later Dawn has lived, in her own eyes, an uneventful, disappointing life. She studied to become a doctor, but marriage and two sons put an end to a noble pursuit. She then divorced. Dawn has lived with a hole in her life. Repeated attempts to find her baby have failed. Even now in the present with the aid of modern technology her latest attempt fails again. I think it would be fair to say that the loss of her baby has affected her whole life. Her relationship with her parents, her husband. Whatever is going on in her life at any given moment, the desire to find her child is always there gnawing away at her heart. She lives with regret, even though the choice of keeping the baby was never even an option for her. Adam’s explores themes about motherhood and loss. Family relationships. I believe it is impossible for an adult male to feel the emotions of a mother who has lost her daughter, the longing to find her and the anguish of the failed attempts. That is why I enjoy books such as this. Literature such as this may be the only medium that can come close to helping a male reader to feel what the mother is going through. Great story, great characters, and a brilliant ending.

I first heard this recommended on the Irish Times Women's podcast summer reads of 2025 and shortly after that it was longlisted for the Booker Prize. A 16 year old living in relative privilege in Trinidad, has one crazy night out at carnival and months later is clandestinely bundled into various transportations and sent across the water to a hideaway in neighbouring Venezuela, has a baby and then returns alone. Years later, 58 years old, living alone in London, unable to pick up her career in medicine, two grown sons, her family still in Trinidad, she starts to search, with very little knowledge, except that memory of the trip in the dark. The novel explores a certain way of living in Trinidad, a daughter made to feel shame, an event unspoken for a decade, a self-exile imposed. Not until she begins her search and becomes familiar with the experiences of others like her, of children like the one she abandoned, does she begin to be able to understand what it is she has been feeling, a life long loss, momentarily offered the promise of being filled, as each potential contact (a woman her daughter's age searching for their mother) raises that hope. This was a compelling read that could create interesting discussions, of deeply flawed characters, of terribly inhumane behaviours, and the life long wounding adults commit, who care more for status and reputation than the damage heaped on women and children for being in the too common situation of being pregnant, or birthed, unwanted. This kind of story comes in so many varieties and though this one is unique, again it is driven by the shame and blame of young women. One of the most hopeful parts of this novel for me, was the knowledge that this character/this author, read the forums and the stories of the many, many humans, born into this 'unwanted' paradigm who write of their shared, common experience of how that separation affects a child, their life, their future relationships, which helps dispel the myth, that it's a good or right thing to do, to sever a baby from its mother.

The first chapter of Love Forms introduces us to Dawn, sixteen and pregnant after a one night tryst with a manipulative older man. She is quietly sent away in the dead of night, from Trinidad and Tobago to Venezuela to have her baby, a daughter who is taken away for adoption. Over the next forty years, Dawn is haunted by the question: What if? Where is she? As she combs internet forums searching for her child, we learn that Dawn is divorced, has two grown sons, yet is constantly wondering, Where is my daughter? Love Forms, recently longlisted for the Booker Prize, is a quiet, unassuming book. If you’re not interested in novels that linger on the everyday details of life, this may not be for you, but I found it quietly captivating: "The sun shone through the glass of the French doors, lighting up a section of the living room, and revealing dust on the surfaces of things-the lower shelves of the coffee table, the blank television screen. I studied the backs of my hands. The nails a little long and untidy. The skin a little dry. The faint dent around my ring finger, where my wedding band used to be." While the story is about never forgetting the past, it’s also a love letter to Trinidad and Tobago, where author Claire Adam grew up. Woven through the narrative is a subtle layer of history: economics, tourism, colonialism, even a brief account of Carnival. The historical elements are so understated you might not absorb them all on the first read. "This is one of the things that I’m ashamed of: that there have been times, as now, when I felt bitter about how the mistake I made at sixteen has affected my whole life. How it feels like it’s taken chunks out of my life, and it still hasn’t stopped." This is a novel about aging, reconciling the past with the present, and facing the future. Dawn is a strong, memorable protagonist, and the narrative at times feels like a memoir. "Maybe my story wasn’t: Dawn, who made a mistake and brought shame to her family. Maybe it’s: Dawn, mortal woman, who took a wrong turn in life and got lost." I really enjoyed this book and look forward to reading whatever Adam writes next.

I had a few personal grievances with this one, but overall it was a moving story.

A teacher once told me: good storytelling is building a wall with bricks, without anyone noticing the construction and/or the individual bricks. That's this story. It never feels constructed. A beautiful book, told from the perspective of Dawn Bishop, born and raised in Trinidad where her family has worked hard and has become a household name. A teenage pregnancy after an encounter not even worthy of the name one night stand, is not in the family’s books and so Dawn travels the perilous sea to Venezuela to grow big and give birth there. Life goes on as was, afterwards. So it seems, but not for Dawn. We meet teenage Dawn through the eyes of 58 y/o Dawn, living in the UK, now divorced, two sons. It’s her voice, her memories that take us through her past and current. At 16 Dawn didn’t focus on any details that might, at 40, or at 58, help her find her daughter. I received an eARC from NetGalley in return for my honest opinion

I listened to this book on Audible at the suggestion of a fellow Bookclub member and I thought it worked well. One of the delights was listening to the narrator’s accent. The reason this was so special for me was because I had worked closely for many years with another Doctor who, exactly like Dawn, had been born and raised in Trinidad (to a white British father and a mother of Spanish mixed origin in my friend’s case) then attended medical school in the UK where she had met and married her doctor husband and had two boys. The only exceptions to the fictional story in Love Forms being that my friend didn’t have a baby at 16 years of age and she was trained in the North of England. The ‘Trinny’ accent together with descriptions of carnival and sitting on sun drenched terraces drinking cocktails at sunset reminded me so much of her reminiscences and also her frequent trips ‘home’ to see her huge family network still living there. The prose style of the novel was deliberately cool and detached in the main, a commentary on Dawn’s life and experiences, as if she was chatting to the reader. It was reminiscent of the style of Ganeshananthan’s Brotherless Night and Verghese’s The Covenant of Water. The effect was to make the short episodes when Dawn almost exploded with feeling, for example when telling her son’s not to get involved with drug taking at school, more memorable to the reader. As the book advanced after a rather lukewarm start for me, it gradually picked up an emotional impetus. Dawn’s story about her teenage pregnancy and the subsequent hurried tragic adoption of her baby girl seemed to be realistically imagined and fragmentary, with different pieces of the episode erupting during differentstages of Dawn’s life. The final chapters were I think extremely well done and provided a satisfying but realistic ending. Overall a good read and one I would recommend.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Love Forms by Claire Adam Opening with a haunting scene of sixteen-year-old Dawn about to undertake a strenuous journey to Venezuela from her hometown in Trinidad. She arrives at a convent run by kind and gentle nuns who take care of her as she prepares for the birth of her baby. When the baby is taken away for adoption, Dawn is shipped back home to her family and told to forget what happened and go live her life. Her relationship with her parents and brothers is never the same, and soon she is shipped to a boarding school and eventually college, where she studies to be a GP. But images of her daughter are never far from her mind, and this huge loss affects her marriage and also to some extent her relationship with her sons. Dawn is bitter about having to give up her career as her husband’s profession flourishes. She goes through different phases of trying to make some connection with her daughter, firstly in the early days of writing letters and then as technology and social media became more common, she uses Facebook and ancestry websites. Finally, after many non-starters, an Italian woman born at the right time and in the right city comes forward. Can this actually be the end of years of searching and wondering for Dawn? Will she at long last meet her baby girl that she wanted to hold onto so badly all those years ago? Why was I nervous about reading this book? I will never know, but I found it beautifully quiet and reflective, intertwined with moments of heartbreak, loss and the intensity of a mother’s love. Dawn was a character relatable to many who, after a traumatic childhood, became a sombre and delicate person. Divorcing her husband sent her from a large, happy home, working as a GP, to living alone in a terraced house on a shabby street, working as a secretary in a real estate office. This is when her loneliness and grief for her daughter became more prominent and started taking over her every waking moment. This is a poignant, necessary read which lifts the lid on the difficulties that parents and adoptive children face when trying to locate each other. Every turn they made, they were confronted with obstacles leading to increased anxiety and had detrimental effects on them and their families. Adam’s talent shines through exceptionally in how she gets to the heart of women, their families and their emotions. A thoroughly meditative read that will leave an imprint on your heart and your mind long after you have put it down that shows that love comes in all different forms but are all just as momentous.

I really loved this story how it captured the lived experience of a girl who was sent away to give birth to her daughter out of wedlock. The trauma she faced alongside her hope was portrayed so well in this story. I really enjoyed the writing and the way the characters came together at the end.

Thanks to Netgalley for the eARC of this novel. This was an interesting history of Trinidad and a frustrating story of a middle-aged woman, Dawn Wilson, trying to find a daughter she put up for adoption when she was 15. Dawn was sent to a convent in Venezuela in the middle of the night in the most traumatizing way possible in order to have the child and be whisked back to Trinidad. This child haunts her for her entire life because she wants to know her and because the experience was so traumatizing and disorienting. She did not even know where she was when she gave birth. At the time, the point was for the family to get rid of the shame. Dawn's perspective, however, is that she made a mistake herself. She does not recognize that she had no choice in the matter. As a result, all of her relationships suffer, and she does not ask her family to take any responsibility for their role. This was a realistic tale but still sad. The inclusion of so much Trinidadian history was somewhat awkward. The trip to the morgue felt especially forced.

Sixteen-year-old Dawn escapes to Venezuela to give birth and give the baby up for adoption. Now at 58 she's living in England with two adult sons. Then she receives a mysterious letter....This is a thoughtful and tender novel about what we will do to preserve our integrity and family as Adam says, "to remember the past is its own gift". Thanks to NetGalley for this ARC!

2025 Booker Prize Longlist 6/13 This is a beautiful story, told with such grace. I listened to the audio and the narrator is truly exceptional with her vocal performance of the various Trinidadian accents and the precision of her tone and emotion. I have 2 close friends whose stories this could be, one the poor girl who either "made a mistake, bringing shame to her family or took a wrong turn in life and got lost", the other, very nearly that little baby, disposed of and dispossessed by those who thought they were cleaning up a problem. Everything in this story resonates authentically. Bonus: the fabulous settings of Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela and their historical and cultural vagaries. While this novel moved me in so many ways, I question it's place as a contender for the Booker Prize. It seems too accessible, too linear, too uncomplicated, given the usual standards.

⭐⭐⭐⭐ Love Forms Author: Claire Adam Source: NetGalley Publication Date: July 29, 2025 “Love Forms” is a mature woman’s coming-of-age narrative exploring life, love, and family complexities. The protagonist, Dawn, faces a challenging journey from childhood to adulthood. Her early years are marked by neglect from her parents, leading her to become unwed and pregnant at the tender age of sixteen. The story is set in Trinidad, where Dawn’s wealthy family sends her on a perilous voyage to Venezuela. There, she is entrusted to the care of nuns until the birth of her child, who is subsequently adopted. Upon her return home, Dawn eventually embarks on a new chapter of her life in England, where she becomes a doctor, a wife, and a mother of two sons. However, despite these accomplishments, she feels a profound sense of unfulfillment. The lingering desire to know her daughter and the unresolved mystery surrounding her fate consume Dawn’s thoughts, hindering her ability to embrace her life fully. This unresolved conflict strains her relationships and creates a rift between Dawn and her family. “Love Forms” is a poignant exploration of the profound bonds formed during childbirth, the transformative power of love, and the enduring significance of family. The narrative unfolds gradually, building tension and emotional resonance over time. #LoveForms @claireadamwriter @hogarthbooks @netgalley #adoption #unwedpregnancy #CatholicFaith #family #love #children #life #goals #sadness #melancholy #comingofage

Really enjoyed this book but don’t feel it’s innovative enough to make the shortlist

The more I think about this book, the more I like it. The voice, marked by uncertainty, fractured remembering and sudden flashes of realization is so persuasively rendered that it feels as though Dawn herself has sat down to write the story. To imagine her sifting through these fragments — these assortments of facts that in the end seem to amount to so little, my heart is filled with so much fondness for her, and with regret too at the limits of our power to alter fate, and how often adults fail the children who depend on them. 4.25

Claire Adam's second novel, Love Forms, delivers a profound meditation on the enduring bonds between mother and child, even when those bonds are severed by circumstance and silence. Following her acclaimed debut Golden Child, which won the Desmond Elliott Prize, Adam returns with a more intimate yet equally powerful narrative that explores the ripple effects of a single teenage decision across decades of a woman's life. The novel centers on Dawn Bishop, a fifty-eight-year-old woman living alone in London after her divorce, whose carefully constructed life begins to unravel as she confronts the secret she has carried for over forty years. At sixteen, pregnant and unmarried in 1980s Trinidad, Dawn was sent to Venezuela to give birth and surrender her daughter for adoption—a common practice that families like the Bishops used to preserve their social standing. The Architecture of Memory Adam demonstrates remarkable skill in constructing a narrative that moves fluidly between past and present, allowing Dawn's memories to surface organically rather than through forced exposition. The author's background as a Trinidadian writer brings authenticity to Dawn's recollections of growing up in the oil boom years of the 1970s and 1980s, when money flowed like water and the Bishop family's fruit juice business flourished. The most compelling sections of the novel occur when Dawn finally travels back to Venezuela with her brother Warren, retracing the terrifying journey she made as a frightened teenager. Adam's prose becomes particularly vivid during these sequences, capturing both the physical landscape and Dawn's emotional terrain with equal precision. The author's decision to narrate these scenes in the present tense creates an immediacy that makes readers feel they are experiencing Dawn's disorientation and recognition alongside her. Family Dynamics and Cultural Context One of the novel's greatest strengths lies in Adam's nuanced portrayal of Caribbean family dynamics and the social pressures that shaped Dawn's original predicament. The Bishop family operates within a complex web of respectability politics, business interests, and traditional gender roles that feel authentic rather than stereotypical. Warren emerges as a particularly well-developed character—a man hardened by decades of managing the family businesses during Trinidad's economic instability, yet capable of surprising tenderness toward his sister. The author skillfully illustrates how the oil crash of the 1980s and subsequent social upheaval affected families like the Bishops, adding layers of historical context that ground the personal story in broader Caribbean realities. The presence of Venezuelan workers in the Bishop household during Dawn's later visits creates poignant parallels between past and present migration patterns in the region. The Weight of Maternal Longing Adam excels at capturing the specific quality of Dawn's grief—not the sharp pain of sudden loss, but the chronic ache of absence that shapes every major life decision. Dawn's relationships with her sons Finlay and Oscar are rendered with particular sensitivity, showing how her unresolved feelings about her lost daughter influence her parenting of the children she raised. The author avoids sentimentality while still honoring the genuine emotions at stake. The novel's exploration of online adoption forums and DNA testing provides a contemporary framework for Dawn's search, but Adam wisely focuses on the emotional rather than technological aspects of reconnection. Dawn's correspondence with Monica Sartori, a potential match living in Italy, reveals both the promise and pitfalls of digital-age reunion attempts. Structural Ambitions and Limitations While Love Forms succeeds in many ways, it occasionally struggles under the weight of its own ambitions. The novel attempts to cover substantial temporal and geographical ground—from 1980s Trinidad to present-day London, Venezuela, and Italy—and some transitions feel rushed. Certain revelations about Dawn's father and potential half-siblings, while thematically relevant, sometimes feel like additions rather than integral plot developments. The pacing becomes uneven in the middle sections, where Dawn's daily life in London occasionally lacks the narrative urgency that drives the memories of Venezuela or the family dynamics in Trinidad. Some readers may find themselves more invested in the historical storylines than in Dawn's contemporary struggles with loneliness and purpose. Language and Voice Adam's prose style has matured since Golden Child, displaying greater confidence in sustained introspection and emotional complexity. The author captures the rhythms of Trinidadian speech without resorting to caricature, and Dawn's voice remains consistent whether she's recounting teenage trauma or middle-aged disappointments. The novel's title proves apt—love does indeed form and reform throughout the narrative, taking different shapes as Dawn's understanding of herself and her relationships evolves. The author's medical background adds authenticity to scenes involving Finlay's surgical training and Dawn's own abbreviated medical career, while her lived experience of Caribbean family structures provides depth to the Bishop family dynamics. Themes of Agency and Forgiveness Beyond its surface narrative about adoption and reunion, Love Forms interrogates larger questions about female agency and the long-term consequences of decisions made under duress. Dawn's journey toward self-forgiveness parallels her growing understanding that the sixteen-year-old girl who surrendered her baby was operating within severe constraints rather than making a truly free choice. The novel's treatment of class and privilege within Caribbean society adds another layer of complexity. The Bishops' relative wealth and social position both created the crisis—by making Dawn's pregnancy socially unacceptable—and provided the resources to manage it through expensive, secretive arrangements. Final Assessment Love Forms succeeds as both a compelling family drama and a thoughtful exploration of how personal and political histories intersect. While it may not achieve the tight focus of Adam's debut novel, it demonstrates the author's growing range and willingness to tackle complex emotional territory. The book's greatest achievement lies in its refusal to provide easy answers or neat resolutions—Dawn's story ends not with reunion but with a deeper understanding of herself and the forces that have shaped her life. This is a novel that will particularly resonate with readers interested in stories about motherhood, diaspora, and the long shadows cast by family decisions. Adam has crafted a work that honors both the pain of separation and the possibility of healing, making Love Forms a worthy addition to contemporary Caribbean literature and women's fiction more broadly.

Longlisted for International Booker Prize 2023 Even in poverty, there are castes. "Kumaresan's hand was the magic carpet that had brought her to a strange land." A lot of people say about this one that it's not bad. Well, I'm not afraid or ashamed to say that this is good.

Set in a small village in India, this translated story about a married Tamil couple from different castes, is engaging and heartbreaking. The writing is beautiful and still simple, the characters pure, and the circumstances harsh. It’s almost unimaginable how cruel people can be, but almost from the first page my chest tightened. I didn’t know what the title meant, and when I googled while reading I almost didn’t want to finish the story. I didn’t though, the story is only about 200 pages, and in the end, my heart flooded with sadness and anger. I received an ARC from Grove Atlantic and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.

★★★½☆ The tale was as creepy as the cover and its title… and got creepier precisely because of its title! Just like One Part Woman, where a couple is tormented by relatives and acquaintances for not having a child; in Pyre we see a newly married couple tormented by the entire village because the girl appears to be of a different caste. The mother-in-law Marayi leaves no stone unturned to hurl abuses and venom for she is highly disappointed by his son's choice and actions. The description of the new couple meeting all the uncles and aunts is heart wrenching. Story is woven well with quite a good amount of throwback moments. What I loved: 1. Great translation - keeping the essence with Nondi, Mapillai, Dey, Ada, saaru-chatti, melolachatti, mutti, soppu. 2. Engaging tale loaded with conversations 3. Spine chilling depiction of cruelty by the entire village against one couple! Could be better: 1. Usage of non-translated dish names instead of "millets" and rice at some instances… like Kozhambu and Kurma are used at other places. Overall: Recommended for a rustic background harping on casteism.

Pyre may seem so simply written on the surface. It may seem so not detailed in one sense, and yet as you turn the pages, and discover more, you see Mr. Murugan’s brilliance shine through the pages. From speaking about caste to patriarchy (because after all, it is all interlinked) to the micro-agressions that aren’t micro given the lay of the land, they are just aggressions, he takes the reader through a journey of strife, using themes such as love, religion, hatred, and the inequities that exist in every rung of societal hierarchy. Pyre opens with Saroja and Kumaresen getting off a bus and entering Kumaresen’s village. They are in love. They harbour a secret: Of their marriage being inter-caste. Saroja hopes she will be accepted by her husband’s family and extended village people. The entire village and Kumaresen’s relatives cannot come to terms with what has happened. Saroja still believes that her faith and love will conquer it all. Pyre simmers on every page. You can feel the heat, the hatred, the remoteness of the village, Saroja’s claustrophobia, Kumaresen’s helplessness, and his mother Marayi’s constant nagging, taunts, and temper. It is a book that is evocative, beguiling, and at the same time so raw in its approach – there are tender moments, far and few and in-between, but they exist nonetheless. The characters are few, the book is a short one, the sentences are sparse and simple, and so much is playing out for the reader. Murugan doesn’t allow you to breathe sometimes – it feels that sticky, humid, a breath caught in your throat, stuck somewhere deep inside, because of what you have just read – the traditions, the beliefs, the culture of the land that cannot bring itself to view love of two people. Aniruddhan Vasudevan’s translation is superbly succinct, and goes where the author takes him. Vasudevan brings his own touch to the cultural expressions that I am sure Murugan used very differently in the Tamil, and while reading it in the English you can see the effortless transition, or rather hear it in your head, as you go along. Pyre is tense and will always keep the reader on the edge. It is not an easy book to digest. It is also not easy to imagine what is happening, and what might. It is brutal, empathetic, nuanced, and tender – all at the same time.

It ended & I hoped it hadn't. I surprisingly loved the novel; it's a bit different, with a life of its own that meshes into the readers' minds so easily. Though we don't actually come across the caste arrangement in the big cosmopolitan cities these days, it is nevertheless exceedingly honored & supported in the tiny communities of India. The characterization is entirely practical & I didn't sense any distortion in terms of story-telling. This is my first translated book reading & I liked each bit of it. I didn't know that the original Tamil author Perumal is such a big star & his other work is similarly well acclaimed. I am happy that I could read one of his novels.

Simple yet heartbreaking.The story starts with warm and joyful tone,but by the end,it turns tragic.The story follows two lovers,Kumaresan and Saroja,who come from different castes and how the village ostracizes them.I really liked how the author shows love and social cruelty side by side.

Very good story telling.

Originally written in Tamil and translated to English. Very well written and really enjoyed hearing all the internal thoughts of the characters. I could hear how it would have been written in Tamil — it retained the flavor of the language as much as possible. Made me wish I could read Tamil! But just a warning it was very very sad.

My first Perumal Murugan and I know I'll have to read all his work. A seemingly simple story of love becomes a searing tale of how caste, colour, and customs can cleave communities (that's some alliteration!! ;) Thoroughly recommended.

It would be an understatement to say that diving into Kumaresan and Saroja’s world on the rock was a triggering, nerve wracking, unpalatable, uncomfortable experience. A young couple belonging to different castes decides to get married and naively believes that his elders and family will accept them eventually. (No spoilers when I say that this doesn’t happen. One doesn’t expect happy endings when one picks up Perumal Murugan’s work) What stumped me was just how viscerally I was able to feel Saroja’s fear. A lone girl who naively chooses to believe a near stranger when she believes she has fallen in love and then the utter abject despondence that she experiences in her new husband’s absence amidst hostile surroundings and worse people. And then there is Marayi. I know I would have classified her the villain 15 years ago. Today, I cannot defend her but can I dismiss her motivations? I am not sure. This is a tough read. One that at least as resident Indians with access to daily news and popular culture portrayals in the media both, is not shocking or even new. And yet, it unsettles. Maybe some future reader will find it more shocking because society moved on from this inexplicable cruelty. One can only hope

This was a very fluid read. I am trying to emerge from a reading slump and couldn’t have asked for a better book. It is short & precise. The writing is powerful. Story revolves around a girl from a humble background family in the town, marrying a boy from the village, from a different caste, coming to his village, to be rejected as a couple. The rejection grows from subtle to deadly. Set in around the 80s, would be the harsh reality anywhere in India. The end left me by surprise and I am still not over it.

I love that, at the end, the 'pyre' is symbolized by her escaping the fire and becoming stout in her determination to live.

I have heard a lot about Perumal Murugun, who is a distinguished writer in literary circles. I happened to come across this book while browsing the shelves of Rachna Books. The blurb was intriguing, so I decided to sample his writing. Pyre is a story about Kumaresan and Saroja who arrive in Kumaresan's remote village after getting married. Kumaresan knows deep within that his mother and his villagers won't approve of an inter-caste marriage, so they try to keep it a secret. The story is about what happens next. The narration flows so smoothly. No wonder Mr. Murugan is highly acclaimed. I liked the characters too. They are drawn well, and their backstories were provided satisfactorily. The love story between the lead characters is described beautifully. It's adorable how they fall for each other despite knowing much about each other. Love is blind, as the saying goes. The present is also narrated well. I could feel the tension brewing in the ambiance at home and the village. I could feel for Kumaresan and Saroja. I could feel their sadness, their love, their fears, their regrets. Pitted against a society with an age-old mindset, their lives are filled with anxiety. I could relate to that. But I hated Marayi, Kumaresan's mother. Her raw hatred towards the couple, just for a small mistake they committed was appalling. I wish the author had painted her more realistically because after all, she is a mother. The descriptions, as expected from a good literary fiction novel, are vivid and detailed. The language is simple and lucid without much wordplay, which is well suited to this story. The grammar is also watertight as expected. The ending is terrifying. It did haunt me for a few days. The blurb makes it clear that it's not going to end well, but despite that, the brutality of it all was difficult to digest. The last line was genius though. It sort of gave an open ending; it is up to the reader to guess what happens. I loved it, and yet I was filled with immense sadness. Overall, this is a nice, short fiction by an acclaimed writer. However, although it was an interesting read, it somehow didn't have that wow factor. That satisfied, wholesome feeling you get when you read a brilliant book. 4.2 stars from my side.

'Pyre' is my first Perumal Murugan book. Well actually, "Pookkuzhi" is the book he originally wrote in Tamil which was translated into English as Pyre by Aniruddhan Vasudevan. It is about a young man who leaves his village in search of a job and comes back with a newly wed wife from the town. All the people in his village including his mother are very agitated when they find out he married a girl from a different caste. How the couple deals with them and the harshness of this sudden reality is the story. It was truly daunting but also educating to read about a time and place where caste based discrimination was extremely prevalent in Tamilnadu. (TBH, it still is in some places.) As one can imagine, a novel written in Tamil about a particular rural area and it's people will be packed with words and phrases of a certain dialect. Some common words, names, expressions are exclusive to those particular people. This unique quality of the dialogue I thought was lost in translation. Something so endearing or powerful or cutthroat in Tamil, may seem like a silly combination of words when translated into English. The translator himself explains how he wishes he could sometimes have left whole sentences in Tamil because the translation just didn't cut it. All that said, Pyre was absolutely gripping. The translator has done a wonderful job of bringing the narrative and conversations to life. I would be lying if I didn't admit to being discouraged by the book a few pages in, but I am so so glad I kept going because it turned out to be a fantastic read. I was taken by full surprise with how the book ended and I'm completely sold on Perumal Murugan, I shall be stocking up on more of his books. If I string up the courage, I may just one day read Pookkuzhi in Tamil. If any of you read this book, I'd love to discuss it with you- the little hints & nuances, the emotion, the title, the book cover, everything!

Beautiful, fascinating, and depressing. 💗 On rare occasions, I'll appreciate every story in a collection of short stories. All of the stories have ratings greater than 3. The book's title is a myth, to be specific. They are not cheerful tales; instead, they are filled with searing feelings about individuals and life in general. These tales are connected despite their glaring disparities. Though they include various characters and plots, they convey the same emotion. Norman excelled at narrating stories and evoking these depressing feelings in us. a gifted writer and great storyteller. Overall rating :- 4 stars 🙌💜 ---------------------- Enkidu Comes Knocking on New Year’s Eve :- 4 stars -Even though the story was only one page long, I knew the full book would be excellent. The poetic wording simply creates the atmosphere. A Bedtime Story for Your Long Sleep :- 4.5 stars -What was that? I'm in admiration. Yes, I enjoy reading sad stories before night, and I enjoyed this one. What's your name Sandra? :- 3 stars -This book's clickbait title asks readers to think of these tales as happy ones. Having lost her son, the mother is currently trying to find her position in society. So emotional. A Young Poet’s Guide to Surviving a Broken Heart :- 4 stars -I made notes. The true story of the story of giant :- 5 stars -Omg this is perfect. It's both upsetting and sad. It discusses death, love, and friendship. I need to read more of the excellent author's books. Three Love You, Four Despise You :- 3.5 stars -"How stupid of him, not to realise that he’s made of limestone, not tiresome red flesh and blood and pale skin and bone, liable to be stolen or recycled." 2 pages long, but packed with intense feelings Metaxu: Jakarta, 2038 :- 3.5 stars -a future-set tale about loss of family and how barriers may both divide and unite us. Very heartbreaking and depressing. Deep Brown, Verging on Black :- 3.5 stars -Oh my God, that was spooky. Gave me Edward Cullen vibes, however it came to a really tragic conclusion. Welcome to the Department of Unanswered Prayers :- 4 stars Norman, Mr. Yes, you merit all the acclaim. Such a tale! What a presumption. The heading and the epilogue ( not to forget the entire story was in monologue). Stunning, intriguing, and depressing. Ad maiorem dei gloriam :- 3.5 stars -Despite their stark differences, these stories are all related. They transmit the same sentiment but have different people and plots. Our Descendants Will Be as Numerous as the Clouds in the Sky :- 5 stars -a tale involving a woman, her lone child, and his son's spouse. I have a strong bond with mother-child narratives. Even when they are joyful, they always make me sad, which is kind of strange to describe. Her story :- 4.5 star -It was easy to relate to this. Highly recommended👉👈

Winner of the 2022 Republic of Consciousness Prize Longlisted for the 2022 International Booker Prize Little green, he's a non-conformer Little green, have a happy ending (Joni Mitchell, Little Green) Happy Stories, Mostly is the translation from Indonesian by Tiffany Tsao of the 2020 short-story collection Cerita-cerita Bahagia, Hampir Seluruhnya by Norman Erikson Pasaribu. This is the 6th year of the UK's most exciting literary prize, the Republic of Consciousness, and the prize has now featured books from 44 small independent presses, including six first timers this year. Perhaps a little surprisingly given their profile, this is the first time Tilted Axis have featured. I have previously read Sergius Seeks Bacchus (my review). a collection of poems from the same author/translator/publisher and commented on how well it fitted with Tilted Axis's (then) mission statement, including the author's own intersectional background (per Tsao "a queer Toba-Batak-Indonesian poet from a working-class Christian background"). A not-for-profit press on a mission to shake up contemporary international literature. Tilted Axis publishes the books that might not otherwise make it into English, for the very reasons that make them exciting to us – artistic originality, radical vision, the sense that here is something new. Tilting the axis of world literature from the centre to the margins allows us to challenge that very division. These margins are spaces of compelling innovation, where multiple traditions spark new forms and translation plays a crucial role. As part of carving out a new direction in the publishing industry, Tilted Axis is also dedicated to improving access. We’re proud to pay our translators the proper rate, and to operate without unpaid interns. One of the poems, "ON A PAIR OF YOUNG MEN IN THE UNDERGROUND CAR PARK AT FX SUDIRMAN MALL", includes lines that sum up the collection: are sure the longing they feel is genuine longing and the love in their hearts is the same love that made Sergius and Bacchus one, and the loneliness they feel in their vacant rooms is no different from John Henry Newman’s from 1876 to his death, and isn’t it the rest of the world that has it all wrong? Aelred of Rievaulx said there is nothing more exquisite than to love and be loved – it’s true, even though they also know that the world’s just not ready for us. This sense of simply seeking acceptance is key to this collection as well, as well as a certain sense of humour. The collection's original title Cerita-cerita Bahagia, Hampir Seluruhnya, which literally translated would be Happy Stories, Almost All, is a ironic retort to a Goodreads review of a previous the author's first collection, the reviewer suggesting he change the title to "Stories of People in Suffering." One signature feature of Tilted Axis books is a frontpiece explaining the meaning of a key word in the text, and here it focuses on the Hampir (Almost) in the title, a word the author delibarately chose as: Hampir, the Indonesian for almost, only a letter away from vampir-the bloodsucking demon. What does it mean to be happy? Also, what does it mean to be almost happy? To almost get in, to be almost accepted, to be almost there, but, at the same time, to be not there/accepted/in. So, in a world where we celebrate disneyfied heterosexualities, for queer folks, what is happiness? Often, if becomes the bloodsucking demon, the vampir, the hampir. The relationship between author and translator seems particularly close here, as shown by a conversation between the two added to the end of the text, one which also explains the author's approach: Layered stories, with their endless connections to other or older texts, work damn well with queer narratives. We need to invent our own new histories, because our own histories have often been erased, and fiction is just the way for that. The collection itself consists of 12 pieces ranging in length from a page to 32 pages, with light interconnections between them. The collection opens with the one page "Endiku Comes Knocking on New Year’s Eve", more a prose poem than a story, inspired by a flood in the author's home area. "A Bedtime Story for Your Long Sleep" is about how everyone believes they have the darkest secretsor most miserable experience. It begins the first time I took a short story writing class, I was asked to tell the saddest story that I'd ever heard and the narrator begins with a far-fetched story told to him by his mother, but ends up constructing "a babel Tower of misery": If the tale of me telling the story of Alarm Man and being thought a liar was sadder than the story of Alarm Man itself, wouldn't the tale of be being thought a liar after telling the story of me telling the story of Alarm Man and being thought a liar be sadder still. "So What’s Your Name, Sandra", is written with a soundtrack of Joni Mitchell's "Little Green" in mind, as is a moving tale of a woman visiting Thailand after her son committed suicide after she had rejected him when he told her he was dating another boy. "A Young Poet's Guide to Surviving a Broken Heart" is a self-help guide / hypothetical story but: In short, all a young poet needs in order to survive a broken heart is: (1) one button-down shirt or dress, scintillating; (2) one sheet of tissue, premium; (3) a pair of running shoes, soles intact; (4) one novel by a writer with an intimidatingly long name; (5) one empty cardboard instant-noodle box; (6) the album Blue by Joni Mitchell; (7) and one book unburdened by whether "where" in Indonesian should be "dimana" or "di mana" because its written in a foreign language, say, Finnish. — Ginanjar Dantonik, romance consultant on the now–defunct Rawa Belong Young Poets' Community listserv "The True Story of the Story of the Giant", the longest piece, was the highlight of the collection for me, the narrator a heterosexual student whose cousin, Jamie, has come out as homosexual and is very happy, but whose closest companion at university, Tunggul, has repressed his own sexuality. The link between the two is a obscure story of a giant in early Dutch colonial times, one which combines Batak theology and the pernicious effect of colonialism: Tunggul went on to tell me about Parulian, who lived in :he 1850s, before the start of the Batak War. Not much historical information was available about him. Just a few notes here and there, saying that he was the offspring of a human being and a begu ganjang—a long-bodied creature in Batak stories from days of yore. Some said that Parulian was a living stepping stone, through which Mulajadi Na Bolon—God in traditional Batak theology—descended to the middle world. Our world. Any mention of Parulian, which wasn't much at all, wasn't coherent enough to be considered evidence—to the point that historians initially considered his story a folktale. Yet, according to Tunggul, one thing was for certain: the very fact of Parulian's presence made the Dutch tremble. The man as tall as a mountain deterred the VOC, the Dutch East India Company, from expanding their rule into Tapanuli. Tunggul's own situation isn't helped by his parents, both highly religious but from different, Islamic vs. Christian, backgrounds, fighting over his soul: Life at home felt like being in the middle of the Crusades, but with him as Jerusalem. "Three Love You, Four Despise You" is another brief piece, but one which ties many of the collection's themes together, its title with echoes of Proverbs actually taken from the 3m * 4m standard size of a room in a kos, the Indonesian boarding houses which feature in many of the stories. "Metaxu: Jakarta 2038" takes its title from Simone Weil's concept (from Gravity and Grace, translated by Emma Crawford and Mario van der Rurh): Two prisoners whose cells adjoin communicate with each other by knocking on the wall. The wall is the thing which separates them but it is also their means of communication. It is the same with us and God. Every separation is a link., with this theme of separation and walls another common link across the stories. It is set in a near-future world and also inspired by the (heteronormative?) Selamat Datang (Welcome) Monument in Jakarta, set up to welcome the world to the 1962 Asian Games and to symbolise the Indonesian people greeting their future. Here with the city abandoned for a futuristic new town, it has become the Bon Voyage Monument. "Deep Brown, Verging on Black" is a haunting tale of obsession, the narrator stalking someone he believes is a child she knew many years earlier, with the same coloured eyes, their connection lost after an "incident" (which the story hints involves a group of children being abused by a priest). "Welcome to the Department of Unanswered Prayers" was a bit of a misttep for me, a satiral story of bureaucrats (former mortals) in Heaven, although the Weilian theme of the wall between even these inhabitants of the heavenly realm and God is one that fits the overall theme, as is that of unanswered wishes. "Ad maiorem dei gloriam" is told from the perspective of a retired nun, Tula, whose faith and connection with God is weakening (the wall again) and who keeps sneaking out of her convent, and changing out of her habit, seeking human connection. She finds it in a widowed father Yohannes (who has since realised heis gay) and his sick son. Tula hides her identity from the father and son, but when they ask about her family: "What does your husband do?" "He's the Lord," says Tula, "And he doesn't care about me any more." Yohannes gives a startled snort, "Huh?" "A landlord I mean," she says. "His business always keeps him busy. You'd think he owned the whole world." "I ... see. And your family? What about your mother?" "She gave birth to my husband. Some people call her the Queen of Heaven?" "Our Descendants Will Be as Numerous as the Clouds in the Sky" is based on a mis-remembered version of Genesis 26:4. It is another very moving story, narrated from the perspective of a woman who lives with her son, his husband and their boy, born from a surrogate parent. The woman feels she has come, with difficulty, to accept her son's situation, but gradually learns that her coldness initially to her son-in-law and their marriage has left lasting scars. Neatly, adding to the links between the collection, her son-in-law is writing a novel which is the same as the previous story "Ad maiorem dei gloriam". "Her Story" finishes the collection with a delightful metafictional twist, a woman who discovers her life is fictional (when she goes for the first time up the stairs in her kos to another flaw, she finds only blank walls as the narrator hasn't filled in that part): She hopes her story isn't some sad tale intended to attract readers who've given up on life A brilliant inclusion on the Republic of Consciousness list, and a strong Booker International contender. 4.5 stars.

This group of short stories by Indonesian author Norman Erikson Pasaribu has a playful, metafictional vibe while evoking many vivid characters and situations that contain a great deal of emotional heft. Many focus on the points of views of characters related to or connected with homosexuals whether it be a mother grieving for her son who committed suicide, a man whose close friend turns out to be gay or a woman who snoops through the underwear drawer of her son's husband. The feelings of marginalization and isolation which accompanies much of gay life is approached at arm's length. This sense is carried through the opening and closing stories which are in many ways about the nature of fiction itself. The first story begins in a creative writing class. The final story concerns a woman aware she is being written and finds empty space when she tries to transcend the borders of what is constructed for her. All this ties into the presence of religion throughout the stories and questions concerning omnipotence, destiny and God. These tales collectively give a fascinating insight into Indonesian life and individuals sidelined by mainstream society. Read my full review of Happy Stories, Mostly by Norman Erikson Pasaribu at LonesomeReader

Norman Erikson Pasaribu Cerita-Cerita Bahagia, Hampir Seluruhnya Gramedia Pustaka Utama 203 pages 8.3 (Best New Book) Norman Erikson Pasaribu's Cerita-Cerita Bahagia, Hampir Seluruhnya comprises excellent short stories that feel tender and meek. Pasaribu, an observant author indeed, explores the themes of grief and loss, but at the same time he also celebrates his queerness unapologetically, thus the exuberant title. One of the most notable poetries that I particularly enjoy from Pasaribu's amazing poetry collection, Sergius Mencari Bacchus: 33 Puisi , is about a couple of young men who were in consummate love at a basement parking lot of a mall. There Pasaribu shows off his keen observation; his sentences are long, elaborating the couple's longing and heartache and drawing parallels between their love and Christian mythos of Sergius and Bacchus, the alleged patron saints of gay people. His detailed lines allow me to actually feel what this couple feel and I think this is where Pasaribu's penmanship shines through. He's able to shift the readers' attention to beautiful things that are usually neglectable. So when his keenness, which works effectively in the form of poetry, is used for narrative form, it translates into something that is even more impactful and devastating. The way Pasaribu describes in excruciating details things that other authors even bothered to see or notice really resonates with me. In Siapa Namamu, Sandra?, clearly one of the highlights from this book, I am particularly moved by his description of washing machine standing on a polystyrene base, some common setup in many families that's hard to shed off. Or in another highlight, Kisah Sesungguhnya Tentang Lelaki Raksasa, the code-switching to 'gue-lo' that most of non-Jakartans who move to Jakarta for college do really sticks with me. These details add more emotive layer to the story, so when the tragedy hits in those stories, they can crush your heart harder. Pasaribu's gentle and sensitive heart can also be observed from how he portrays the familial theme, especially in the maternal department. This is clearly seen in Siapa Namamu, Sandra?, where the protagonist, a grieving mother, decided to travel to Vietnam after the death of her beloved son. Pasaribu paints a mother's pain and sorrow, but also her regret because she failed to love her son fully after learning about his boyfriend. The theme of a mother's regret recurs again in Keturunan Kita Akan Sebanyak Awan di Angkasa. In Ad Maiorem Dei Gloriam, Pasaribu shows that maternal love doesn't only come from your mother, but also from a lonely stranger. Pasaribu obviously gets his inspiration from his own life. Coming from Batak and Christian background, it's no surprise that many elements in this book are borrowed from his cultural upbringing. You will find that Pasaribu often throws Batak and Christian references here; the title of Keturunan Kita Akan Sebanyak Awan di Angkasa comes from God's promise to Abraham. But somehow, you can also sense his faith relapse and frustration with the higher being. In Divisi Doa Tak Berjawab, Pasaribu imagines heaven as a bureaucratic and ineffective office ala The Office. Deciding on prayer's answer is still God's prerogative and no one still doesn't know the reason, even the heaven workers themselves. But seeing how these people work, it's no wonder that many prayers are unanswered. Pasaribu is a queer writer and this book is his medium to celebrate that. So that's why many stories here feature gay characters; whether they're still in the closet or already out. You will probably wonder why the book is called (mostly) happy stories despite its sepulchral theme of grief and loss. I can only think two reasons: first, celebration is a happy thing, and second, gay initially means happy and joyful. I guess in this book, Pasaribu wants to reclaim that definition.

A solid collection that had a few stories that didn’t resonate as much as often happens in a collection, but most of which captured the idea of coming close to happiness yet not quite making it. There were a couple of stories that were quite funny, A Young Poet’s Guide to Surviving a Broken Heart which is entirely self-explanatory and Welcome to the Department of Unanswered Prayers, a cynical view of the afterlife. Several of the most successful for me were those that revolved around older women which is something I always enjoy reading about. Mothers of gay sons feature in several stories and the consequences of their views on those relationships with their sons, who hide their sexuality if only for a while. This feeling of needing to hide queerness comes up again in one of my favorite stories about a nun and the single father she meets, Ad maiorem dei gloriam. Religion is another theme that comes up frequently, usually as something constrictive and didactic and there are references to colonial history in various ways including in another favorite The True Story of the Story of the Giant. This playing with stories themselves is very much a part of the final very meta story, Her Story, where the narrator realizes she’s a character and wonders about her author. In the translation conversation at the end of the book between Norman Erikson Pasaribu and Tiffany Tsao he makes the point that these stories should be read slowly and then reread to really tweeze out all the layers and connections. Short stories do seem to lend themselves really well to rereading and noticing things you missed first time around so I’m hoping to go back and reread this over the coming months and see what that brings.

I really loved this. The stories were so witty and full of a really sharp sense of dry humour that I just adored. The story about Alarm Man is going to haunt me for the rest of my life. I love how it explored such a wide range of sadness and emotions with a really detached and cool demeanour. Would definitely read more from this author as I absolutely loved these stories.

This is an intimate collection of short stories largely set in Indonesia that range in form and content. Another strong short story collection from the Booker International 2022 long list, imo. The stories vary in length but all have queerness, and its many interpretations of the word, either as a central theme or on the margins. These stories ask questions about what it means to belong or not? They ask us to grapple with how we internalize and narrate our experiences with an authority that is often rather narrow. It points out to us how we are all storytellers, whether we like it or not, and stories pervade every facet of our lives. Norman E. Pasaribu writes these tales that are mostly sad with a wryness and humour that is quite compelling, while also inviting us to experience the pain and isolation so many of the characters encounter and carry with them. I also found that there is a fable-like quality inherent in these stories as people seek to find themselves. In fact, the more fable like stories were some of my favourites. The stories are loosely connected, which I wish I had know before starting, but was a pleasant surprise to discover as this reveals a degree of meta-level storytelling, which haunts each story. My favourite stories are largely at the back end of the collection, but here are some notables: A Bedtime Story for Your Long Sleep: a writer telling the saddest story he has ever heard. A story about history, writing, and belief. What’s Your Name Sandra: a mother who faces questions about her own sense of self and belonging after the death of her son whom she rejected for being gay. A personal favourite that broke my heart. Deep Brown, Verging on Black: a haunting tale of obsession and addiction. Ad maiorem die gloriam: a nun who rebels against her cloistered life, and how dreams are not what thy are made out to be. Her Story: a woman becomes conscious of the limits of her existence. I will say no more. Very meta. #happystoriesmostly #normaneriksonoasaribu #translatedfiction #bookerinternationalprize #shortstories #indonesianfictiion

Longlisted for the 2022 International Booker Prize . Norman Erickson Pasaribu, a queer Indonesian writer, introduces the reader to a refreshing contemporary voice with ‘Happy Stories, Mostly’. A collection of short stories varied in length, these are cerebral depictions of being queer and young in Indonesia - the awkwardness, sense of dissociation, and questioning of identity and self preservation are laid bare in sharp prose. As a younger reader, I thoroughly enjoyed ‘Happy Stories, Mostly’, Pasaribu writes candidly and shows his skill as a poet turned fiction writer in their 20s, who will likely make the shortlist for the International Booker Prize this year.

I rarely read short stories but this book made me do it. I don't know how to describe this book, but it feels surreal and real at the same time. This is the first Norman's book that I read, but I'm already in love with how he wrote the narrations: smart, beautiful, and enticing. The intersections between Bataknese, Catholic, and Queer identities made up the characters and impacted the stories here. One thing I noticed is that (almost?) all the main character is cis-hetero. I don't know what the author intended to convey here (does he try to re-create the reality faced by queer people here?), but damn it gave so much tragedy and sadness to the story. the way that those queer people too are also our friends, family, and even stranger, and they can leave an impact on our life. My favorite stories are: Siapa Namamu, Sandra?, Divisi Doa Tak Berjawab, dan Keturunan Kita Akan Sebanyak Awan di Angkasa (honorable mention: Pupil Matanya Cokelat Gelap Hampir Hitam, wow this one made me gasp at the end of the story)

A collection of short stories about life and relationships rooted in Queer, Batak, and Christian culture. The stories were heartfelt, poignant, and very true to the title of the book. My absolute favorite story was A Young Poet's Guide to Surviving a Broken Heart, the storytelling, the pacing, the rhythm was just perfection. But, I also really enjoyed Enkidu Comes Knocking on New Year's Eve, The True Story of the Story of the Giant, Welcome to the Department of Unanswered Prayers, Ad maiorem de gloriam, and Her Story.

"Hampir, the Indonesian for almost, only a letter away from 'vampir' - the bloodsucking demon. what does it mean to be happy? Also, what does it mean to be almost happy? To almost get in, to be almost accepted, to be almost there, but, at the same time, to be not there/accepted/in" Happy Stories, Mostly (now longlisted for the 2022 International Booker Prize and the Republic of Consciousness Prize) is a collection of 12 short stories (translated from Indonesian to English by Tiffany Tsao) blending different genres ranging from science fiction, experimental, dystopian, folklore, and metafiction. The main theme for these stories centered around LGBTQ issues, in particular, heteronormativity, in which Pasaribu seeks to explore the counterbalance between heterosexuality as the preferred norm and homosexuality as the "outcast", the "almost" (or the "hampir"), from the Asian perspective (or rather, the Indonesian perspective). Hovering around this main theme, Pasaribu inculcated various side themes such as the aftermaths of post-colonialism, the clash between religious dogmas in Indonesia (in particular Christianity vs Islam) as well as certain satirical comments on Indonesia's state and governance: "Indonesians - by which I mean, we - don't have time to make such lists or become such people. Too many problems. Too many news headlines: forced evictions, fake vaccines, anti-communist riots"; "If you ask me, is any nation - especially a postcolonial one - ever not at a crossroads? Even more so if you're poor". My favourite story would definitely be "The True Story of the Story of the Giant" and I believe this story is the longest one in this collection. The narrator of this story, a heterosexual, met Tunggul (a homosexual who suppressed his own sexuality) at university and the link between these 2 would be the folklore involving Parulian (a giant during the Dutch colonial times). After confronting his love for the narrator and being rejected by the narrator, there is a change in Tunggul's mannerisms and Tunggul eventually committed suicide. Aiming to complete Tunggul's thesis, the narrator took up the quest to research about Parulian and the Batak War and due to the lack of materials, the narrator decided to write a fictional story about Parulian as "in this version, we lived beyond the reach of Europe's long wooden arm". My other favourites would be "Metaxu: Jakarta 2038" (set in the near future where human labor is hardly needed and the characters are recounting the pasts of the old Jakarta), "So What’s Your Name, Sandra" (a mother's visit to Mỹ Sơn after her son committed suicide due to the mother's rejection of his sexuality), "Welcome to the department of unanswered prayers" (a satirical piece of work set in a bureaucratic afterlife). Pasaribu's writing is charming, emotional, and poetic. These stories, taken as a whole, portrayed a beautiful quest for love and acceptance for LGBTQs in this cruel world. It is a calling or a challenge against conformity, heteronormativity, and discrimination. I quote Pasaribu's interview with Tiffany: "We queer are always thrown to the hampir, to the almost, and there the idea of happiness turns into the vampir". A strong 4.5/5 star rating from me. Another worthy longlistee for the 2022 International Booker Prize.

"Queer stories with a happy narrative? that's new (at least to me)," was my initial thought before reading. Only later did we find out that Norman had stated clearly in the title that most of them were "Hampir Seluruhnya". Despite having limited understanding of Batak, Catholicism, or various queer references (thanks Google) nor having ever lived in Bekasi, this book still speaks very clearly to me. Its cruel and saddening yet hopeful and dreamy characters are layered meticulously. I am laughing at the character laughing about their own miseries, but later on I remembered that some other days I encountered relatively the same scenario. This being Norman's first work that I read only makes me long for Norman's other writings.

26th book of 2022. Not published till the 23rd of March but already on the Man Booker International longlist. Technically, Hurricane Season is probably the 'better'(?) novel, but I enjoyed this one way more. It's dark, suffocating, sad. It's a novel that before its violent conclusion, circles around the universal feeling of being young, 20-something and wanting to be free of the place you were born/live, if only you had money. It reminded me of the feeling I get in the local pubs around here (back in the hometown I was born in post-university) and seeing the faces of boys I once shared classrooms with ten plus years ago. In fact, not so long ago I was drinking in a pub with some friends and spoke to J.G. who had never been my friend but we had both been drinking and recognised each other, so were friendly. I asked him what he was doing now and he said he was a cleaner of sorts: he got a call when somewhere was COVID contaminated and he went and cleaned it. That's how he explained it though I don't really understand if that's what he meant or if he was just a cleaner without the phone calls. And talking to him I had the same feeling of desperation as Polo in Paradais, that I want to get out, want to be free of it all, the same old roads, the same old faces. Melchor captures it really well, on top of drink and porn addiction with the revolting character of Franco. The tone and style is really quite similar to Hurricane Season though I found it tamer and because of that, actually more realistic and grittier. A short read but a great one with a terrifying Capote-reminding ending. Good stuff. It probably won't win, but nice to see it on the longlist all the same.

This book is a wet dream that feeds itself. It is the rainy season in Mexico and the luxury resort "Paradise" is situated directly on the river. It drips from the leaves and the teenage Polo, who does all kinds of handyman jobs at the resort, gets drunk every night under that canopy of leaves with the disgusting Franco, who lives with his grandparents at the resort. Franco has bizarre sex and violent fantasies that sprout in his brain like the spores of a fungus and gradually tip the dream into reality. It is a breathless novel that makes it clear from the beginning that paradise can also be hell, that a nightmare often lurks beneath a dream and that things are not fair in this world. The plot grows, becomes a feverish miasma and settles on the reader's mind as a sticky film. The inevitable is at hand and just as you have to swallow the worm with the last sip of mescal, so you choke down the last pages. The novel first makes you drunk and finally leaves you sobered. A great book.

i felt like i just spent hours in a evil and depraved man's mind. incredible writing but im sick to my stomach and never want to read this again and will not be recommending it to anyone ever thank you

A hard book to put down. A noir book for hard times.

Longlisted for the 2021 Baillie Gifford Prize for Non-Fiction and shortlisted for the 2021 International Booker Translation longlisted for the 2022 Oxford-Weidenfeld Prize This book about my family is not about my family at all, but something quite different: the way memory works, and what memory wants from me. In a wonderful translation by poet Sasha Dugdale, one produced in close colloboration with the original author Maria Stepanova, In Memory of Memory is a dazzling hybrid of many forms and one in dialogue with authors and artists from Mandelstam, Charlotte Salomon and WG Sebald (Across what distances in time do the elective affinities and correspondences connect? in Michael Hulse's translation of The Rings of Saturn) to Tove Jansson's Fillyjonk. From personal taste, the thoughts on memory were more striking that the family history, but this is likely to be one of 2021's key books. 4.5 stars. A fascinating blog review: https://woodbeepoet.com/2021/02/06/ev... Interviews with author and translator: https://puncturedlines.wordpress.com/... https://koreanliteraturenow.com/essay...

122nd book of 2022. 4.5. Brilliant: a wonderful walk through history, both personal and not, with a poet's touch. I see Stepanova as the place between W.G. Sebald and Olivia Laing (particularly as Henry Darger gets a flying mention). I read fairly recently that a certain literary lineage can be tracked through from Proust, to Nabokov, to Sebald. In some ways I imagine Stepanova being the next inevitable step in this particular line of writers. Regarding Proust and Sebald alone, Stepanova has something of the melancholy and loneliness. There's a lot of silence in her book: describing photographs, old films, pan-European landscapes... I recently said to someone that this book feels as if it should be dense and elitist but it just isn't; Stepanova has somehow nailed this perfect tone of personal, impersonal, human, humble, light. As Laing did in The Lonely City so much of the feelings in this book is derived from talking about artists and their work. There are long digressions. At many points I forgot this was a book about her family: in some ways it's not. It's a book about memory, art, what we owe the dead and how we can talk about them/remember them. Obviously other novelists and artists help Stepanova (in times of need who doesn't turn to art?) process her thoughts and emotions. Naturally, with how the book reads, Sebald and Nabokov get many name-drops. Proust less than I imagined but he's here too. Considering it is such a mix of travelogue, criticism, art exploration, history, etc., like a Sebald novel, I devoured it page after page because of Stepanova's prose. Highly recommended. You may ask why it isn't a 5-star, then; this is a good question and one I can't answer. I just didn't quite get swept with that 5-star feeling even though I have almost nothing bad to say about the book and would readily recommend it. Reading is a mysterious thing.

Memory is handed down, history is written down; memory is concerned with justice, history with preciseness; memory moralizes, history tallies up and corrects; memory is personal, history dreams of objectivity; memory is based not on knowledge, but on experience: compassion with, sympathy for a desperate pain demanding immediate involvement. At the same time the landscape of memory is strewn with projections, fantasies and misrepresentations — the ghosts of today, with their faces turned to the past. Maria Stepanova had always been fascinated by family artefacts — the photos, diaries, letters, and postcards that recorded the lives of this family of Russian Jews who, for the most part, traversed the twentieth century unscathed — and from a very young age, she always knew that when she was old enough, when she had enough life experience and context, she would write about these people known only through sepia-toned images and faded fountain-penned lines. When her aunt passed away, removing one more source of family knowledge, Stepanova — by now a celebrated poet, essayist, and editor — decided it was time to finally pull together everything she knew (family stories overlaid with what is recorded of the times through various art forms), and In Memory of Memory is the result. This is a fairly dense read: the stories, transcribed correspondence, Stepanova’s travels and what she relates about twentieth century art and letters is all fascinating reading, and underpinned with philosophical writing about what can actually be captured about history and memory, this is something more than memoir; certainly something more than one family’s history, and I found the whole to be an education and a starting point for deeper contemplation. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) We sat at a long wooden table in the library, which appeared to hold every book written on any matter that might be considered Jewish. I asked questions and got answers. Then the museum advisor, a historian, asked me what I was writing about and I began to explain. “Ah,” he said. “One of those books where the author travels around the world in search of his or her roots — there are plenty of those now.” “Yes,” I answered. “And now there will be one more.” Although the family’s Jewishness didn’t figure very prominently in the letters and diaries they left behind, it had made them targets throughout twentieth century Russia — subject to pogroms, asset confiscation under the Bolsheviks, exile and relocation, held under suspicion during “The Jewish Doctor Plot” — and antisemitism isn’t going away anytime soon. Having been raised in the want and fear of Soviet Russia, when the Berlin Wall came down, Stepanova’s parents immediately applied to emigrate to Germany, to their daughter’s surprise. Within a few years, they boarded a train from Moscow, and as Stepanova watched her parents pull away, “a man holding a can of beer glanced at me from out a train door and said: ‘Kill the yids and save Russia.’ It’s all too neat, but that is how it happened.” More recently, Stepanova went to Paris, visiting the hotel where her great-grandmother stayed while studying medicine at the Sorbonne. The current Jewish owner told her, “It’s very hard for us here again. I give us at best another five years in France. After that it will be worse. Far worse.” Between untended Jewish cemeteries, family names that disappear from official records, and knowing that her own direct line had been lucky to avoid the worst disasters of their times, there is a sense of urgency to preserve this family’s story. Putting my family on general view, even if I do it with as much love as I can muster and with the best words in the best order, is, after all, something of a Ham’s deed, exposing the vulnerable and naked body of the family, its dark armpits, its pale belly. And most likely I would learn nothing new in writing it, and just knowing this made the act of writing even more fraught. Yes, free of scandalous revelation, far from the hell of Péter Esterházy, who found out that his beloved father had worked for the secret police, but also far from the bliss of having always known everything about your people, and bearing this knowledge with pride. Neither of these outcomes were mine. This book about my family is not about my family at all, but something quite different: the way memory works, and what memory wants from me. In this way, In Memory of Memory is about so much more than this one family; it’s also an examination of what can really be known about what we accept as “history” after everyone who lived through it is gone. To that end, Stepanova examines historical work that is not just intertextual, but interdisciplinary. She connects Shirley Jackson’s horror novels with Francesca Woodman’s photography and Joseph Cornell’s art boxes with Salvador Dalí’s painting (just two examples of many such connections), mixing in the essays of Susan Sontag, the poetry of the exiled Osip Mandelstam, referencing music, film, and memoir; leading to countless passages like the following: Jean Cocteau said that cinema is the only art form that records death at work. Rembrandt’s self-portraits are solely occupied with recording death, and lined up together they make a sort of protofilm — whereas the kilometers of selfies, taken and uploaded for communal access, look like the exact opposite to me: the chronicle of death as it walks amongst us, no longer of any interest to anyone. Stepanova inserts many letters verbatim between chapters — I particularly relished the ones written by her grandfather’s cousin, Lyodik, that he wrote home to his mother while a soldier during the Siege of Leningrad — and while these certainly have the feel of “truth” about their historical moments, Stepanova also shares that her father refused her permission to include his own letters (upbeat missives written home from his far-flung work assignments), arguing, “I can’t bear to think that someone will read those letters and think that’s what I am.” Knowing that Stepanova’s father (and before him, Lyodik) put a cheerful spin on grim circumstances when writing home, it really brings into question just what can be reconstructed about the past from letters, diaries, and other so-called primary sources. Do the artists and writers do a better job of preserving the truth of the moment? And what is to be made of our own time of oversharing and manipulating every image of ourselves? Where can truth be found? History and historiography, the personal and the philosophically universal; there’s much in here to learn and think on.

Whatever this strange and captivating book is, it’s not fiction and I’m bugged that it was marketed as such. It’s definitely a genre-bender but it’s also clearly memoir, so I would love to hear the reasoning behind automatically classifying it as fiction. That gripe aside, I almost didn’t pick up my library hold of this and I’m so glad I did. I read some really mixed reviews and because I really struggle with reading fiction nowadays (but I’d like to try to again) I was hesitating because of how fiction-y it might be. It’s a dreamy blend of memoir from an unnamed narrator, aside from that she’s a Stepanov, and literary analysis, close looks at specific bits of Russian history, biography of several of her family members and biographical moments from the lives of some famous Russian poets, among other figures like artists, filmmakers, and researchers, and meditations on what memory is and how it fails us and fails history. It meanders a lot but still feels very organized and focused, somehow. It is really an accomplishment. It’s both photo album turned into words crossed with diaries, letters, laid alongside false memories and stories told through the ages, brought back into the present with references to how Facebook and Instagram change the collection and cataloguing of memories. There’s a lot going on and I loved most of it. I noted so many beautiful lines and I’m eventually going to just buy a copy because I want to highlight whole paragraphs. It’s weird and even sometimes confusing but it’s worthwhile. If you like family histories, Russian poets (some of my favorites, Marina Tsvetaeva and Osip Mandelstam are the big ones here), playing with form and ideas around memory, its preservation and disappointments and wonders in equal measure.

There is something hypnotically contemporary about In Memory of Memory which is hard to pin down. And in that regard it is the most unexpected of page turners, the urgency it imposes on its readers not being fueled by plot – which you could argue, it has none— but by a sense of impending revelation. Stepanova writes about herself, about her family history, about History, about selfies and our relationships to them, about literature and cultural artifacts, and by doing that, she seems to be deciphering the code of what it means to be alive today; uncovering clues of our cultural landscape and the internal narrative that shapes our notion of self. Chapter one opens with the death of Aunt Galya, a woman who “lived her life in the pursuit of beauty: this dream of rearranging her possessions into a definitive order (…)” As we progress through the pages, the book unfolds in a succession of family photos and letters interspersed with visits to abandoned houses, god-forsaken towns, deserted cemeteries and museums, following the narrator’s search for more data to write a book reconstructing her family history. We witness her efforts to classify and describe these materials like a 19th century anthropologist while in parallel, we get to watch her own incredibly lucid and desperate attempts to make sense of her quest. The lines between fiction and memoir are ostentatiously blurred, a radical gesture that is almost histrionic in its resolve. This could lead us to place the book safely within the category of auto-fiction. But she pushes it further. As she picks up each of the objects she has surrounded herself with and scrutinizes them, she is also reflecting on the inner workings of narrative, the underlying principles of what makes us assign (create?) meaning and how we are shaped by this inevitable exercise. It is in this sense that the text could be perceived as transcending the recently ubiquitous category of auto-fiction and sliding into the far more disquieting one of meta-fiction, in all its problematic extent: not just as a text that refers to itself but as a narrative that is reflecting on the very mechanisms of narrative. What is the “hook” then, in this seemingly diffuse story without a plot and a tendency to stray into theoretical speculation? What gives it such a commanding voice and its undeniable gripping quality? Never in the history of mankind have we produced more information about ourselves in the form of images, text and even quantitative data by the mere fact of interacting with the world today. This unstoppable and unprecedented dispersion of "biographic" information yields a broken mirror reflection of ourselves. Perhaps it is the very impulse to collect mementos, to organize them into a coherent body of knowledge, to explain them and make them tangible, what feels so deeply contemporary. With this profusion of self-referential materials comes the need to assemble them in a way that makes sense, a sense that we can live with, an “illusion of possession”. Could it be that this profoundly current and unavoidable experience of fragmentation and post-modern angst is what makes Stepanova’s drive obscurely relatable? Are we all unsuspectingly being haunted by these multiplying images of ourselves that silently but furiously demand meaning? These ideas are not new. The list of cultural references that aptly inform Stepanova’s text include Walter Benjamin, Borges, Roland Barthes and Michel Foucault to name a few. However, she manages to take these concepts and imbue them with a renewed sense of relevancy and gravity: Aunt Galya’s pursuit of a “definitive order” becomes a potential interpretative framework for experience in our contemporaneity. (ARC kindly facilitated by the publisher in exchange of an honest review)

On one day, I wrote in my notes that In Memory of Memory is intense. The next day, I wrote that it was dense. There is so much packed into this book, which utilizes philosophy instead of narrative. Stepanova references Nabokov, Benjamin, Sebald, Mandelstam, Pamuk and others. Have you read them all? The book is about memory, our relationship with the past and its accoutrements. The book is subtitled: “A Romance.”

At this point in time, I frequently write book reviews that are short, glib, and irreverent. Back when I read this particular book, I frequently attempted to hide my lack of scholarship with verbiage. More specifically, when I finished reading this particular book, I was overwhelmed with emotion, but I was uncertain how to express it in words, so I didn't write a review. I also didn't write a review because I didn't yet have the courage, wisdom, and confidence to acknowledge my great respect for all indigenous people. Additionally, as a child of colonialism, I was and remain uncertain how to express my detestation for imperialism, colonialism, and neocolonialism. I hate these things and also despise political and religious justifications for them. I long for a world where all people can live in harmony, yet this seems impossible in a world controlled by the likes of Trump and Putin. And how does one resolve the apparent conflict between love and respect for Jewish people combined with sympathy and high regard for Palestinians. All this was true before I read this book, after I read it, and it remains true today. Some day, I will come back and reread this book, and then perhaps I will be able to express myself with clarity. At the moment, clarity is beyond my reach, so I won't comment on the difficult issues raised by this book until I am able to sort these issues out in my own head. Until then, I will be reading books that are new to me and listening to music that is old.

Apeirogon: a shape with a countably Infinite Number of sides. Divide two deaths you get life This is a dense and heavy hearted story - based on truths some Imagination and historical history of 2 men who have found each other and a lifetime friendship despite one being Israeli and one being Palestinian. They have been brought together because of the common bond they share: the death of a child. This is an enlightening piece of living in a place that is occupied; and one that occupies it. Of guns. Of death. Of hope for peace. This story brings humanity to this part of the world that doesn’t have the luxuries we have in the western world. The writing - amazing. McCann weaves in the most remote and obscure time pieces from music and history and magically aligns them like a beautiful tapestry. But alas, the last 150 pages were a struggle for me to get through. Smadar and Abir. May you never be forgotten. 4⭐️

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2020. You ever pick up a book and feel as though you've just stumbled upon a documentary, and from that point on you are merely a spectator, waiting for the stories to unfold, knowing that something horrible lurks in every corner? And there are survivors, of course. They're the ones telling the story and will leave you with a message of hope. But sometimes, nothing can undo the knots in your chest. Apeirogon is a story of two fathers - Rami Elhanan and Bassam Aramin. Rami, an Israeli lost his daughter Smadar, to a suicide bombing attack. She was fourteen years old. The suicide bomber was Palestinian. How could such a thing take place? What could cause someone to be that angry, that mad, that desperate, that hopeless, that stupid, that pathetic, that he is willing to blow himself up alongside a girl, not even fourteen years old? How can you possibly understand that instinct? To tear his own body apart? To walk down a busy street and pull the cord on a belt that rips him asunder? How can he think that way? What made him? Where in the world was he created? How did he get that way? Where did he come from? Who taught him this? Did I teach him this? Did his government teach him this? Did my government Bassam's daughter, Abir, was killed by a rubber bullet that crushed the back of her skull. She was ten. The bullet was shot by an Israeli soldier. The bullet that killed Abir traveled fifteen meters through the air before it smashed into the back of her head, crushing the bones in her skull like those of a tiny ortolan. She had gone to the grocery store to buy candy. Rami and Bassam now tour the world together, deliver speeches, talk about their daughters and rally for a non-violent peace agreement between Israel and Palestine. When I was younger, I used to joke with my mother that I was not asked to sign any consent form before my birth, I did not choose this land and therefore will not harbor any unrequited love for it. I realize now that my joke is ignorant at best and harmful at worst. I have not lived as a refugee in my own country. At some point in history the scales were tipped. Purely geographic quantities were ascribed anthropomorphic traits and often it came at the cost of alienlization and dehumanization of the inhabitants. When the fight for your land forces you to turn a blind eye to the suffering of your own people, the battle is already lost. There is no defense of land anymore. There is us, there is mass suffering, heinous injustice, painful deaths and there is the cause in between - suspended on delicate threads of state sponsored violence and an unquenchable thirst for vengeance. Some people though, transcend over the ordinary, challenge the system - which has turned into a perpetual motion machine of pain and violence, and take their grief and anger and channel it into ideologies that can bring about progressive change - a change that will recognize every victim as human. And this is the center around the which Apeirogon shapes itself. Some people have an interest in keeping the silence. Others have an interest in sowing hatred based on fear. Fear makes money, and it makes laws, and it takes land, and it builds settlements, and fear likes to keep everyone silent.

The cover of Apeirogon actually names the book ‘Apeirogon, a Novel’ in the French style. In Colum McCann’s Letters to a Young Writer: Some Practical and Philosophical Advice he comments on “Plot”: Plot matters, but plot is juvenile: it is subservient to character and language. Writing teachers make a mistake by concentrating too much on plot. It is not the be-all and end-all in a piece of literature. Plot takes the backseat in a good story because what happens is never as interesting as how it happens. And how it happens occurs in the way language captures it. The one thing we cannot do in “real” life is stop time. But we can do it in literature. Anyone can tell a big story, but not everyone can tell a small story. Maybe in this day and age we are diseased by plot. Let’s face it, plots are good for movies, but when over-considered they tend to make books creak. In the world of film we need motivation leading to action. But in literature we need contradiction leading to action, yes, but also leading to inaction. The greatest novel ever written has very little apparent plot. A cuckold walks around Dublin for twenty-four hours. No shootouts, no crashes. Instead it is a vast compendium of human experience. Still, this doesn’t take away from the fact that every story ever told has some sort of plot (and maybe especially Ulysses). What plot must do is twist our hearts in some way. We must care about the music of what happens. One thing leads to the next. And the issues of the human heart unfold in front of us. This discussion resurfaced in an interview about Apeirogon in the Times. McCann himself, in the described the plot of the novel in a way that makes a link to his Ulysses comment above: A man gets up in the morning, he drives to a monastery, he tells a story. The man tells the story with another man, and that man drives home at night — and it all takes place in 24 hours. And nothing takes place, but then everything takes place at the same time, too. And the interviewer raised the plot point: McCann does not follow the rules. He has said plot is juvenile, and he’s not too keen on character. Everything, he says, is subservient to language and, in turn, the language must become music. “As I was writing it, I began to feel that I was writing music. And I know little about music. I feel music. And I wish I could have music in my life. I’m the sort of person who goes to parties and I do sing, but I can’t.” It is, though, significant that two of the main musicians referenced in Apeirogon are John Cage and Philip Glass. McCann links mathematics (another key thread of the novel) to music and poetry via a line from GH Hardy’s wonderful if rather dated A Mathematician's Apology. The mathematician’s patterns, like the painter’s or the poet’s must be beautiful; the ideas like the colours or the words, must fit together in a harmonious way. Beauty is the first test: there is no permanent place in the world for ugly mathematics. However, the wider paragraphs from GH Hardy give this rather more context – he’s wasn’t so much saying mathematician’s should aspire to musical or poetic beauty, but rather than their art was on a higher aesthetic plane, that of ideas (rather dismissing Shakespeare’s insights into Richard III into the bargain), with Hardy’s rather typical hyberbole and self-confidence in mathematics as the superior form: A mathematician, like a painter or a poet, is a maker of patterns. If his patterns are more permanent than theirs it is because they are made with ideas. A painter makes patterns with shapes and colours, a poet with words. A painting may embody an ‘idea’, but the idea is usually commonplace and unimportant. In poetry, ideas count for a good deal more; but, as Housman insisted, the importance of ideas in poetry is habitually exaggerated: ‘I cannot satisfy myself that there are any such things as poetical ideas… Poetry is not the thing said but a way of saying it.’ Not all the water in the rough rude sea Can wash the balm from an anointed king Could the line be better, and could ideas be at once more trite and more false? The poverty of the ideas seems hardly to affect the beauty of the verbal pattern. A mathematician, on the other hand, has no material to work with but ideas, and so his patterns are likely to last longer, since ideas waste less time than words. The mathematician’s patterns, like the painter’s or the poet’s must be beautiful; the ideas like the colours or the words, must fit together in a harmonious way. Beauty is the first test: there is no permanent place in the world for ugly mathematics. And here I must deal with a misconception which is still widespread (though probably much less so now than it was twenty years ago), what Whitehead has called the ‘literary superstition’ that love of an aesthetic appreciation of mathematics is ‘a monomania confined to a few eccentrics in each generation’. It would be quite difficult now to find an educated man quite insensitive to the aesthetic appeal of mathematics. It may be very hard to define mathematical beauty, but that is just as true of beauty of any kind—we may not know quite what we mean by a beautiful poem, but that does not prevent us from recognizing one when we read it. Even Professor Hogben, who is out to minimize at all costs the importance of the aesthetic element in mathematics, does not venture to deny its reality. ‘There are, to be sure, individuals for whom mathematics exercises a coldly impersonal attraction.… The aesthetic appeal of mathematics may be very real for a chosen few.’ But they are ‘few’, he suggests, and they feel ‘coldly’ (and are really rather ridiculous people, who live in silly little university towns sheltered from the fresh breezes of the 15 wide open spaces). In this he is merely echoing Whitehead’s ‘literary superstition’. Here McCann has attempted to fuse the forms – a pattern of ideas that has perhaps the deliberate construction of mathematics (the ideas in Apeirogon don’t flow as naturally as say in the best novels by say Sebald, Drndić or Tokarczuk) but still written in poetic (or literary) form. What he’s doing is perhaps best explained by another quote from the Letters (although if I had a small criticism it would be that the facts-singing balance doesn't quite reach McCann's own requirements): At certain points in history it is only the poetic that is capable of dealing with brute reality. The writer arrives at the conjunction of these two forces — reality and fiction — and makes a decision about how to proceed. There she stands, on the edge of two tectonic plates. What she has to do, then, is let the facts go. Let the figures go. Let the simplicities disappear. Let the soundbites drown. She descends into language instead. Bravely and elegantly. Into the abyss. The poetic gives shape to the brutality, but it also gives meaning and credence to its destruction. Only that language which is capable of reaching the poetic will be able to stand in opposition to that which is wrong. Nothing short of your best will do. Make it sing. McCann also argued in his Letters that: There are no Olympics in literature. No gold medal, no silver, no bronze, even if the award ceremonies suggest that it is so. A valid comment – and his particular point was that authors don’t write in direct competition with others – but nevertheless this is a novel that deserves to win accolades. 4.5 stars

Apeirogon is not an easy book to read, and not just because its narrative is fractured, broken up into 1000 (mostly tiny) pieces which lead from one to the other sometimes on only the basis of one word, sometimes for a reason I couldn't fathom. At its heart is the story of two real men - Rami Elhanan, an Israeli and Bassam Aramin, a Palestinian. Both of them lost their daughters - Smadar, killed by suicide bombers and Abir who was shot after leaving a sweet shop, but they join together with others to talk about how the two sides should work together for peace. But interspersed with this narrative are paragraphs about birds, about sling-shots, about exploration, history, ammunition making, traditions, art and music, and many other things. It worked when I let it lead me, let it flow over me, and not worry too much if I was not keeping up. The fractured nature adds to the idea of what I was reading, and although this quote from the book is in regards to a piece of music, it sums up the experience perfectly: "The effect is of a sort of serenity surrounded by the feeling of being constantly disturbed."

Gutted. Educated. Amazed. That’s how this book left me. Gutted by the hardship, loss, and conflict faced by the main characters. Educated by the continued Israeli and Palestinian conflict of which I was largely ignorant. Amazed by an author whose mind can weave together so many seemingly disparate facts. Up front, I should note that this novel does not follow a typical story arc. In fact, some might argue it is not a novel at all, but rather a compilation of interconnected facts about history. It’s not the type of book I would have guessed I’d enjoy. But, as one who appreciates beautiful language, history, and facts – and as one who is always asking questions – I found the connections from one section of the book to another fascinating (sometimes a ‘chapter’ was a sentence long). I was captivated by the way this author’s mind works and draws parallels, and the vast amount of knowledge he compiled to tell the history of two (actual) men and the history of a conflicted geographical region. For instance: a scene will go from questions of war and how to stop the inclination toward war to a conversation between Freud and Einstein. The next scene will reveal that Freud and Einstein published a paper when Hitler was in power, and the next scene will include a character talking about the Holocaust. All of these facts braid back to the conflict in Israel. This line in the book explains the story structure and serves to illuminate the book's theme: “He wanted to talk about the use of the past in the justification of the present. About the helix of history, one moment bound to the next. About where the past intersects with the future.” For anyone who has gaps about Middle Eastern politics and the social struggles in that region, this book fills in those gaps with two very human, heartbreaking stories (based on real-life). It is a moving book that may, perhaps, create empathy in the place of fear.

Rami and Bassam are real people and their stories are sadly true. One is a Muslim Palestinian and the other is a Jewish Israeli. Both lost their innocent young daughters suddenly in the violent place they live in. These events occurred almost exactly 10 years apart. Instead of perpetuating that violence, they have chosen to tell their children’s stories hundreds of time to audiences everywhere. Colum McCann has done some incredible research and shares not only the stories of Rami and Bassam, but many stories that help to give the reader multiple perspectives and insights. I have never understood war. I remember saying this to adults as a child and being told when I grow up I’ll understand that it’s necessary sometimes. I am 53 years old and I guess I’m not grown up yet because I still do not understand it. A never-ending war is even harder to comprehend. This is definitely not a light read but McCann’s non linear/short snippet chapters writing style helped me to stay with it. Happy New Year Peace on Earth

This was book, while briliantly done, was very hard to read. And equally hard to review. Apeirgon refers to a shape that has a infinite yet countable number of sides. Meaning you can look at a phenomenon from an infinite number of interconnected angles. Fragments that make a whole, and are interdependent on and with each of the other facets. Thats how the book is written. Its so original, and so compelling. It is a masterwork. But the content is hard and complicated. Its also too much affect at once to handle - at least it was for me. There is only so much I can digest, and this was simply too great to bear. The book is a hybrid of non-ficiton, based on actual events and people and their stories and interviews, its mostly non-fiction, but the author allows that there is a blend of storytelling, so its not straight non-fiction. Its hard because of just how real it is, that the beautifully written language even more poignantly pulls out the absolute horror. And yet, one reads on. The book does not have a clear ending point, and an apeirogon wouldn't. But that is also a reflection of the evolving situation and phenomena. There is no clear end there either. But what there is is a Bassam and a Rami, and an Amir and a Smador. And he shaping, slow shaping of violence towards what we hope is an eventual peace.

An Israel-Palestine story. Palestinian Bassam Aramin and Israeli Rami Elhanan are real people. They each lost a young daughter. Rami's 13-yr-old daughter Smadar was killed in a suicide bombing on Ben Yehuda street in Jerusalem in 1997. Bassam's 9-yr-old daughter Abir was killed by a rubber bullet walking out of a candy shop in 2007. She was shot in the back of the head by an 18-yr-old Israeli soldier. Bassam also spent 7 years in an Israeli prison, arrested at age 17 for throwing a grenade he and his friends had found (seems it didn't explode). His years of prison involved constant beatings and several hunger strikes and one close friendship with an Israeli guard that he maintains today. Bassam and Rami met at a Combatants for Peace meeting and developed a friendship through that organization. Their friendship became tragically closer after Abir was killed. The nonfictional aspect to this book is tragic, powerful, sad, and beautiful. It's an important story. But I'm not sure McCann had much to add to that story. He tries to make this more interesting, breaking his story into 1001 parts and otherwise tying into 1001 Nights, bringing curious historical and natural details, spending time on the birds that pass through this area, connecting and comparing this Israeli-Palestinian conflict with that in Northern Ireland, and doing as much as he can to bring these and other related characters alive. He does it all with a straight simple language, facts only please, which might be a little odd since McCann is somewhat known for his poetic prose. This telling creates a distance between reader and story, and that is a little unusual for such an emotional story. It's readable. I liked it. I'm glad I read it. But I also thought the single tone really limited this from a literary standpoint. It's the kind of good book that I would not really recommended, but would want not discourage you either. ----------------------------------------------- 53. Apeirogon by Colum McCann reader: the author published: 2020 format: 15:20 audible audiobook (463-pages in hardcover) acquired: Oct 8 listened: Oct 9-29 rating: 4 locations: Palestine, Israel about the author: born in Dublin in 1965, lives in New York City

This is a tremendous work of art, an original feat of storytelling, a tome to admire, a humbling reading experience. Colum McCann has created something new by recreating lots of old things. This is a novel in name only (in fact, the addition of A Novel to the title is in itself tongue in cheek.) It is novel, history, politics, reportage, short story, nature writing, memoir, biography and more. It is glorious. And yet it is flawed. It's too long by 1/3 at least. The story, in some ways, is simple. It is the history of two men - both real living people - one a Palestinian, the other an Israeli, who have lost daughters to the ongoing conflict. Both have fought for their countries. Both are now leading members of a group seeking to bring peace to the region by talking, not with M16s. That is basically it. But that also only scratches the surface. McCann reinvents this narrative over and over again, unlocking new doors that lead to new stories, histories, anecdotes, snippets of history. Always building, always layering these men's back-stories and those of the region, the conflict, the occupation, the darn migrating birds. The effect is quite stunning. You wonder where it's going for a few pages and then suddenly, Wow! it all slides into place. Then before you know it, you've moved on, seamlessly, to new topics, new characters, new stories. And yet always the same. But really there's a bit too much of it. I think he could have slimmed it down by a couple hundred pages and it would be more accessible and even more enjoyable. It's hard to sustain a book of 450 pages that has little in the way of suspense or urgency. But hey, I'm nitpicking. It's a very fine novel.

i was very kindly sent this book, and also a very cute green hat that says CREATION LAKE on it. so the whole time i read this was a high-stakes situation of really hoping i'd like the book so i could wear the hat. my life is so hard. fortunately, it's good news. nothing much of anything happened in this book, which is a compliment. i plodded through it and felt immersed in a world of surveillance and clumsy dual motivations, unglamorous rural life and glamorous-on-paper jobs. this is the kind of book that is full of things you google instead of action, which is my preference. bottom line: my first rachel kushner but it won't be my last! (thanks to the publisher for the copy)

“These people were always repeating a maxim about the end of the world, that it was ‘easier to imagine the end of the world than it was to imagine the end of capitalism.’ ….In terms of which of these two will end first, capitalism might be more insidious and durable than the blue-green miracle of planet earth and its swaddling of life-giving ether. Bruno had declared in his letters that capitalism wasn't coming to an end. The only option was to leave the world….He meant leave our world on it, cast off an entire manner of inhabiting reality.” The narrator, assuming the alias “Sadie Smith”, was hired by unknown business interests to infiltrate a rural commune in France. Standing in opposition to governmental farming polices and agribusiness influences, the commune’s activism was seen as a threat to financial interests in the region. Sadie’s orders were to collect information on the members of the group and to note all references to their past civil actions and to any future ones. Working as the commune’s translator, Sadie observes the difference in status between the members based on sex and class. “After Florence delivered the coffee tray, the cups were passed around as if this coffee had miraculously appeared, or as if we were well aware that “unwaged labor" had produced it (meaning someone completed a task without being paid to do so). We accepted as a given that someone had to make coffee and wash cups and that…the old division of labor between men and women reasserts itself….That the labor of thinking, reading, and writing fell to men was not discussed in the library.” Sadie follows Pascal Balmy, the leader of the commune, to exclusive venues as he interacts with the rich and famous from across the political spectrum. Sadie notes the hypocrisy, the men’s words verses their actions, but she does not judge them, either not caring or assuming that this was the status quo. “The men in this bar were exercising their social connections to the judges and ministers who also came here, to advance their economic interests. And no doubt these men advanced their interests in other ways too. By hiring consultants and spies. By keeping close track of those who threatened their interests, like the contacts who had hired me….My thought was that any of them could have been behind this job, could have been my true and actual boss.” Reading the correspondences to the group, Sadie comes across the emails of Bruno Lacombe, an adviser to the young activists. Lacombe counsels the members against violence. Bruno writes, “But intimations I get…things I hear on cave frequency suggest to me that there is something up ahead, a plan in the offing, over which you and I are not united. If this plan risks the safety, the lives, of people- no matter who they are- you will be making a mistake. A wrong turn. I want to make myself clear to you, that I deplore violence in all of its forms.” Lacombe instead advises the activists to seek change from within, the only change possible. “Whether in a rural outpost or an urban core, trying to dismantle capitalism from within capitalism is a dead end….the commitment to waiting is bound up with a refusal to acknowledge that what you wait for is not coming….You fight for a lost status quo, he said, and your victory is what? A slightly more functional capitalist relation….Plumbing the depths inside yourself is not easy work. It is difficult work. But I am convinced, he said, that the way to break free of what we are is to find out who we might have been, and to try to restore some kernel of our lost essence.” With a protest planned by the commune in the offing, Sadie’s employer informs her that the moment was right to incite an act of violence, encouraging a crack down by the local police. Sadie’s pessimistic outlook on life pales in comparison to the truly cynical men she interacts with, espousing one thing and doing the opposite purely for power. They are seen in the same rooms making deals with members of the opposing political party. A novel about late stage capitalism. And like the lice in the novel, the ones that Lacombe finds in the WW2 soldier’s helmet, capitalism eats you up, throws you out and goes on to the next guy. "’What's his secret?’ I asked. ‘Money,’ Vito said. ‘His money is no secret,’ Serge said…. ‘The Hotel Meurice is like a theater stage,’ Vito said, ‘where we watch the important men of France order a very expensive hamburger.’”

This was terrifying I'm so glad French people aren't real 😌

4,5 This was my first Rachel Kushner and I liked it very much. I'd put her in that category of super smart authors, like Rebecca Makkai and Eleanor Catton, who have interesting things to say but are also happy to take on the challenge of presenting it in the form of a thrilling narrative. In 'Creation Lake', Sadie is a spy working for mysterious private sector clients who instruct her to infiltrate (left wing) protest organisations and convince them to radicalize and become violent (in order for the police to step in and round up the gang...). Sadie is not only brilliant, but also completely amoral and has no problem befriending and then framing well-meaning people. But as the novel proceeds perhaps she is not as much in control as she thinks. This is not really a spy novel though, or at least not only. A lot of the fun is in the original French countryside setting and the teachings of old 1968 idealists, especially Bruno who writes fascinating emails on Neanderthals and prehistoric life. 'James' is still my favourite on the Booker shortlist, but this is a close second.

Rachel Kushner has taken an overworked genre – the spy novel – and created a literary, thought provoking work. The main character, “Sadie” is an undercover agent. She worked for the US government, but after a mishap, her “employers” are now private people with their own agendas. Sadie has been sent to rural France to infiltrate a communal group of agricultural activists. The reader watches as Sadie enters the group (first by having a “relationship” with the best friend of the group leader) and then cunningly (and ruthlessly) expands her position. Sadie is well trained, but, as in all good novels about an undercover agent, the risk of detection is always looming. Many of the activists are developed characters. We see the ups and downs (mostly downs) of communal life as well as the effect of the members’ different economic backgrounds on their approaches to achieving their goals. However, the undercover agent aspect of Creation Lake is only one part of the novel. Threaded throughout the story line is correspondence from an “old time” activist who has exited the active world and turned to delving into the existence and development of Neanderthals and early humans. This aspect of the novel was unique in its substance and extremely well written. Rachel Kushner’s ability to give early humans great relevance in a story about an undercover agent in current times was outstanding. I also applaud the complexity of the character of Sadie. She is smart, practical and extremely witty – but that doesn’t keep her from being very human or making mistakes. Throughout most of the novel, Sadie’s moral compass is focused only on getting her job done. In addition, her observances bring a great deal of humor to the novel. I did not think there could be such a thing as a truly literary spy novel – but Rachel Kushner has written it!

Sadie Smith, surely not her real name, used to work for the government as a spy before that same government threw her under the bus when a bust went bad. Now she works freelance and is working undercover infiltrating a commune of radical farmers who may be planning violence and terrorism in rural France. While the narrator’s true name remains anonymous, so does the identity of who she is working for and what their nefarious goal is. It seems that they are prepared to go to extreme lengths to shut this commune down. The leader of this commune, Pascal, has visions of becoming the next Guy Debord. His mentor, Bruno, is a great character who we never meet. He is developed through a series of emails that Sadie reads. These emails form a huge chunk of the novel and for me form an integral part of the book. They are the only access we have to Bruno and his thoughts and ideology. However, I can see some readers being put off by the interminable references to neanderthals and evolution. For me this novel rests on Sadie’s shoulders. Sadie is a character without scruples. Completely amoral. A tough character full of “salt”. She only cares about herself and her paycheck and is prepared to do anything to survive and because of this she is such a great character to read. I believe that Kushner could have dropped Sadie into any number of narratives and the book would still be a great read. Flip the coin however and if you have a problem with Sadie then you more than likely will have a problem with the book. Kushner has a great, at times dark, sense of humour and she uses it frequently. “I pictured viragos fighting over Michel Thomas, never mind that he had the sexual energy of a grandmother with bone density issues”. I was not a fan of “The Mars Room” and I have “The Flamethrowers” still sitting on the shelf but I thought this was a great read with a great protagonist.

Prescribed by my husband to help get me out of a mini reading slump, and it worked. This “ecoterrorism spy novel” about an American woman hired to infiltrate and sabotage environmental movements is hardly a spy novel in the sense of plot-driven page-turner. It’s slow, and meandering, with fascinating diversions into Neanderthals (I’ve never thought about them in the way this book encourages us to, and my life is so much richer for this new perspective), class warfare in medieval France, cave-dwelling, and utopian ideals of retreating from the world because capitalism can’t be beaten. As a card carrying Donna Tart fan, I love a meandering aside, if it’s well written and interesting - and Creation Lake definitely ticks those boxes. It’s superbly written. The protagonist is unlikeable but compelling. It’s given me a lot to think about - which is obviously mostly good, even if one of the things I now think about is the possibility that our capitalist overlords pay people to befriend and destabilise progressive movements from within.

Rachel Kushner’s novels like to examine on a person in a difficult situation. In The Flamethrowers it was a young woman in an all male motorcycle gang. In the Mars Room it was a woman prisoner who had to adapt to her environment while equally more dangerous people than her roamed free. Rachel Kushner’s latest novel, Creation Lake continues with this theme but manages to give it her unique touch. The central character is Sadie, a spy whose mission is to infiltrate a cult of eco-terrorists located in France, who receive directions from Bruno. To complicate things more Bruno is a kind of Yuval Noah Harari like character who believes that primitivism is the only way society will progress. The rest of the book does go into espionage tropes, double names, other secret agents, targeting ministers, using people to get information but it’s not only an action packed stuff. We see Sadie’s reactions to how greedy people are when it comes to landownership. Also, unlike Bond, Sadie has to suffer from unwanted sexual advances just to get the information she needs. She is a keen observer of humanity and it’s foibles. Like every Kushner novel this element plays a big part with the plot. I did enjoy reading Creation Lake, it’s many layers are told succinctly and did provide a lot of thought provoking moments. Don’t be fooled though. There’s a sharp sense of humour here and it helps add a joyous sense of abandon to Creation Lake.

Maps is a barn burner of a debut by the talented Maddie Mortimer. On one level, it is about a family coming to terms with a cancer diagnosis, but it’s also an exploration of language and narrative and the use of new forms to tell a story. Most notable is Mortimer’s innovative use of performative typography. The words dance and weave, sometimes in shapes and other times with no apparent direction at all. For me, this was very effective and helped propel me through the more touchy feely parts of the story. Overall a very impressive debut.

Winner of the Desmond Elliott Prize 2022, longlisted for the Booker Prize and shortlisted for the Goldsmiths Prize German: Atlas unserer spektakulären Körper Maddie Mortimer's ambitious debut novel tells the story of Lia, who is diagnosed with cancer for a second time - this time she is going to die, leaving behind her husband and young daughter. The author, whose own mother died of breast cancer when she was 14, sensitively shows how family members experience the road to death - but what renders the text so striking is that the aesthetic implementation is particularly innovative. Mortimer experiments with questions of body perception and how they can be translated into literature. While the family story is told in the third person, a first-person voice guides the reader through the inside of Lia's body. Regarding this flee-floating "I", Mortimer explained to me: "I’ve never named it as the cancer. It’s this kind of a destructive core that moves through Lias body. It shapeshifts, and it plays multiple tricks on the reader. It started off as a kind of guide through the body, as this kind of the worst of Lia, that slowly consumes the text. And it suddenly became obvious that the book was one about perspective, the way that the first and the third person are in communication throughout." The two narrative threads are fighting each other, they represent the body and mind of the patient, explains Mortimer. The voice from inside the body is often reminiscent of horror films in which an alien force takes over the human body from the inside - in the book, the voice becomes more and more dominant until Lia is no more. The struggle for narrative sovereignty and the extreme emotional experiences are also reflected in experimental typography on the book pages - Lia works as an illustrator. And there is a third strand of the story: In flashbacks, we learn that since childhood, Lia, the daughter of a pastor, has been plagued by the feeling that God is absent. Mortimer: "I was kind of fascinated with this idea of this like young girl waiting around for God. This idea that God to her is defined by His absence, the same way that Matthew, the boy who arrives at this vicarage and ends up becoming the great love of her life, he throughout her life is more absent than present. And so her relationship with God an her relationship with Matthew are kind of intrinsic, I see him as God anthropomorphized almost." As Lia faces death, she is heavy with regret and guilt, and she also thinks of Matthew, the man she did not marry. Nevertheless, she finds solace in her loving relationship with her daughter. For Mortimer, her debut novel is also an elegy for her dead mother, to whom she was very close. As a writer, she had processed her cancer in columns. And she left the family diaries, the contents of which led Mortimer to the central theme of her novel: "This idea that she brought the cancer on herself, that there was some kind of autonomy that she had. That struck me as really sad, that these are the things that are going through your mind as your near death, that you could have done more, and that is kind of the central journey for Lia. She is finding some way to forgiving the mistakes that she made, and the fact that she is leaving her daughter behind, and the fact that she is dying. And the overarching message of the book is forgiveness." Mortimer refuses to be classified in a specific genre, she changes tonality and register, jumps between references from pop and high culture. The text is as eclectic as the characters it draws. Even if the sometimes meandering book demands a lot from its readers, one can only congratulate Mortimer on her courage and determination: Here is a young, ambitious writer who dares to experiment, and whose joy in unconventional, challenging narration is noticeable on every page. You can listen to my interview with Maddie (in English), my radio piece (in German) here, and the podcast discussion (also in German) here.

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐ ½ Genre: Literary Fiction In Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies by Maddie Mortimer, a mother named Lia is fighting a life-threatening disease. The narrative alternates between flashbacks of Lia's past and her present. Then there is the voice of her terminal condition (cancer)! This kind of narration, which I had never come across before, made it a fresh experience for me. Through the main character’s narration, the reader will know the kind of relationship she has with her husband and daughter. During Lia’s cancer progress, we get to know about her past relationships, whether it is her relationship with her parents or her first love. The fascinating thing here is that we don’t get all that from Lia herself, but from the voice of her cancer! This was truly fascinating and terrifying at the same time. The illness’ narration gives lots of details of the destruction it causes inside Lia’s body. The writing in this book is breathtaking. The prose is superb, with a very authentic narration. This book is lyrical from start to finish. Keep in mind that all this is wrapping up a serious, unfortunate subject, something that might be a trigger warning for many. This makes it not an easy subject to read and not tolerable for everybody. If you can handle it, I cannot recommend it enough.

An unusual memoir in which Gabriela Wiener combines research about her great-grandfather's life and work with reflections on her own life and work. Wiener's great-grandfather Charles was na Austrian Jew who is known for his Latin American expeditions in the 19th century, shipping loads of Pre-Columbian artifacts from Peru and Bolivia back to France. He almost discovered Machu Pichu too. But he also left behind an illegitimate son, who became Gabriela's grandfather, seemingly without caring for the mother. Gabriela herself lives in Spain and is known for her polyamorous relationship with her girlfriend and husband - a topic she has written about before in other auto-fictional works (her oeuvre apparently like that of Annie Ernaux), but which I had not read before picking up 'Undiscovered.' This was somewhat unfortunate as the parts about struggling with polyamory (she cheats repeatedly on both partners) I had difficulty to the reasons and motivations. Although clearly the recent death of her father affects her deeply. The book is at its strongest when it compares blatant 19th century racism with much more subtle but equally present 21st century racism. Where her white great-grandfather Charles was the perpetrator of the former, Gabriela - with her Peruvian looks - suffers the latter living in Madrid. Interesting and well-written, but I wished I had started with her earlier works and read chronologically.

Longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2024 Political themes and cultural cross-references abound in the Latin American entries that dominate this year's International Booker list. Calderón writes about life under the authoritarian regime of Nicolás Maduro (who is still in power - watch out for the Presidential elections in Venezuela on July 28th!). Protagonist Ulises Kan's wife leaves him and flees the country, his beloved father-in-law Martín dies and tasks him in his will to turn his estate into a dog shelter and vet clinic to harbor the dogs left behind by fleeing elites. A rather complicated cat-and-mouse game ensues, featuring the ex-wife and her twin brother, Ulise's former lover, the people who help him set up the shelter, the police, etc. pp. But what renders this short novel so intriguing is the even more complicated net of meta-textual references, mainly to Greek mythology (The Odyssey, Medea, the Argonauts), literature (starring Elizabeth von Arnim), modern movies, mainly "The Godfather", and actors like Alain Delon and Claudia Cardinale. And of course: Dogs, dogs, dogs. These references cannot easily be interpreted as one thing, they hover over the scenery and play hide and seek. This is great fun for people who enjoy wicked puzzles, and pure hell for those who long for a straightfoward story arc. Admittedly, the sex scenes are also ... well, Garth Greenwell this is not. Still, I'm always here for unhinged, labyrinthic takes on political issues, so overall, I was intrigued. You can listen to our discussion on the podcast (International Booker, Latinx edition) here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

Now that I am five books in the International Booker themes are starting to emerge, one is how a country’s history is integrated into one’s own personal history, the other consists of autofictional accounts about intense family relationships. Simpatía is part of the former category. The plot is simple and yet as the book progresses it develops and unfolds: A divorced movie fan, Ulises, is left a will which states that he has to turn his father inlaw’s mansion into a dog shelter within a stipulated date. If he doesn’t then everything, including the flat he lives in, goes to the ex wife. Like Homer’s Ulysses , this one is also on a quest. It’s no coincidence that the mansion is called Los Argonautas and on his quest he encounters dogs and people which share the names of the characters in Homer’s work (I’ll let the reader guess that). To complicate matters, the Father inlaw was a general in the army and his connections protect Ulises against the bureaucratic problems he encounters on his quest. The current situation: a Venezuela plagued by poverty cause by the Madura government, which is resulting in all these stray dogs, is not helping. More to unfold: Suddenly Ulises old lover comes back and together they solve another complex problem involving Bolívar’s dog and the author Elizabeth von Armin, who also wrote a book about dogs. Without spoiling the book, I will say that within this premise, things are not what they seem. Simpatía has a myriad of meanings in Spanish, most which deal with relationships, and although this book is a political allegory, if I am correct the dogs represent the oppressed population while the ex wife represents the ruthlessness of upper classes, relationships play a huge part. It’s a quirky novel and always interesting. Unfortunately my knowledge of Chavez and Madura is shaky but I managed to appreciate the book and (hopefully) see the message that is conveyed.

I really liked this and is high on my International Booker list in terms of enjoyment. It's about a guy whose wife leaves him but he is really close to his father-in-law, and when the father-in-law dies he leaves instructions for the guy to turn his apartment into a shelter for abandoned dogs. It was great how it was light-hearted but there were also some really shocking and sad moments. Obviously with it being about abandoned dogs it tugs on the heartstrings a little bit but it really explores a wide range of emotions and feelings. I felt kind of sad for the main guy when things just weren't going his way and about halfway through noticed how attached I was getting to the story. Would recommend this one - there is something in it that everyone will be able to enjoy, and you also get the opportunity to find out about some Venezuelan history too.

I thought this was a multi-layered, complicated little puzzle of a book that never really fully took off but I still enjoyed reading a lot. I loved all of the components and I enjoyed trying to fit them all together but the part that was mostly missing was the dogs. It’s maybe on my part that I went in thinking this was going to be like Sigrid Nunez’s The Friend (and it sort of is towards the end) but this is actually very much a book about humans. Humans being complicated and troubled. I just felt the book was at its best in the sections that showed how dogs can bring out the better side in humans and I wanted more of that.

4 stars - a fast, suspenseful read! I definitely want to research the history of Venezuela to understand more context but you don’t need it necessarily. Ultimately, it’s the story about political upheaval, desperation in those circumstances, and unconditional love (drawing parallels to the relationship with dogs). I enjoyed the read, and there is plenty to discuss, but I am not sure it’s a book that will stay with me for very long. Now I’m wondering if the rating should be 3.5 stars…..

As Maduro’s Venezuela experiences a mass exodus of its intellectual class, Ulises Kan unexpectedly finds himself the beneficiary of a will with certain conditions: he must successfully transform a grand family home into a shelter for dogs in order to inherit a luxurious apartment… The synopsis might sound a bit bizarre, but it is a rather tricky story to sum up (and review!) without spoilers. It’s a wild ride and probably a bit of a marmite book as a result - I think the best approach is to just willingly lean into the absurdity, as I did. So much happens, particularly in the second half, that I was left reeling, yet I really did enjoy it. Sure, some of what occurs is ridiculous and some of the characters are crackpots, but I didn’t mind because nothing unfolded as I expected and that was actually kind of fun. There’s an underlying ominous feel as Venezuela’s post-Chávez economic and social crises deepen in the background, affecting daily life in various ways, but especially the resulting refugee crisis and skyrocketing crime. There’s a lot about corruption and also about dogs - not the most standard of theme combinations, but it works. (As a dog person, I’m obviously not biased…) The fact that I never saw anything coming added a mysterious bent to the book. I had expected more of a focus on politics - the commentary around the cults of personality that surround both Chávez and Bolívar (and also Bolívar’s dog…) is fascinating, but it’s pretty subtle. That said, given my very surface-level knowledge of Venezuelan politics, there was probably plenty that I didn’t pick up on. That’s not a criticism of the book though, it’s more a case of misplaced expectations - based on the book’s blurb I had thought the political commentary would be far more explicit. A wild ride of dogs, corruption and the cults of personality surrounding Bolívar and Chávez within a Venezuela in deep crisis, which kept me guessing throughout.

I had been looking for a book specifically from Venezuela for the StoryGraph Reads the World challenge, but pickings seemed slim. But I saw this recommended on Instagram, and while there were a few things in the description that gave me pause, I picked it up at the library and ended up glad that I did. The novel follows Ulises, a man who was once a professor, but whose main responsibility now is executing the wish of his recently deceased father-in-law to transform his home and property into a shelter for abandoned dogs. As complicated as this task might be on it own, the will establishes a deadline for the transformation to be complete, and there are plenty of folks providing additional obstacles – most notably his estranged wife, who thinks she should have inherited both her father’s home and the apartment that she and Ulises used to live in, but also a number of corrupt officials and interested parties who, in the crumbling Venezuelan state, will take advantage of any possible leverage to extort some benefit to themselves. In the background of all this are the dogs. Dogs being abandoned as their owners flee the violence and chaos that Venezuela is descending into. Dogs being abused for having the poor fortune to belong to someone of a differing political position. Dogs that may or may not be related to a dog once owned by revered political figures of the past. Dogs that are so much easier to love than people with their complicated and obscured motivations. Dogs that are also so much easier to harm. Not all of the dogs are going to live through this book. There are plenty of interesting men in this book, though the women characters (in my opinion) are not so great. Inscrutable, tragic or harpies, always viewed from the outside, none of them really get a voice here. But I did enjoy that Ulises, while he never seems to be doing much at all, (view spoiler) I enjoyed the partial picture of Venezuela that this book portrays.

Finding grace amidst separation and disconnection Simpatía is not translatable into English as a single word; having a range of meaning from both sympathy and charm. This story opens with Ulises (name intentional) finding out his wife left him and is filing for divorce. His father in-law is estranged from his children and before he dies, he leaves his grand apartment in Venezuela to Ulises under the condition that he make it a home for stray dogs. Ulises and his former-father-in-law had bonded over dogs in the past, almost deifying the canines left behind in the aftermath of Venezuelan revolution. His kids are jealous and are after Ulises for the money/apartment throughout the story. Separation, Dislocation - There are several separations going on in the story, both in relationships, the government, and within the self. Ulises is a conflicted character. He is not affected by the divorce because he gets to keep the home and start up a love affair with Nadine, whom he has strong feelings for. The relationship with Nadine seems a bit flaky. Neither one is has fully committed. There is a partial commitment, but it's as if a piece of Ulises' self was separated from him, somewhere he can't access, and he is divided. Nadine also is experiencing unconscious sleepwalking, a form of disassociation. The wealthy who are fleeing the country are leaving their dogs behind so there are hoards of animals separated from their families. Since Ulises returns to meditations on dogs as god, I can't help but also see some kind of split or division with a higher power. I also see the higher power as a fully integrated Self, which Ulises is not during the story. Parts of him are separate from the self, as they are in the aftermath of trauma. I think there is a lot to unpack with the themes of separation and family here as they parallel the political disruption of the time period in Venezuela. I like how the author worked in the themes and left everything very open for interpretation. A dog provides unconditional love. To some, this is as close a thing to a god as anything. Rescuing the dogs who had become dislocated is a reunification process for Ulises soul. Dogs are charming and sympathetic. Homeless pups especially need a lot of care. I saw this book as a journey of finding grace amidst all this separation and dislocation abounding. 4/5🌟

Well, it looks like South-american literature grows on its own tree and doesn't have much in common with many other parts of the world. I found that Simpatia has a common vibe with Roberto Bolano's novels, also the main character's name Ulises shares it with the one from Bolano's The Savage Detectives. The only characteristic in all the chaos of the novel which is recognisable is the way how all non-democratic countries operate. You can only achieve anything in life if you know right people or do a favour to those. This could be a dramatic story, when talented and hard-working people don't get recognition and could be abused, but in this case this is a somewhat happy story of a mediocre movie fan, who inherits a decent property just because of complex relationships in the family of his ex-wife. Ah, yes, the book is kind of about dogs, e.g. about almost mythical creature, Simon Bolivar's giant dog.

Longlisted for the International Booker, Simpatía is surprisingly accessible and plot-driven. Set in Caracas Ulises is married to Paulina who is estranged from her father Martín. However, Ulises and Martín start a friendship even after Paulina leaves the country. When Martín dies, he leaves Ulises the apartment he shared w Paulina, and his beautiful giant estate as long as Ulises promises to transform it into a dog sanctuary. (In the novel and in real life, Venezuela has had major political turmoil with over 7 million fleeing, causing a surplus of abandoned dogs.) There’s a motley crew of characters who must work together to build the rescue, musings about dogs, the political history of Venezuela, dysfunctional family dynamics, and The Godfather. All in all, an enjoyable read and although there are dark moments, it’s not a slog or overly depressing.

As if I hadn't given myself enough reading challenges this year I also signed up to the Storygraph Reads The World one too, and one of the countries on the list for 2024 is Venezuela. A quick Google later and I discovered Rodrigo Blanco Calderón, and this dinky little read which also happens to have been longlisted for the International Booker Prize this year too so I figured it was worth a read. Set in the author's home city of Caracas, under the repressive rule of President Maduro, protagonist Ulises receives a text from his wife, letting him know she is leaving the country, and him. When her father dies a few months later, they discover that he has left some rather unusual instructions in his will. Estranged from his daughter Paulina, General Martin Ayala tasks Ulises with turning the large family estate into a non-profit dog rescue to help the countless pets who roam the streets, abandoned after their owners left the city en masse following the death of former President Hugo Chavez. One caveat, he must do this within 4 months, if he is successful in his mission, then the estate will be transferred into the name of the charity, with ownership of Ulises and Paulina's marital apartment being gifted to him alone. If he fails, then the estate and apartment will both be transferred into the ownership of Paulina and her brother. So, no pressure then, he only has the lives of a bunch of lovely sad dogs in his hands and potentially his own home and future! The book follows Ulises' journey to get the centre up and running amidst the political (and his own personal) upheaval. A love interest from his past reenters his life and he is unsure who he can trust to help him. There are twists and turns, meddling by the federal government and by the family and I was truly invested in whether or not he would succeed. Maybe that's because of the dogs! Alongside the (somewhat) sweet plot I also learned a lot about Venezuela's political and military history, and I loved the little nods to Greek mythology, with the idea of a 'mission' to complete by the protagonist, but also in Ulises name and the name of the estate (Los Argonautas). The writing was fast-paced, full of heart and humour, and whilst there was quite a heavy political umbrella looming over it, I did not find the plot dry in the slightest.

I have never had a book I liked that I wouldn’t recommend, but I think Simpatía fits that. It’s got a beautiful premise with high stakes, but many scenes are hard to read. There are multiple instances of pet abuse throughout the book, and while it is not the main part of the text, it’s definitely prominent. I am glad this story is told, and it’s personally my favorite of the 2024 international booker books, but I’m not surprised it wasn’t shortlisted. Read at your own discretion.

This story of a Venezuelan man abandoned by his wife and fighting for a place and sense of purpose in a failing country is both strange and surreal. As everyone struggles for survival in this story, the protagonist turns a house into a dog shelter. The dogs are real, but can also be metaphorical for all the abandoned people in Venezuela.

I was both intrigued and entertained by this book, which had an almost fable-like quality. I loved finding out a bit more about Venezuela and I loved the strong role played by dogs.

During the forced occupation of Palestine by Israeli forces in 1948, a young Palestinian woman is raped, killed, and buried by soldiers in the Negev desert. Decades later, a Palestinian writer risks her life trying to obtain more information about this ‘minor detail’ in the wider history of an atrocity. These two narratives are melded together in Adania Shibli’s stunningly scrupulous novel, Minor Detail. Despite being a mere 112 pages, Shibli worked the best part of a decade to hone her novel down to a political narrative so sharp and so streamlined that not a single word seems out of place. The result is a novel that should be heralded as not only a masterpiece, but as a landmark in political fiction. Shibli is surely a shoo-in for the Nobel.

Most novels get shorter the more you read them; some novels get longer, as if the story grows as you read; and there are some novels that can never be finished. No matter how long you close the book, it will always follow you, haunt you, like an indomitable ghost. This novel, by Palestinian novelist Adania Shibli - Minor Detail is such a book that exudes a nightmarish atmosphere and has a powerful aftereffect. For a whole week after reading it, the desert under the scorching Middle Eastern sun, armed soldiers, small olive groves, and Arab women in black robes…. scenes from the book kept flashing in my mind; I could almost hear distant barking, women's cries, and sharp gunshots. My bright mood was also infected by the ubiquitous oppressive, anxious, and terrifying atmosphere in the book, becoming somewhat dazed and depressed. Really to my surprise that this short novel had such an emotional impact。 The story revolves around the death of an unnamed Arab girl. The whole book is divided 2 two parts. The first part tells the story of a group of Israeli soldiers who, in 1948, raped and murdered an Arab girl they had captured while on patrol in the desert bordering Egypt. The second part tells the story of an Arab woman, the narrator of the second part, who sees a news report about this incident twenty-five years later. Driven by a force she herself finds inexplicable, she is determined to risk her life to explore more details about the incident. The story is not complicated. But the way Shibli writes it seems to me to be quite subversive. She seems to deliberately subvert the most basic rule of conventional writing, which is to always focus on conflict and plot. The whole book does not give much space to the core event of the story, but instead, like the title of the book, fills page after page with trivial details. For example, the first part actually spends two whole pages describing in excruciating detail, with the precision of a 4K high-definition camera, the process of the leading perpetrator, an Israeli soldier, shaving: how he pours water from the water tank into the basin, how he applies shaving cream, how he carefully shaves (starting from the chin, then the cheeks), and how the shaved stubble floats in the water basin... These details are puzzling and frustrating to read because they seem to have nothing to do with the main plot. The reading experience of this part is like watching a 50-minute documentary about a factory that has exploded, where for 45 minutes, the camera focuses on things like graffiti on the factory walls, close-ups of machine parts, workers' meals, and logos on safety helmets - all sorts of inexplicable things. Shibli doesn't write this way because she doesn't know anything about writing. The fact that a book with such a fragmented plot can still keep me reading and leave me with a long-lasting impression is a testament to the fact that she is actually challenging a higher level of writing (and succeeding). Even when the violence suddenly appears near the end of the book, her writing is restrained to the point of being cold. But the narrator never "intervenes" in the events throughout. She is like a pure observer and recorder, without any comments or emotions. All the seemingly boring and meaningless details, when combined with the final "detail" of the Arab girl's death, suddenly reveal their meaning. Only then do I realize that the unnamed girl's rape and murder, so random and so casual (the perpetrator, an Israeli soldier, let his subordinates decide how to deal with the girl, to let her go or to execute her, by voting), is like an insignificant detail in the perpetrator's daily life. From the perspective of the Israeli soldier who commits the violence but has no emotional fluctuations, the girl's death is not even as important to him as a wound caused by a spider bite on his leg. The second part of the book, is like a ghost story. Twenty-five years after the unnamed Arab girl was shot dead by the Israeli army in the desert, another Arab woman sets out to find more details about the scene of the crime. However, what drives her is not a sense of responsibility or justice. It's another detail: she shares the same birthday as the murdered girl. Many details in the second part echo the first part: the dogs that block the way and the military dogs of the Israeli soldiers in the first part, the soap bubbles in the bath in the hotel and the scene of the Arab girl being forced to bathe in the first part, the camels encountered in the mountains and the camels shot by the Israeli soldiers in the first part, the endless fog, and of course, the sound of gunfire... So the Arab woman in the second part reads like a reincarnation of the Arab girl in the first part. They were born on the same day, which is almost a clear indication. Else, how else can you explain the inexplicable fear and anxiety that has kept her awake? She cannot forget the pain of her past life. She sets out to revisit the scene of the crime that day, perhaps to confirm her memory. What awaits her is another string of fiery bullets. Just like the painful memories of violence inflicted on the soul, there is only reincarnation, never ending. Crazy! And Shibil devotes a lot of description to crossing the border, as a Palestinian, to enter the "Israel Defense Forces History Museum" to see another narrative. If you wonder what it's like for a woman to describe such a grand theme, she actually provides a minor perspective, a detail, but it's shockingly huge. Without using those serious words, but rather specific details, physical invasion, the psychological activities of crossing checkpoints, it's too specific. For some reasons, I just like it. 4.3 / 5 stars

the struggle of Palestinian women under Israeli occupation across two distinct yet related timelines, perspectives shifting from the third to the first, man to woman, Israeli to Palestinian, soldier to civilian. Moving and tragic, wish it were a bit longer

“there are some who consider this way of seeing, which is to say, focusing intently on the most minor details, like dust on the desk or fly shit on a painting, as the only way to arrive at the truth and definitive proof of its existence.” beautifully written, heartbreaking, harrowing. a difficult but must read.

A tormenting gust of putrid air penetrates the broken body and soul of an unnamed soldier. The indifference and malaise ensures that horrors and savagery can be sustained: Innocence is a virtue for debate. Victimhood is a bartering coin. How can suffering be endured in the name of an idea(l)? How can we deviate from righteousness, morality and justifiable reasoning? Some actions are beyond comprehension. It’s all just history repeating itself. Adania Shibli’s telegraphic language, void of fanfaronade , gives us a glimpse into the eclipse of humanness. This is sharp-tasting novella that will leave you petrified with the illusions and realities of the human psyche. 4.3/5

‘man, not tank, shall prevail.’ harrowing and tense, but an incredibly important read. there’s so much to be said between the lines here, and a lot to sit with after digesting the symbolism and intricacies of the novel.

Incredible — such an impactful short book, which discusses life under Israeli occupation and one woman's thirst for information about the past, even as she bumps up against the ways Israel has restricted her freedom to information and movement. The first half was harrowing and hard to read, and without the second half would've been kind of a brutal look at 1940's life in Palestine. But, the second half tied it all together in the most interesting way, and left me thinking about the incalculable injustice behind Israel's decades-long genocide. Incalculable is really the only word. Ceasefire now. Some favorite quotes: "There are some people who navigate borders masterfully. Who never trespass -- but these people are few. And I am not one of them." "There are some who consider this way of seeing, which is to say, focusing intently on the most minor details, like dust on the desk or fly shit on a painting, as the only way to arrive at the truth and definitive proof of its existence.” "By the way, I hope I didn’t cause any awkwardness when I mentioned the incident with the soldier, or the checkpoint, or when I reveal that we are living under occupation here.” "Official museums like this really have no valuable information to offer me, not even small details that could help me retell the girl’s story."

What a harrowing read. The writing is intentionally clinical, detached, and instills a barrier between the reader and the protagonists. The use of symmetry between the two parts of the book and repetition was superb. Beyond capturing the devastation and systematic violence against Palestinians, Shibli also made me reflect a lot on how we consume history and media. Unspeakable tragedies and entire lives are condensed into minor details. As she recounts the true lived horror of a teenage girl who is captured, brutalized, and raped, we aren't privy to any aspects of her identity or life. The entirety of her existence is forgotten aside from her death, which is barely a consideration for anyone other than the sheer coincidence of her death overlapping with the lives of each narrator. We often use detachment as a protective mechanism to avoid acknowledging the true injustices and inequities in the world, but in Minor Detail, we are forced to look. Everything about this book was uncomfortable and challenging to sit through as a reader. The writing is rife with symbolism and expertly conveys life under exile and occupation. The ending, albeit heartbreaking, was the perfect conclusion to leave me reeling. Minor Detail will resonate with readers more than novels three times its length, and Shibli's writing (which appears simple on the surface) is built upon precision and intent. Everyone should read this book.

This book was gut-wrenching, for multiple reasons. Still formulating my thoughts, and I will come back to it. Alright, a week later. Thought's formulated enough, I think. This novella is divided into two parts, the first is a fictionalized retelling of a true event that took place in the Nagev desert in 1949, where settlers killed an entire Bedouin-Palestinian family save for one teenage girl who they tortured and r-worded before also killing her. The second part follows a woman in modern day Ramallah (well, based on context clues, I'm assuming it's set sometime in the early 2000s) who becomes obsessed with the story of the Bedouin girl. She travels throughout the land of Historic Palestine, looking for more clues and information. It's still difficult to say what this story's purpose was, other than to just tell a story of occupation through little moments and descriptions, minor details if you will. The second half of it made me feel less like I was reading a story and more like I WAS the woman searching for answers. We both read the first story together, we both became curious about it, and we both went on a journey to look for what? I'm not sure, and neither was the MC. I felt so deeply connected to this book while I was reading it. Incredibly enthralling, so heartbreaking. Such a necessary story as well.

Stark and brutal, with a haunting ending. I'm not sure I have anything new to add to the conversation around this book, other than those turned away by the bleakness of the first part will be rewarded by pushing through to the ending. While no less difficult to read in the second half, Shibli's ability to adapt her voice and prose to achieve different narrative ends is something many authors achieve with only half the dexterity. The callous efficiency of the Israeli soldier's violence and daily routine is mirrored by the weary annoyance of the Palestinian woman who seeks to uncover his crimes. A must-read for those seeking to read Palestinian stories in their own words.

this storytelling is so beautiful

oh my god i was not prepared for that ending. a 4 for now but that will likely go up

„Man, not the tank, shall prevail” This quote is engraved on the monument commemorating the Battle of Nirim, during which, in 1948, 45 lightly armed Israeli soldiers stood against Egyptian tanks. Now in Adania Shibli’s novel, this quote comes back like bitter laughter of history. When one looks at Israeli military superpower vs subjugation of Palestinians in the occupied territories, the quote migrates from the side who wrote it to the one being fought against. It’s hard to get away from politics reading a book like “Minor Detail”, especially taking into account how rarely Palestinian voices are heard in literary, or even wider, cultural discourse. Reducing this novel to politics would be unfair though because it’s a little (barely over 100 pages) literary gem with beautiful, quite frugal writing. The novel circles around a confinement, rape, and a murder of young Bedouin woman in 1949, following the 1948 war. The historical part of the novel is narrated by an Israeli soldier, or using the words of J.M. Coetzee quoted in the “praise section” of this edition, an Israeli psychopath (and Coetzee nor I claim Israeli soldiers are psychopaths, this particular one was). The modern-day section is narrated by a young Palestinian woman, on the autism scale. What a brilliant and brave selection of POVs. The desert climate described with the same economic quality evokes a vivid imaginary so the reader almost feels that hot, dry, and sandy air around him. The smells also play important role in driving the novel’s metaphorical side. Stunning translation by Elisabeth Jaquette, and a very strong novella overall.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2022 I see what you did there, Fowler: This book is crafted as a Great American Novel, meaning that it shows the destiny of an American family in its time in order to say something about the country as a whole, particularly regarding the promise of liberty and the pursuit of happiness, a.k.a. the American dream. Alas, the immigrant family we meet here is that of John Wilkes Booth, the murderer of Abraham Lincoln. Focusing on his parents and three of his nine siblings, we also get a panorama of the time leading to the Civil War, and Fowler points out that she sees parallels to the current political situation, with a Confederate flag being carried through the Capitol during the recent insurrection. I can understand much of the criticism that was aimed at the book: It is long and it defies expectation in as far as John Wilkes Booth always stays in the background, which means his character and his convictions are more hinted at than fully developed, IMHO. But I was fully absorbed by the story of his father Junius Brutus Booth, a British immigrant, highly respected Shakespearean actor and raging alcoholic, as well as John Wilke's famous alcoholic actor brother Edwin, who is said to have been the greatest Hamlet of the 19th century. Edwin as well as John Wilke's sisters, Asia, a writer, and Rosalie, whose ambitions were never fulfilled, offer the three main narrative perspectives on the family and the time, and the text is also interspersed with historical vignettes giving context that focuses on the political deeds of Lincoln. So this is a family novel and Künstlerroman about a bunch of bohemian, leftist eccentrics that experience a period of historical turmoil, and one of them changes sides and not only roots for the South, but becomes a political assassin. I don't think John Wilke's development is sufficiently explained, and I also think that the parallels to today, while clearly existing, are not fully worked out, but I was so intrigued by these characters and the (mostly real!) events that unfold that I listened to the audiobook every second I could spare. This Booker jury rules, as this is not the first novel that I read solely because it is longlisted, and it was a good decision.

i won a goodreads giveaway!!!

In an author's note at the end of this novel Karen Joy Fowler expresses her feelings of ambiguity about fictionally recreating the life of John Wilkes Booth, one of the most notorious figures in US history. He was famed for being a handsome and talented actor until the age of 26 when he became infamous for assassinating President Abraham Lincoln in Ford's Theatre on April 15, 1865. Why give more attention to a fanatic and egotist? This was a defining moment in American history which forever reshaped the country so it's only natural to wonder how it came about. Fowler was interested in the way it affected the rest of Booth's family. She's also haunted by Lincoln's warnings about tyrants and mobs in this country and how this still resonates today. The impetus for this novel which recreates the story of the Booth family also presents a conundrum for the reader who will most likely only know of John Wilkes Booth for a single defining action. Therefore, following the story of his life from birth we're naturally attentive to any action which indicates a propensity for mental instability, extreme views or violence. Fowler peppers the text with such signs and we can only warily witness an emboldened John who states at one point: “It's a wonderful thing... to be right in the middle of something so momentous. To feel that you've touched history and history has touched you.” Unlike the author's previous novel “We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves” which contains a famous twist, there's never any doubt about how “Booth” will end but that makes this story no less gripping. The thing about significant historical events is that they can come to feel inevitable, but obviously in the present moment we're faced with an infinite number of possibilities. We also cannot know the many repercussions of our actions. Though Fowler describes John as having certain propensities, his family definitely didn't view him as having the potential to be a monster. This novel primarily focuses on the point of view of John's surviving siblings and the dramatic story of their challenging family life leading up to John's murderous action. Their father Junius was a famous Shakespearean actor and a complicated tyrannical larger-than-life figure. On one hand, he was an intelligent artist who respected all life as sacred. On the other, he was bigamist who abandoned his first wife, frequently neglected his family and occasionally drunkenly terrorized his mistress and children. Naturally living under his shadow his children grew to both revere and hate him. It's fascinating reading how they change over time and wrestle with their identities as the offspring of Booth. Crucially, their interactions with John feel like any complicated sibling relationship. There's closeness and distance as well as moments of tenderness and frustration. Read my full review of Booth by Karen Joy Fowler at LonesomeReader

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Genre: Historical Fiction Booth is a historical fiction that tells the story of Booth's family, that is the infamous John Wilkes Booth, the American stage actor who assassinated President Abraham Lincoln at Ford’s Theatre in Washington, D.C. This follows the lives of his parents, Junius Booth and Mary Ann Holmes, as well as his siblings, Rosalie, Asia, Edwin, June, and Joe. The story is set in 1822 with the major part of the book being about the family itself, all the problems and hardships they face. There is also the social and political background of the country in that period that keep affecting the lives of the members of the family and the society. This was a very intriguing read for me. I have never read anything about John Booth before and was truly interested to know more about him. This book doesn’t just focus on him but on his whole family, which pleases me even more. I’m always in for dysfunctional families. Maybe not all the readers would agree if this family can be termed as dysfunctional but at least we can agree that it was a family with lots of issues and problems. The fascinating thing is that the author was concentrating on each one of the members, especially the siblings. And she did a fabulous job with that. Rosalie is my favorite character in the book. As for the issues, there is slavery, racism, alcoholism, and bigamy to mention a few. Another thing I appreciate the author doing is keeping the timeline linear which helped me to understand these characters’ situations. I’m glad about it. Towards the middle, the pace did slow down a bit but I wouldn’t call that a major issue as the beautiful writing style kept me engaged. How much of this book is true and how much of it is fiction is a questionable thing. But regardless of that, the author must’ve done an extensive research to come up with this story. It always impresses me when a book ends up being entertaining and educational at the same time. This is where Booth shines for me. Many thanks to the publisher Penguin Group Putnam, G.P. Putnam's Sons, and NetGalley for providing me with an advance reader copy of this book.

I've got a complicated relationship with Fowler, and I am relatively picky about historical fiction so I was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed Booth. I was aided in having picked up from reviews I'd read before embarking on this novel, that it's not REALLY about John Wilkes Booth, but rather his family. This does feel like a bit of a bait and switch which is probably the fault of marketing rather than the novel itself. In this way, Booth is both sprawling and meditatively paced. Where I'd ordinarily find such sedate pacing over a pretty lengthy novel frustrating, I instead found this immersive. What I think Fowler does well is explore history through the eyes of those who sit in its periphery. Rather than looking at exceptional players, we see how shocking events are experienced by those adjacent to them. It is a thoughtful examination of the ripple effect of reckless and extreme actions, and what it means when someone you love turns out to be someone who does awful things. I found these characters, and this question thoughtfully compelling.

This took some time to get into but in the end the effort paid off. It tells the story of the Booth family trying to make a life for themselves in 19th century America as Shakespeare actors with in the background the looming American Civil War. One of the sons goes on to kill Abraham Lincoln. It is by no means a flawless novel. The prose feels a bit clunky and doesn't sparkle. The structure is quite strange, often it is unclear who the narrator is and from time to time curious paragraphs pop up which seem written centuries later. I also had some issues with the Lincoln inserts in the text - on the one hand they provided valuable insight in the developing political situation, on the other hand it feels like the author selected them on the basis of the topic she was most interested in and not necessarily the Booth family (i.e. the abolition of slavery). But despite these flaws it worked very well for me as a historical novel and made me rediscover my love for historical fiction. It draws interesting parallels with the divided America we know today. How politics can divide families. How frustration can slowly turn into extremism. And how division can lead to civil war. But mostly this was just a fascinating family portrait of life in 19th century America. The characters felt very close and quite modern, and I was also surprised by how modern the US was already around 1850. Another one on the Booker list that would be on my shortlist, but that I would be very surprised to see as a winner.

The voice crafted for this story about the family Booth is very well done. It’s engaging and representative of different family members characterizations. It flies along the innocuous and the narration is great (say, 4/5 stars on that front, not incredible but better than average). What was a bit of a gamble for me, the premise that this whole family was interesting enough for this long a book, was more worth it than I expected, though still had what felt like superfluous content. The voice really does carry it at such times. In this case “truth” is stranger than fiction though, I bet, as the family is replete will all manner of foibles and wild occurrences and, as everyone expects: tragedy. Though they may not expect as many as are here. There’s also an authors note at the end that talks about fact and fiction in here, and where to go next if you want more Booth family drama. I appreciate that, since historical fiction for me is all fiction, unless otherwise stated. I think this would appeal to just about everyone - it is that dramatic and often presented in a melodramatic fashion that befits the predominate profession the family was known for. Certainly a bit of an Americana vibe, which I didn’t care much about, but I think would appeal to those folks. All around better than I expected but perhaps a bit overlong.

2022 BOOKER PRIZE LONGLIST CHALLENGE BOOTH by Karen Joy Fowler The Booth name has become villainous, synonymous with hatred and murder, its most recognized holder, John Wilkes, guilty of assassinating Abraham Lincoln just as the US Civil War was winding down. Karen Joy Fowler, previously shortlisted for unexpectedly wild WE ARE COMPLETELY BESIDES OURSELVES, delivers a much more down the middle work of historical fiction account of the Booth family, known for their work as thespians until the second-youngest of the family killed audience member Lincoln while performing My American Cousin. Providing altering accounts from each living sibling’s perspective, we get thrown into a family obsessed with Shakespeare, children trying to live up to the legacy of their famous father Junius Brutus Booth while trying to escape his shadow, all with a brewing national conflict coming to the break the family apart. This book has faced a lot of criticism and many readers have been bored by the content. At times, the multiple perspectives becomes tedious, but I was also fascinated by the themes explore. The novel feels like a brilliant fiction companion to James Shapiro’s SHAKESPEARE IN A DIVIDED AMERICA (which has a chapter on Booth and Lincoln and their relationship with The Bard’s works), introducing us to the first family of American theatre, a forum of art wedded deeply to popular consumption and participation at the time, where the larger fissures in the country would find their voice even in plays written centuries before. The character accounts are all intimate and very much focused on the personal conflicts inside the family but the larger events that were fundamentally transforming the nation at the time couldn’t help shape those family divisions. Maybe not gripping but still an excellent literary accomplishment. That said, I don’t expect it to appear on the shortlist. #bookerprize #bookerprizelonglist #bookstagram #bookstagramreadsthebooker #bookprizes #literature #novels #audiobook #libbyapp #americanliterature

A story about an interesting family during an unsettling time. With ten children, it’s challenging to get to know all of them in full depth. We know how it will end, the buildup is slow and somewhat tedious. Characters are introduced then mentioned hundreds of pages later and it took me a moment to remember who they were. None of the characters are very like able. The plot just moves along. It is interesting how the Shakespeare plays mimic the themes in their lives. Still, it didn’t grab me as much as this authors other book. Thank you NetGalley for the ARC.

Critically acclaimed and bestselling author Karen Joy Fowler returns almost a decade after WE ARE COMPLETELY BESIDE OURSELVES with BOOTH, an intimate yet kaleidoscopic portrait of the family behind one of the most hated men in American history: John Wilkes Booth, President Abraham Lincoln’s assassin. “What happens to love when the person you love is a monster?” writes Fowler in her author’s note. This question --- and the focus on this love rather than its recipient --- forms the heart of this ambitious, nearly 500-page novel. Like so many victim advocates have reminded us to do, Fowler sets her writerly gaze not on Booth, but on his victim and those victimized by his act: his loving, dysfunctional family. Presided over by Junius Booth, an esteemed Shakespearean actor, the Booth family’s history begins in 1822 on a secluded farm 30 miles northeast of Baltimore. Magnetic and mercurial yet undeniably talented, Junius is an eccentric: he considers eating meat a sin, he praises the “Hindoos” as the possessors of the only true religion, he believes that no man can be owned, and his penchant for liquor encourages him to act out these beliefs (and more) in varying states of inebriation and madness. The Booth matriarch, Mary, is a dark-haired beauty whose passion for Junius is eclipsed only by her tragic life as a mother. Between the two of them, the Booths conceive 10 children, only six of whom live beyond childhood. The children are Junius “June,” more brawn than brains, his father’s greatest disappointment; Rosalie, the family’s built-in nanny, who bears witness to the worst of her siblings’ deaths and her mother’s grief; Edwin, sensitive and quiet, with the most beautiful eyes; Asia, headstrong and stunning; John “Johnny” Wilkes, the apple of his family’s eye; and Joseph Adrian, nearly an afterthought. The youngest, Johnny and Joe, seem almost inconsequential, divided from their older siblings by four tragic deaths and years of grief and upheaval. Yet, as we all know, it will be Johnny who makes the family’s name synonymous with death. BOOTH contains six “books,” each of which is divided into chapters focused on one of the Booth children. Rosalie sets the scene in Book 1. Through her eyes, we watch as Junius Sr.’s career takes off in fits and starts, both propelled and halted by his alcoholism. Unstable and prone to angry outbursts, Junius is still beloved by his family, raising them with a love for nature so strong that to even pluck a flower on his property is akin to murder. But with his career taking off, Junius is gone for nine months each year, leaving Mary and Rosalie to nurture, parent and raise the remaining children. With Mary still reeling from the losses of four of her kids, Rosalie devotes herself to keeping the family together, becoming a sort of third parent to the young ones. Raised in a household steeped in Shakespeare, many of them dream of becoming actors, yet their father will hear none of it, demanding instead that they choose stable, honest careers. This dissonance is not the first of his idiosyncrasies to plague their mental and emotional states, but it is perhaps one of the most formative. The older children are much more like their father when it comes to spiritual and political beliefs. The younger ones have been raised in almost entirely different families, so changed were the Booths by wealth and access to better schooling, homes in the city and the loss of older siblings to guide them. June and Edwin become celebrated actors, while Rosalie turns into a spinster-fied version of their mother, and Asia is a budding flirt. As the older brothers venture farther away from the Booth home, Johnny and Joe grow up without the same influences. As a result, Johnny turns rebellious, while Joe is nearly forgotten at school. Johnny’s nature is a quiet current throughout the book, one that runs so naturally and unimpeded that his family cannot see it for the portent that it is until it’s far too late. Fowler never goes so far as to excuse John Wilkes Booth, but her writing of the historical context is so immersive and perfectly distilled that his actions seem inevitable --- if not because of the instability and difficulty with alcohol that binds his family, then for the tensions brewing nationwide over slavery, immigration and the rights of states. As war becomes a reality, Johnny starts siding firmly with the South on each of these issues. That he stands against the rest of his family is glossed over time and time again in favor of harmony, and with the constant refrain that “the war will be over soon anyway.” (If you’re hearing echoes of “He was always a quiet boy” or “We never could have expected this,” you’re on the right track.) BOOTH walks the fine line between immersive (at times unwieldy) historical fiction and searing contemporary social horror. The history is written beautifully and, at its best, does what only the strongest historical fiction can do: capture the details of a time vividly and place the reader in the mind of someone living in that time authentically. At its weakest, the prose can be a bit weighed down by cliché and information dumps. That said, the glory of the novel comes from Fowler herself, who does not write down to her readers by drawing overhanded parallels between the divide created by the Civil War and our current political climate. Early on, when setting the political scene, Fowler writes that Lincoln warned the public of two possible threats to the Republic: the lawless actions of the mob and the inevitable rise someday of an aspiring dictator. She tells us right from the start that “the gravest peril will come if the mob and the dictator unite,” thus setting the stage for both John Wilkes Booth --- radical and mad, but never not loved --- and political figures of our own time. That his family, and the Booth name, was also victim to his madness is an emotionally resonant point that reverberates through both 40 years of Booth history and centuries of America. Reviewed by Rebecca Munro

Everyone knows that John Wilkes Booth assassinated Abraham Lincoln; most people (I think) know that the murder happened at the theater, and that Booth jumped onstage and shot into the president's box. I also knew that Booth's brother was a famous Shakespearean actor. I didn't really know anything about him, or his family, and I can't say I ever stopped to wonder much about why he killed Lincoln, let alone what that meant to his family members. And that's the miracle of fine writers, like Karen Fowler (who is a friend). She explores the strange twists and turns of the Booth family from the marriage of John Wilkes' parents through the aftermath of the assassination. She couldn't do that well without exploring the times, which she does with her characteristic "ruminative irony" (phrase courtesy Jonathan Lethem's back cover blurb). Here's a snippet from Asia's point of view, when her oldest brother June brings home his wife, Hattie, and their filthy young baby. "Marion smells of urine and spoiiled food. Her dress is staind and clean cloths will have to be found to diaper her, since the ones Hattie brought, including the one she's wearing, all need a desperate washing. And yet, she's adorable, lots of hair and big brown eyes. "Asia's feelings for Hattie, who also has hair and eyes, are more complicated." I found the book absorbing, disconcerting, sometimes heart-wrenching. The primary point of view characters are Rosalie (the oldest sister, about whom least is known, requiring much more fictionalization on Karen's part), Asia, a younger sister with a very strong personality, and Edwin, the Shakespearean actor brother. Their father, Junius, was a leading Shakespearean actor in his generation, and three of four his surviving sons (June, Edwin, and John Wilkes) followed him onto the stage to various degrees, but it was Edwin who became one of the country's leading romantic figures. Historical fiction about real people is constrained by what actually happened, and this book does a far better job than most of foregrounding the history while keeping a strong narrative flow (some of that may be because the family was so interesting and the story is in fact a good one). It's not a story for the faint of heart--aside from the assassination itself, there are numerous accounts of childhood deaths, a great deal of alcohol abuse, family rifts, and the ongoing background of owned human lives. I devoured it; if it's your kind of book, I think you will too.

Rec. by: Previous work Rec. for: Rival siblings We already know how the Booth family's story ends. It is a tragedy in the classical sense, both because we know and for what we know. We all know the story—or at least we think we do... but we have not previously been provided with the perspective. Karen Joy Fowler's historical novel Booth is a marvelous work that gives us that perspective. It is a tragedy of Shakespearean proportions (which is entirely appropriate; after all, the family's patriarch was the renowned Shakespearean actor Junius Booth, and several of his sons followed him into the theatre). The whole farm speaks in iambic pentameter. —p.239 This novel is more like Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead, though, than Hamlet. Fowler focuses on the folks around John Wilkes Booth—his family and friends, and what they knew of him long before that fateful night in Ford's theatre. Booth himself does not even appear on the scene until page 59, and Abraham Lincoln appears only in brief establishing scenes throughout. This is all by design, and it's a measure of Fowler's confidence and determination that her sidelong gaze works so well. "Don't bring damnation on yourself by swearing to the truth of your anecdotes." —John Wilkes Booth, p.200 Booth is fiction, though, and Fowler cannot swear to the truth of all her anecdotes. This version is based on historical documents, but those are not comprehensive—especially when it comes to the eldest sister Rosalie and her role in raising her younger brother John. This is a good reminder that no one in the world is a reliable source for their own story. —p.98 I did find myself entertained by this description of Asia Booth's suitor Dan, which actually fits my son (who has the same name) eerily well... Dan {Scott} is thin and pale with excellent teeth and wild, curly hair, a thoroughly presentable young man. —p.223 Siblings can be problematic, to be sure. I know this myself—I have a beloved family member with whom I can only converse about innocuous topics ("butterflies and daffodils"), these days. Fowler understands this very well: I was in the midst of my final edits when, during the violent insurrection of January 6th, 2021, I saw the flag of the Confederacy carried through the halls of the Capitol for the very first time. Let it be the last. —Author's Note, p.466 Karen Joy Fowler is one of my favorite authors anyway, and I was eagerly anticipating Booth. I was not disappointed; Fowler's novel is a complex work with vivid characterizations and a plot that's both historical and extraordinarily timely. If I did not enjoy this one quite as much as I did We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves, that is—I am sure—my own failure, rather than hers. The novel itself is well worth reading, and I commend it to your attention.

Highly engaging both topically & imagined.

Knowing nothing about the book, I thought it must be about John Wilkes Booth's life leading up to the assassination of President Lincoln. Boy, was I off course. This is a story that revolves around the family, its dynamics, its rage, its interpersonal relationships, its drama and indeed its alcoholism. I started the book and thought I wouldn't like it because it felt dry and I was getting all the characters mixed up. Knowing that a friend loved the book I decided to persevere and I am thankful I did. As I went along I wrote down everyone's names and their relationships to one another , which succeeded in keeping me on the straight and narrow. There is so much that I was unaware of including the fact that the father was a major Shakespearian actor with a penchant for alcohol and mad capers. A son, Edwin became a famous sought after actor who amassed a great deal of money. Asia was always considered beautiful but was a spitfire since she was born with a tempestuous temper. Johnny or John(as he liked to be identified as he grew older) was a bit of a scoundrel growing up, always butting heads with authorities. And then there was Rosalie, the spinster who did backbreaking work taking care of the others as they grew up which even included the mother.The interrelatedness of the children and the political divisions of the country helped to cast an eye how John became a crazed man subsequently. The theater and acting were major influences in the development of the children but the times altered their experience as well. Fowler brought in the Kansas-Nebraska act, the Dred Scot Decision, Grant, Lee, Stephen Douglas and the hanging of John Brown. Interspersed with this history, were vignettes about Lincoln that helped establish time and place. You can read about the basic synopsis of the book above, but the ultimate takeaway is the reflection on our past, our present and where we go in the future. It couldn't be more relevant today.

A fascinating novel about a remarkable family. The Booths were an early American dynasty of acting talents who enjoyed a fair amount of celebrity, as well as scandal, in their day, but were eventually tarnished by infamy when John Wilkes assassinated Lincoln. Father Junius is barely ever at home, criss-crossing the nation on tour while his wife and children are mostly left at home in Baltimore and a farm nearby. The novel rotates in point of view from Rosalie, one of the older children of the family to survive infancy (she is, at times, on intimate terms with the ghosts of her deceased siblings), Edwin, who grows up to be at least as famous an actor as his father (you can easily find photos of him as Hamlet in an online search), and Asia, a younger daughter who is close to both Edwin and John. The historical details are fascinating, but if I had to summarize it in a phrase I'd describe this even more as fiction about family than historical fiction. I am drawn to stories about Lincoln (Lincoln in the Bardo, Courting Mr. Lincoln, movies like Young Mr. Lincoln) and Fowler peppers the novel with concise segments that give us brilliant flashes into his life in parallel to the Booths. I'm also drawn to fiction about Shakespeare (Hamnet) and love theater, so I was captivated by the details about actors of that era performing Shakespeare. But rest assured that Fowler keeps the focus on rich characters and the storyline, both handled superbly. (I've never read Fowler before, but looking over her past work I'm astounded by her range.) Ultimately, unavoidably, this comes down to John Wilkes Booth and the assassination of Lincoln. Fowler does an excellent job satisfying our curiosity about this event while keeping its impact on the Booth family at the center. As depicted here, the Booths were abolitionist and pro-Union in their sympathies (paterfamilias Junius was also vegetarian), and John's actions shake the family to its core. Like all the best historical fiction, it resonates with the events of our day as much as its own, but Fowler lets those parallels speak for themselves. I loved this story of a remarkable family experiencing both love and tragedy.

*A big thank you to Putnam Books and NetGalley for gifted copies of this book. 𝗕𝗢𝗢𝗧𝗛 is a fascinating work of historical fiction that explores the family dynamics of John Wilkes Booth leading up to his infamous assassination of Abraham Lincoln. I was surprised to find that the event of the assassination and even John Wilkes himself were not the center of the book. Rather, Karen Joy Fowler focused on the history of the entire Booth family with alternating POVs from John’s siblings. The novel read like a compelling character study that explored the family of a man who committed a terrible act of violence. While the author took creative license with some aspects of the novel it is heavily inspired by detailed letters from John’s siblings (which were often stranger than fiction!) The amount of research the author put into this novel is truly staggering and commendable. At times the novel read like narrative nonfiction and was reminiscent of BETTY and EDUCATED. I was fascinated by this family marked by famous theater actors, mental health instability, and ongoing tragedies and loss. Despite the nearly 500 page length, I found the story compelling and was able to breeze through in a few days thanks to a combination of print/audio copies. January LaVoy did a fantastic job narrating the story with spot on accents and truly brought the novel to life. As always, a fascinating author’s note compared the current state of our country to the civil war era. Readers who are interested in fresh perspectives on American history will appreciate this unique story of the Booth family.

I had no idea what this book was even about, I just loved the cover #dontjudgeabookbyitscover , no never! ‘Booth’ is a historical fiction, again I had no idea till I did a cheeky google search and found that these characters are actually real life humans from the mid 1800s. We follow the Booth family who are a family of theatre kids, performing Shakespeare legit every night, straight hustlers. The book has two sorta stories, one of Abraham Lincoln which I found random (hence me google searching) and how he stopped slavery and the rest follows the Booth family because the most attractive Booth son ends up assassinating Abraham Lincoln; yes for real! I had no idea, I liked that I got to learn something whilst reading and I may have found a new interest in historical fictions because of this. I loved Asia and loved her conflict between the love of her brother and what was right. If you ever had a slight interest in history at school or generally, defs get into historical fiction and I think start with this one! Four stars!

I started this thinking it would be about John Wilkes Booth. There were a lot of Booth siblings to Edwin and John Wilkes. This starts with sister Rosalie being the main character. It works for this story because I get so much about everyone else through her eyes. Their father was a major actor in his time, for a time. The mother situation. This lets us see Edwin without having to do a character study. It seems like Junious is lost to time, because he had a lot of explaining for his life that never got done. I read this all the way to the end including author notes and thank you’s. Turns out there wasn’t much info on Rosalie even though she was such a big part. Kudos to the author making her come alive with limited info. I was looking for more post April 1865 thoughts. She hits most of what can be said but it seemed short. Edwin’s return to the stage in a few paragraphs was touching and painted an emotional picture.

Read the Author's Note at the end. It explains the context for this novel and Fowler's thesis so well. Fascinating, but an awful lot of detail and a slew of names to keep up with.

In her historical novel “Booth,” author Karen Joy Fowler examines the family that gave America two of its most acclaimed 19th Century actors, Junius Booth and son Edwin; and spawned its most infamous villain: John Wilkes Booth. I’ve always wondered how such a family could simultaneously produce such great talents and so evil a malefactor; and how both Junius’s and Edwin’s reputations could survive their son and brother's great crime. In “Booth,” Ms. Fowler strives to give us the answers. The story she tells is an interesting albeit cheerless one, filled with alcoholism, mental illness, ambition, financial instability, pridefulness, guilt, divided loyalty, shifting alliances, and family dysfunction. Junius is a great actor, but an awful alcoholic. Edwin must be his “minder” on tour, making sure his father shows up to perform and fees are sent home, denying his own future. But then he deserts his father and becomes just as bad a drunk; then marries; then loses his wife in childbirth; then, guilt-driven, gives up drinking to concentrate on his career to financially support the rest of the Booth family. John Wilkes is handsome and charismatic and a family favorite, but, unlike the family, is devoted to the South and a terrible racist and classist who hates Lincoln for being both a “tyrant” and his social inferior. Mother Mary struggles to keep the family together and housed and fed. Daughter Rosalie suffers from scoliosis and shyness, is resigned to spinsterhood, and likes her nip of gin. Daughter Asia would like to run the family and have veto power over the women her brothers choose to marry. With all this and more, it’s a story that has a lot going on. It’s also a story filled with strange but true facts and coincidences. For example, two years before the assassination, Lincoln saw John Wilkes Booth in a performance at Ford’s Theater and liked it enough to invite the actor to visit him at the White House (an invitation which JWB refused). And sometime before the assassination, Edwin Booth saved Lincoln’s son, Robert Todd Lincoln, from being crushed by a train (although he didn’t know it was RTL at the time. Indeed, he only learned that through a friend who served with RTL on General Grant’s staff.) And it’s a story steeped in theater: Shakespeare’s “Richard III,” “Hamlet,” “MacBeth,” and “Othello;” Tom Taylor’s “Our American Cousin;” famous actors of the day, including Edwin Forrest and Laura Keene; Ford’s Theater, The Winter Garden Theater, Philadelphia’s Walnut Street Theater (each still open today)—all appear in “Booth.” So, there are some very, very interesting components to this novel—lots of history to discover. But I found the writing somewhat unconventional for a novel. It’s very expository with relatively few attempts to create actual scenes. There’s very little dialogue—almost none. Not much attention is paid to setting. I never really got the sense of what it was like to be in a 19th Century theater or in any of the cities (e.g., Baltimore, D.C., London, San Francisco) where the novel takes place--what they looked like, how they smelled, etc. And the third-person omniscient narrator is not shy about expressing their opinion or stepping out of the story’s present to tell us what happens in the future. All of this had the effect of distancing me from the novel. At times it seemed I was reading a history class lecture rather than fiction. Then again, I enjoy learning about history. Those similarly inclined, and especially those with an interest in 19th Century theater, Shakespeare, the Booth family, Abraham Lincoln, the Civil War, the period leading up to and following it, and Lincoln’s assassination, should find a lot to absorb them in “Booth.” My thanks to NetGalley, the author, and the publisher for providing me with an ARC. The opinions expressed above are independent and my own.

you’ve hurt my feelings jente posthuma. the simplicity of this is what makes it so beautiful and melancholic.

There’s something very charming about this, despite the bleak subject matter. Told in vignettes more so than a straightforward narrative, our protagonist reflects on her twin brother’s depression and death by suicide. It reminded me of Renee Branum’s novel Defenestrate, which I also enjoyed. Some passages in here accomplish their goal of being emotional gut punches - I liked how vulnerable and raw this was. As the narrator struggles with piecing her life together in the wake of his death, we get a glimpse into her therapy sessions and increasingly fractured relationships. There are glimmers of hope and progress, but like grief, they ebb and flow. Using twins to tell this story allows for an exploration of upbringing, identity, and family from a different lens than other books on grief, which is a welcome addition. On a different day, I could see myself awarding this five stars - I flew through it, and annotated several passages that encapsulate grief so perfectly. The pop culture references feel mildly out of place (though to be fair, I seldom enjoy ‘real world’ references in fiction) but have enough thematic ties to the story it’s not egregious. I wasn’t expecting this to resonate with me as much as it did, but I can understand why it received so many acclaims. Quietly moving and beautifully written.

"By my twenty-seventh birthday, I owned 142 sweaters, and it was high time I saw a therapist." A sister tells us, in the form of short and more or less chronological vignettes, the story of the bond with her twin brother, who has committed suicide. Inseparable as children, they gradually grow apart as students, against the sister's will. The brother suffers from depression, does his best to find meaning and happiness but is less and less able to let his sister in. The jury of the International Booker calls this short novel 'deeply moving' and it's true, but not in a dramatic way. The tone is rather understated and factual, using memories that feel so real it seems autobiographical. The voice of the sister is quite unique and the way she portrays her brother is very realistic. Not all the metaphors were equally convincing though.

Grieving your gay twin, 9/11, and the Nazi Holocaust are the preoccupations of this book. It was more of a series of short vignettes. Read for women in translation month 3.5

46th book of 2024. Waterboarding, I told my mother. It's when someone places a cloth over your face, then continuously pours water over it. It feels like drowning. It is drowning. And you're going to do it, she said. Yes. My mother sighed. This has to be one of your brother's ideas. So starts What I'd Rather Not Think About, now shortlisted for this year's Man Booker International. Marketed as a book of vignettes dealing with grief, I was prepared for another sparse and disappointing read, something like last year's Western Lane. But I was pleasantly surprised by Posthuma's (come on, with a surname like that, you have to write about death) novel. The surviving twin copes with the loss of the other to suicide. Drowning, coincidentally, which makes the first few lines of the novel above even more prophetic (I'd forgotten that waterboarding is the first line of the book till I wrote them out). It's light on the touch but some of the vignettes moved me. I think about death far too often, particularly recently, and having a brother myself, found the book doubly moving. I haven't read many Dutch authors, so a nice opportunity to do so. And what are the chances? When I was at the station the other day reading this on the platform and waiting for my train, Swann, my old professor who infrequently appears in many of my reviews, appears, and we spend the journey catching up. His wife is Dutch, so he said he'd remember the writer's name and tell her about it. I wonder if he did.

this book explores the grief of an unnamed protagonist’s twin brother. The narrator shares vignettes of reminiscences of her twin brother in ways that render his character substantial. There are sentimental notes regarding her loss and although we apprehend that her brother suffered from depression, we quickly learn that in many ways these are symptoms of the protagonist as well. Regardless of the subdued tone of the novel, it is intertwined with humour that renders this novel lighter than expected. Posthuma did such an incredible job at amalgamating humour and dark themes, as well as excelling at understanding twin psychology (as a twin myself, i can confirm!!).

3.75 it was fine but oh so forgettable. finished 30 seconds ago and it’s already slipping from my memory

I wasn’t expecting to have this one near the top of my Booker list but I really enjoyed it. It is told from the perspective of a sister who is a fraternal twin and is super close to her twin brother. It is told in a very vignette style of writing and the chapters are really short, and kind of show snippets of their life together and bits of their childhood rather than acting like a traditional plotted novel. Something happens at the 70% mark of the book which completely changes the sister’s life. It tells you on the blurb but I feel like it’s kind of a spoiler because it happens so late in the book, or maybe they want you to know it’s coming. Anyway, it’s really sad and pensive. I really enjoyed the dark discussions the twins have together about the Twin Towers and other traumatic media events, and how it affects their emotional states growing up. It was written well and I’m glad it was short with short chapters as it kept the prose snappy and didn’t feel like it was ever stuck for too long. I’d recommend this one if you want something short, dark and thoughtful.

OK fans of translated fiction look sharp this translation of the Dutch author Jente Posthuma’s What I’d Rather Not Think About (translated by Sarah Timmer Harvey) is a fantastic new release that you definitely need to get onto. This is a short book that focuses on a set of fraternal twins who are never named except to acknowledge that the girl is Two and her brother who was born first is One. After a lifetime of mental health issues we find out that the brother has taken his own life when the twins are in their mid-thirties. The girl is the narrator and the story is written in vignettes which honestly might be my favourite ever literacy device. Most chapters are less than 2 pages with some only a paragraph and the stories float around in time from their early years to post the brothers death. The narrator carefully unpacks her childhood and her relationship with her brother desperate to find out where their paths diverged and to work out why he has chosen not to continue living. Each little snippet gives us a glimpse into their story. I found this book so moving despite its content. The structure has you turning the pages so quickly and it's easy to read in a couple of sittings. There are some fascinating themes that I don’t think I fully unpacked – the Twin Towers in New York (a proxy for the twins), Josef Mengele and his role in Auschwitz experimenting on twins and the perplexing but somehow comforting sweater obsession of the narrator. I have to warn readers that this book has huge trigger warnings for those who might be impacted by suicide. The brother’s death is never shied away from and constantly referred to but for me these mentions completely brought to life the inner thoughts of the narrator who is grappling with her grief and how to remember her brother. I loved this book and the only reason I’m not giving it 5 stars is because the ending just didn’t feel 100% right. But honestly this book was so great and I’d urge you to read it if you love translated fiction, vignettes as a device and complex thinking about siblings and grief. Thank you so much to @scribepub for my #gifted copy!

I was drawn to this novel because it concerns twins, although my interest was somewhat blunted by the fact that it is about fraternal rather than identical twins. Nevertheless, an interesting examination of how things play out when one twin commits suicide. How does one “get on with it”?

A quiet, contemplative book that reminds me of The Anthropologists by Aysegül Savas in terms of form and structure and A Leopard-Skin Hat by Anne Serre in terms of content and subject matter. "What I'd Rather Not Think About" follows a woman examining her past and present as she grapples with her brother's/twin's suicide. The story is not at all plot heavy and consists mostly of the narrator's reminiscences and observations of her brother throughout their lives. The chapters are more like short vignettes, and they are non-linear. The language felt very controlled and straightforward (which was a welcome change, as I just read something very verbose). I grabbed a copy of this at the bookstore, and I'm going to keep it in my physical collection.

What I’d Rather Not Think About centers around a brother’s suicide and the emotional aftermath for his sister, who happens to be his twin. This is a deeply melancholy book told in very short vignettes-some only half a page long and the longest no more than two pages. There is a certain emotionless quality to the novel that somehow makes it even more melancholy. As the back of the book says “Posthuma tells the story oof a depressive brother, viewed from the perspective of the sister who both loves and resents her twin, struggles to understand him, and misses him terribly.” I would add that she does miss him terribly, but to me at least there is something pathological in how much she misses him and for how long she acts in a slightly strange way. (she is presented as seeing a therapist, so we don’t know if she too has some emotional scars from before the time of the suicide.) In full disclosure I would add that I have never had someone close to me commit suicide so I have no idea how I would respond. I only know that there is no “right” response. Anyway, this is a sad, deeply human story about real people and real grief. There are no easy answers. Anyone triggered by suicide should not read this book. Everyone else should read it.

A quick yet tender read of a twin losing her brother to suicide and her coping (or not) with what to do when the only other person who has shared in her lifetime of memories is no longer there. The premise of this reminded me a lot of Toews’ All Amy Puny Sorrows, with both narrators feeling a sense of helplessness at their siblings’ indifference to life and the struggle between resentment and unconditional love for them. While I’d say AMPS is a bit more rounded out and written in a more traditional way that allows you to get to know the characters better, Posthuma does manage to bring these siblings to life in short vignettes and spare prose. It’s simple but effective. There are several references to the Twin Towers, Mengele and his twin experiments, and television show Survivor, explicit metaphors that work well in some places and less so in others. I don’t necessarily think it’ll be an especially memorable read, but I enjoyed it and am feeling particularly positive about it after a run of very mediocre (and just plain bad) IB books.

literally read the entire thing thinking it was a memoir until the last 20 pages. bought this in amsterdam because i wanted a book and it should be dutch if im getting it there...and honestly didn't have super high expectations but i enjoyed it! obviously was a very sad read but i thought it was interesting and had lots of strange fact thingys that i liked. i will never know the experience of being a twin but i know how to be a sister and it makes my chest hurt a bit. hayley and olivia pls dont kill urselves i would never recover. also made me reflect a lot on my own depression in the context of my sisters which makes my chest hurt in a different way. talked a lot about survivor, 9/11, and the holocaust? but didn't feel out of place. would recommend but again, it is pretty depressing. i like a vignette style book, which i think comes from my fanfic reading days....but what am i to do?!? #enjoyed

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2024. Jente Posthuma’s narrator quotes a play by Hannah van Wieringen entitled When Women Are Friends. In the play, one of the two characters said there weren’t enough stories about how to deal with life after loss. She remarks that there are many stories about murder, death, and loss, yet there are only a few stories that tell about what happens afterward, about how life continues, and how people manage to get through it together. This is what most of us would most likely experience (rather than murder cases which could make headlines on the news). Her astute observation reminds me a bit of Joan Didion’s memoir The Year of Magical Thinking, in which Didion recalls the stages of grief that followed the passing of her husband, writer John Gregory Dunne in 2009. The death came so suddenly that Didion could only react by pretending to be a “cool customer”, as though nothing happened. For some of us who are familiar with popular psychology, the five stages of grief are not an alien concept. The first stage that comes immediately with grief is denial, denying that the unfortunate circumstances ever took place, clinging to the hope that an alternative scenario could manifest itself. After that, comes anger, which can show up in many forms, ranging from outbursts to isolating oneself. Then comes bargaining, trying to postpone the inevitable, and negotiating with the voices inside our minds. And then, depression comes, with intense sadness after experiencing a loss. The last stage would be acceptance. The stages of grief could vary depending on whose theory you read, but generally, it starts with denial and ends with acceptance. The narrator is a woman in her late 30s who is grieving over the death of her twin brother. He commits suicide, riding his bike to a river on his way to do his shopping. They call each other by number. The brother, who arrives first into the world is simply referred to as One, while the narrator is Two. The brother grows up to be a confident person, a know-how, while the narrator is the one who always follows him, tagging along with him on many occasions. Despite their differing personalities, both of them are attracted to men and they remain competitive in their endeavors in life. Sometimes the brother excels, while at other times it’s the narrator who beats him. They are there for each other, just like the Twin Towers in New York. Both consider each other the most important person to each other. In recounting the flashbacks of what happened in her life until the death of her brother, the narrator frequently employs facts. She often uses metaphors and trivia, sometimes citing statistics (such as the statistics of murders and suicides, or even the fact that the height of the Twin Towers in New York differs by 2 meters despite looking identical). The way she describes her situation is consistent with how Didion reacted to her husband’s death. Both attempted to rationalize their situation and their feelings. For the narrator, the situation is exacerbated by the fact that her brother chooses to die. He commits suicide, leaving her as the sole survivor among the twins, which involves guilt on her part, as she is unable to prevent her brother’s death. Sometimes she recounts her conversations with Elza, her therapist, which contribute to some understanding of herself and about her brother’s decision. I like the fact that each chapter consists of short paragraphs, lasting only one or two pages, making this novel very realistic, mirroring everyday life when things mostly happen one thing at a time, and most instances are some results of accumulated decisions made over time. It was only through the passing of time that we realise that our recent memories no longer include the person whom we grieved over. And through the passing of time, we learn to accept separation and make peace with that.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2023 Finally: Someone trying something daring and different on this longlist! Feeney tells the story of Jamie, a neurodivergent kid on the brink of puberty, who dreams of getting to know his dead mother by building an intricate machine that allows him to connect with her. Putting aside the downright absurd focus the list puts on dead parents (because who needs political fiction in times like these?), I truly enjoyed how this particular Irish gem weaves a web of poetic references that, while not bringing back the dead, connects the living: Jamie's mother died in childbirth; he befriends fatherless Terry at school; there's fatherless Tadhg, the woodwork teacher from the islands with a dark family secret; and Tess, a motherless teacher who experiences the breakdown of her marriage, the loss of her father to alcohol addiction and the horrors of an IVF treatment. All of these characters, much like Jamie's father, who always stands up for his son, defy the standards of propriety headmaster Father Faulks sets for his school, and at the heart of book lies the question of how much a person should bend to outside standards... ...which is where the wooden boat comes in: Jamie dreams of building a perpetual motion machine, a machine that stops the chaos of destiny, "a machine for before the falling apart" which, by the standards of physics, is of course impossible - but he believes the energy of it might cross time and space to his mom. Woodwork teacher Tadhg has an idea how Jamie could fulfill his ambition in a feasible manner: He, Tess, Terry and some other students and friends want to help Jamie to build a Currach, a traditional Irish boat, which is made of wood, so a living and moving material that is bent to the vessel's shape (but not too much, or it breaks!), and floats on water, a moving element that relates to Jamie's mother who was a talented swimmer. As Tadhg explains, Currachs are always in motion, "vulnerable, but powerful", boats built by ordinary people - and sure, that's a metaphor, and it works. Even the steps in the building process relate to the characters' experiences. The point of view moves smoothly, mainly between Jamie with his perceptions that seem to convey that he is on the autism spectrum, and Tess as well as Tadhg, who develop a tender relationship. Motifs like the color red, water, boats, family, as well as the options fight vs. flight are modulated in varying situations, and the developing bonds between the different types of outsiders gradually start to remind readers of the magical bonds of friendship as displayed in the children's books of Astrid Lindgren - still, this novel is clearly aimed at adults, also pondering questions of sexual longing, the protection of children and growing up with familial trauma. This novel drew me in and kept my interest throughout, it made me root for the characters and ponder their backstories and motivations. I particularly enjoyed Tess' story line (which references The Edible Woman) that depicts the mechanisms of her marriage and the expectations she faces - and despises. I also like me a well thought out structure that is build intentionally and stringently, which Feeney delivers. This might not be a perfect novel, but it's ambitious, inventive, well composed, and captivating - which is quite a lot. It also screams for a movie adaptation.

Navigating to Her All Jamie O’Neill wants to do is to connect with the mother he lost when she died shortly after giving birth to him. He is 13 years old, neurodivergent, and only has an old online video of his mother swimming in her high school competition.Jaime is convinced he can bridge an attachment with her if he can build a perpetual motion machine. We see him on his first day at a Catholic all-boys school. He is bullied almost immediately by some of the other students, kids he only refers to as Boy One, Boy Two, etc., and is taken under the protective wing of Tess, the Additional Needs teacher. The new woodwork instructor, Tadhg, also takes an interest in him and pressures Jamie into dropping the impossible dream of the perpetual motion machine, instead arguing that the building of a boat is a good substitution– boats never stop moving. The personal lives of both Tess and Tadhg are in shambles. Her marriage is past falling apart and he is emotionally stunted and noncommittal. Inevitably and predictably, these two bond, their concern for Jaime faltering into a romance. And Jaime is the real interest in the book– how he thinks, his dependence on logic, how he struggles to unravel a puzzling and puzzled world. His desperate need to find his mother is heartrending and is the lure to pick up the book. The whole Tess and Tadhg relationship is much less compelling. The pace was a little slow and things meandered as we spent time learning the technicalities of, well… building the boat. There is, of course, the symbolic teamwork shown in the construction, how everyone rallies around to help, but this development was visible on the horizon early on. These flaws are redeemed, however, by a powerful and moving Epilogue. “How to Build a Boat” was longlisted for the prestigious Booker Prize, Elaine Feeney being one of four Irish authors in the list of thirteen titles. She has an extensive background in poetry and this is only her second novel. At one point she had a life-threatening experience with sepsis, and her 2021 novel, “As You Were,” emanated from her time as a hospital patient. This was quite a different book and, in my opinion, the stronger of the two. This is 3.5 stars floating up to 4 by the strength of its conclusion. Thank you to Harvill Secker and Edelweiss for providing a review copy in exchange for an honest review.

Quite enjoyable, although there was a bit of tedium in the middle section. But the book never truly lost its way, and it left a lasting impression on me. The two things that most stood out to me was the writing style (loved it) and the memorable cast of characters. The novel mostly tackles the themes of control, specifically when it comes to characters who are desperate to take/keep control of their own lives. The three main protagonists (Jamie/Tess/Taihg) are all struggling to maintain their identities and come to some understanding of what makes them tick and/or what attributes make them who they are. As I mentioned before, I loved the writing style; it felt fresh and jittery. And messy (just like the story it was telling). The prologue and epilogue were exceptional pieces of writing; storytelling that stirred up so many evocative emotions and images.

Perhaps there was a little bit of right book- right time in my response to this novel, but regardless, I loved this story. It’s my favourite read from the Booker longlist so far. Perhaps it’s that this is a book set in a school and that always tickles my interest. Really though, I felt this was a novel that was generous but honest about whole cast of flawed characters, in a way that captured my empathy with making this a sob story or one where the characters could completely escape a reader’s critique. It’s honest about a whole raft of challenges and road blocks that are very real in so many people’s lives, and is neither melodramatic, nor avoidant of the way these challenges impact our relationships and connections. I don’t think Feeney necessarily captures the nuanced voice of neurodiversity as well as Lloyd-Barlow in All the Little Bird Hearts- but for this reader, there was more to this novel, and so that didn’t matter so much to me.

How To Build a Boat is a contemporary Irish novel that deals with people in a community navigating lives complicated by things that have happened or are happening to them, in this case a 13 year old boy Jamie is starting college and it's clear he is being singled out by some of the mean boys (and not for his height or bright red hair). In a way it reminded me of Sebastian Barry's Old God's Time, in the sense that it relates to the power of connections in the community, the unexpected and the previously unknown, that can help pave the way towards healing and the passing through of the tumultuous hallways of grief. How can I miss someone I have never met? Jamie said. Grief was profoundly different for both humans. One felt an intense anger he had never recovered from, the other knew something was missing, a vacuum to where a mother should fit, and he had a fixed determination to fill it. Jamie's mother Noelle died post childbirth at the age of 15 and he is being raised by his young father Eoin and grandmother. He takes everything literally and is serious minded and ambitious. Jamie got it. He just didn't want to get it. Noelle had never stopped moving from the first minute he had met her on screen. She was in constant and limited motion. His one resounding ambition is to invent/create a machine that will be in perpetual motion; in his mind it will somehow allow him to remain connected to his mother, who, though he never knew her, he visualises through the one remaining video that is left of her, competing in a swimming gala. There had been hundreds of clips. Noelle laughing after school. Noelle walking in the woods. Noelle soaked to the skin on a picnic. Noelle pulling faces outside the cinema. Noelle painted like a Dalmatian at Halloween with a black-and-white hair wig. But after a rare night out with the soccer club, Eoin, angry and lonely and drunk in his small, dark living room, deleted the phone's contents. After which, he placed his phone on the laminate floor of the two-up-two-down and smashed it hard under the heel of his foot. After which, he vomited. After which, he passed out until morning when he woke frantic and pacing about with a dry mouth and a pounding headache, and in a lather of sweat and overwhelmed with the desire to disappear. But Jamie woke, crept downstairs and began asking so many questions that Eoin had no choice but to recover and get on with the getting on a young boy requires. And for years after, Eoin replayed each deleted clip in his mind before he'd fall into a fretful sleep, until the clips grew so hazy and faint and there came a time when Eoin couldn't visualise Noelle's face at all, and though he tried to (re)build it: smile, red hair, eyes, freckled nose, wide shoulders parts of her vanished until it was finally i,possible to recreate her. At the new school he encounters Tess (Mrs McMahon) the English teacher and Taigh (Mr Foley), the woodwork teacher, whose classroom has been built in what was the old swimming pool. These two are also in the midst of transition; Tess is married to Paul who has little patience or empathy for his wife's uncertainty. She has come to the end of being able to suppress her feelings and knows that running away is no longer a sustainable solution to her agitated, easily triggered mind. They were almost a decade married now and to avoid misinterpretations in the way they communicated, they had grown polite and consistent with each other. To Tess, it was as though she had catapulted. She stopped giving Paul her point of view. And Paul stopped worrying about what ailed Tess. Taigh has left the island where he was raised and keeps his distance from people, avoiding growing close to anyone while he adapts to his newfound independence. The three are connected through the school and Taigh's suggestion to Jamie that they build a currach (a traditional Irish boat with a wooden frame, over which animal skins or hides were once stretched, though now canvas is more usual). It is a school project that a number of the boys work on and commit time to, though not necessarily supported by the very traditional, linear leadership or parents with single-minded expectations of their protege. It is a heart-warming, thoughtful novel of the importance of community interactions and the power of imagination and creativity and teamwork to nurture and heal and progress the journey of everyone involved, when obstacles are removed and the way is cleared for out of the box thinking, support and the healing that can result from it.

Longlisted for this years Booker Prize, and the latest novel from Irish author, Elaine Feeney, How To Build A Boat is a gentle story about a seemingly neurodivergent kid finding his way in the world, and learning to deal with his mothers death in his own, distinctive way. Jamie is starting secondary school and is struggling with all the change happening in his world. He’s obsessed with the idea of building a perpetual motion machine that will somehow make sense of his mother’s untimely death. Step in his woodwork teacher Tadhgh who thinks building a currach may be the focus Jamie needs, aided by other classmates, and another teacher, Tess, who provides him with emotional support in a school very much designed for neurotypical students. Tess and Tadhgh have their own issues outside of the school, and there’s a lot of focus here on addiction, generational trauma, and the destructive impact of the church. I felt particularly engaged by Tess’s storyline; her marriage struggles, fertility issues, estrangement from her father, and anxiety over work all felt very real and I was really rooting for her as a character. This is a unique and captivating read. I loved the writing style and overall really enjoyed this book. I did lose interest a little bit around the middle of the story when a lot of boat jargon took over, but for me, the heart of the story is the characters, and as soon as it got back to them, I was back on board (no pun intended). Definitely worth a read, regardless of its booker nod; I think this is one a lot of people will love.

A lovely, thoughtful and ultimately uplifting read.

A happy, uplifting book on the Booker long-list! Hoorah!

This is incredibly beautiful and melancholic. Story focuses on Jamie a neurodivergent 12 year old, Tess a teacher dealing with marriage issues and Tadhg a woodwork teacher who is dealing with his own secret demons. My favourite by far was any moments that had Jamie in them, his brain works a little bit different from others so society does not accept him easily, however all he needed was for someone to listen to him and try to understand. Some moments just made me tear up while reading this. Some lovely metaphors are used to describe Jamies journey and him growing to be a bit more accepting of friendship and people. I found the story of Tess good, but a bit basic. The societal pressure of being married and having children is too much for someone who is not mentally ready for this. Her husband is a twat...

I am not sure how to explain how this book made me feel, but I know I liked it a lot. My favorite thing was showing how a teacher can make such an impact on the life of a student at any age (or how they can break a student). And how much a student can make an impact on a teacher. A student/teacher relationship is such a powerful bond.

Although I cannot say that I am completely satisfied with the ending, this book is incredibly well written and shares a captivating story. I would certainly recommend it to those looking for a quick, heartwarming read.

A lovely, moving Irish novel long-listed for the 2023 Booker. Jamie is a complicated 13-year-old, something of a prodigy but definitely on the spectrum. He’s being raised by his father and grandmother after his unwed teen mother died in childbirth. As bright as he is, he’s not well-equipped to succeed at the very conservative Catholic boys’ secondary school that he’s about to enter. Sure enough, he’s immediately targeted both by bullies and the rigid boneheaded priest who runs the school. But he also finds his champions, two teachers who have their own problems but support Jamie and steer him into a project to design and build a traditional Irish curragh. Building the boat creates an unlikely community and leads to meaningful life changes for everyone involved. Rather wise and tender.

I was struck by the beauty of this novel that portrays young Jamie, a neurodivergent teen boy entering a new all boys school along with two of his teachers that try to help him in his quest to build a Perpetual Motion Machine to connect with his mother Noelle who died shortly after he was born due to birth complications. The novel is a mix of both prose and poetry to me and I can see why it was shortlisted for many prizes. Feels kinda experimental in nature. Feeney at many points chose precise language and poetry like layouts of isolated words and phrases on the page. Where the novel fell apart a bit for me was some of the choices made around when to include other characters, and how their actions really didn’t contribute much to the plot overall. Plot felt down on the list for this novel in favor of word choice, precise imagery, and unique observations. I LOVED the cover!

I enjoyed this book. I can see why it made the Booker long list a few years back. This Irish writer, to me, creates plausible characters and scenarios that aren’t overly dramatic but that yin can’t seem to advert your eyes from. As well, the 2nd of the two main characters is an autistic 12 year old that is portrayed rather realistically, and the point of the book isn’t that he is autistic, which I appreciated. As well, the other supporting characters are nicely flushed out. This book was stormy and dark with periods of sun rays throughout. She is a talented writer.

- Sensitive people solve a lot of the world’s problems, so they’re problem solvers, ultimately - And there I was thinking my August reads were over!! This is a lovely book. To see Jamie’s progression and Tess taking command against systems inherently against them was so nice to see. The aforementioned boat was a great story too. I usually stay clear of award contenders, but I can see why this was Booker nominated. A story higher on emotion than action. I couldn’t put this down. I really enjoyed it, and would highly recommend.

4.5 - An ambitious, intelligent and beautiful science fiction novel by an author who is not afraid to take on big themes. I hope it will be on many prize lists this year (edit: it made the Booker longlist, yes!). Leigh grows up below sea level, in Rotterdam. As a promising young marine biologist she joins an expedition in the Atlantic Ocean where an extremely deep trench and chemical vent has been discovered that may contain clues about the beginnings of life on Earth. Divers develop mysterious symptoms and strange things are happening on board the ship. The expedition, surrounded by secrecy and seemingly related to a breakthrough discovery in propulsion technology, may really be a test for a deep space mission. But which company or government is behind it and what the real objectives are is kept hidden for all involved. Years later Leigh is bio-engineering microalgae as a sustainable food source and has the opportunity to join the mission, but that means choosing career over taking care of her deteriorating mother. The novel's strongest point is the balance it strikes between science and psychology. Leigh loves nature and continues to be amazed by the wonder of life on Earth. Thankfully though, she never becomes melodramatic (as Richard Powers tends to do with his characters). She loves her job, so a lot of the book is about the job (no distracting romances or little lectures about gender). This keeps it credible and intellectually interesting (although admittedly some of the science went over my head, especially since I only had an audio version) and there are eco-thriller and mystery elements to maintain the tension (and which sometimes reminded me of the new Eleanor Catton). I read part of this on audio: the narrator is excellent, but if you want to make sure you get all of the science I would go for a physical copy or e-book (I didn´t mind though).

Since 'In Ascension' will be published in the US in February 2024., I just wanted to remind everyone it's a great book. With thematic similarities to Interstellar and an atmospheric counterpart to Arrival and The Martian, In Ascension is one of the most mesmerizing books I've read. In Ascension is 500+ pages long and encompasses many different ideas and themes. Seeing many negative reviews about this book saddens me. MacInnes wrote something truly stunning and thought-provoking, but not many people can see its beauty. After moving from Rotterdam to California, Leigh leaves her unhappy childhood behind to pursue a career as a microbiologist researcher. She boards Endeavor – a ship designed to carry scientists to the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, where lies a previously discovered hydrothermal vent. Leigh is especially drawn to those peculiar underwater places as they mimic conditions where first cells could have blossomed. Things go awry on the expedition, but discovering a new deep-sea species of archaea propels the story in an unexpected direction. From the abysmal depth of the Atlantic Ocean, we are thrust into deep uncharted space. Leigh's pursuit of the origin of life forces her to abandon everyone she loves. Leigh and her crewmates' voyage into the cosmos will take them further than anyone thought possible. To me, the scope of this book is nearly indescribable. MacInnes shows us Leigh's physical journey from her flooded hometown of Rotterdam to the sunny coast of California and her mental journey escaping the trauma of parental abuse. By being further away from the place she spent her childhood in, she creates this physical barrier to her past, yet the memories remain to haunt her. The story has constant intermissions in the form of flashbacks to the instances where her father laid his hands on her and her mother's tending to her aching bones. Leigh is above average height, and her bones grew faster than average, which caused her immense pain when she was a child. At night, her mother would knead her limbs to help ease the pain. Leigh comments on how that might have been her mother's way of indirectly offering relief from the abuse. Neither her mother nor her sister ever acknowledged the abuse. In the penultimate part of the book, the POV switches to Leigh's sister, Helena, who claims the beatings were not as bad as Leigh said. Helena thinks Leigh is playing the victim card. As jarring as that switch in narrative voice is, it offers us a coup d'oeil into Helena's mind. Leigh is not a good person, and we see Helena is not either. Despite Leigh's timid characterization, she feels like a real person. Her path in life is being selfish and avoidant while obsessively focusing only on work. As her mother's health continues to deteriorate throughout the book, she persistently tells Helena and herself she doesn't have time to check up on her mother. One of this book's reviews accentuates Leigh's childhood trauma, how horrible all family members are, and the lack of a point behind the two. The reviewer claims there are no healthy counterpoints to the awful characters and no reflection on them. Writing about any trauma is unquestionably difficult. Not everyone will resonate with how you portray the abuse through characters and their inner voices. I don't think every book that includes trauma is supposed to be about healing. Sometimes people cannot heal for whatever reason. Leigh never heals. Helena heals in a way that's dismissive of her sister's abuse. There is no perfect recipe for healing from trauma. Leigh's toxic beliefs about her trauma are her way of unhealthy coping. She actively avoids seeking help. Before Leigh's journey into space, she talks with a psychologist. During that conversation, her belligerent attitude toward the psychologist's inquiry into her past is glaringly noticeable. Leigh is confident her past will not become a future problem during her stay on Nereus (the spaceship). In Ascension, a mix of sci-fi and literary genres, offers plenty of general musings on the nature of life. At times, it reads like an intellectual and profound novel. MacInnes includes a lot of technical language related to marine biology, microbiology, and later aeronautics. The biology parts were my favorite, while the ones focused on engineering were tedious to read and lessened my enjoyment. The overall pacing is slow but not dull. I started reading In Ascension while in a reading slump, and it honestly helped me regain the will to read. I kept returning to this book every day. One reason why this book resonated with me is my academic background. I am a biology major with a keen interest in biochemistry and microbiology. I, too, obsessively think about life and its many forms. Certain areas of biology seek answers to the most entrancing and complex questions, such as where life comes from. And how? But not why. I don't think there is an answer to that, but I appreciate MacInnes devoting his book to bringing awareness to the philosophical nature of scientific questions. In the fifth part, titled Nereus - after the spaceship, Leigh, Karius, and Tyler are traveling toward the Great Perhaps. The atmosphere becomes more dreamlike and surreal, but the story ultimately stagnates. Things start to fall into place. Without revealing the wondrous mystery, it is during this part that the story most resembles the movie Interstellar. The ending is abrupt, purposefully left painfully open, and unresolved. While my main issue is the lack of emotional connection to the characters and the story, I am willing to overlook it on behalf of the diverse themes. MacInnes masterfully explored the themes of isolation and connection through Leigh's character and her relationship dynamics with other characters. Another theme that emerges in the novel is Earth's ecological future and the implication of human ignorance concerning the well-being of our planet. Thank you to Netgalley and Atlantic Books for the free review copy!

If you liked Arrival, you’ll enjoy this literary sci-fi, which is as much about human relationships as it is about space exploration. I do feel like this book lagged a bit in the middle, but the beautiful, somewhat ambiguous ending made the journey more than worth it.

This is probably the most creative book I’ve read this year. The author has tons of imagination and definitely knows how to transfer it to paper. The protagonist of this story, Leigh, left her family behind mentally a while ago, and decides to devote her life instead to researching ‘life’s formation’. She ends up pioneering some research about a self-sustaining algae that is powerful enough to send her and two other crew members deep into space. The premise, environment and description are so creative and so vibrant. There were definitely lengthy technical descriptions about Leigh’s research that, in my opinion, didn’t need to be there (especially during parts 2 and 3) but I could look past these as the creativity had me hooked. What I struggled to get on board with was the emphasis on Leigh’s childhood trauma. This felt out of place, and as I was reading, I was waiting for a moment where the two storylines (Leigh’s family and her research) merged together, but it never seemed to come… Although despite this, I still found the novel really captivating. Especially parts 1 (loved the imagery of the ocean and their research boat) and 4 (MacInnes’ descriptions of the crew losing touch with reality were so immersive). Overall, there was a lot to love about this book and I would strongly recommend to anyone who is intrigued by the premise…

This book popped up as included in my Audible membership, so I went straight in. It was not what I expected, but I love to be surprised. What an extraordinary book. It is not fast paced by any means, however, I don't need a book to be. I enjoyed learning about Leigh and her slightly dysfunctional family, and even the science - one of the reasons I love Andy Weir books (except for Artemis, obvs). The setting is the near future, and we travel with Leigh to the depth of the ocean, through to outer space, learning more about Leigh's family along the way. Leigh might seem selfish, but she is doing what she was made for, for the furtherance of mankind, it's her passion. I would imagine that some readers might find this book verbose, but I really enjoyed listening to it all. Also, the narrator is great, which always helps!

Firmly in the liked but didn’t love camp with this Booker longlisted epic, and probably because I am not quite clever enough to have really ‘got’ it (at least not right now). MacInnes is doing some clever stuff in terms of playing with the science fiction genre, to present a narrative that has some significant things about our relationship with our planet, and the solar system beyond, which seemed to me at least to be a commentary about the current climate crisis at heart. There are some shut-the-front-door beautiful sequences of prose in here. Ultimately I found it a little uneven (falling away in the final space sequences) and it kept me at enough of a distance that some of the heart-stopping moments didn’t quite nail their impact. Imperfect but very clever.

This book is quite mind-blowing. The last 150-odd pages are fully deserving of 5 stars! The way MacInnes makes everything connect come the ending is beyond clever. This is a book that celebrates the wonder of life, the Earth, the seas, the universe and our place within it. I read the final chunk of the book fully enraptured. I recommend wholeheartedly to anyone who looks up at the night sky and wonders. Fully deserves to win the Booker 🤞

8.5/10 stars My full review on my blog. This Booker-longlisted novel is a highly intriguing find, a ponderous meditation on human nature, the purpose and the ambiguity of life. Slow and meandering, light on science but heavy on literary, this fiction revels in uncertainty, in circling around deep truths that remain tantalisingly just beyond our reach. I enjoyed this book very much, despite, or perhaps because of, its intentionally meditative nature. In Ascension is poetic in the sense of focusing on apparently mundane details and deriving transcendent meanings out of them. It links deep sea and deep space in a bit of admittedly thin science fiction gimmick, but what it has to say about both of them, and human place in the non-human-friendly or non-life-friendly spaces that make up a tremendous majority of our universe, is well thought-through, intellectually stimulating, and quite insightful. I won’t go into the details of the plot, which I felt were secondary to the main meditative theme of life, but which nevertheless made for an utterly engrossing read. Suffice to say, our main protagonist is a marine biologist with algae as her area of specialty. Her childhood had been difficult and formative in more ways than one; her constant, almost obsessive returns to her own beginnings, to the memories of her parents and sister, are illuminating the painstaking process in which she constructs, reconstructs, and reinforces her own self. The various paths taken in reaction to those early events lead her to a life on the edge of what is the human domain: the deep sea, and later, the deep space in which her modified algae serve as a source of food and kinship to the starfaring crew. [...] What MacInnes wrote is not your typical science fiction novel. But it is everything you should wish for in a good science fiction novel: thought-provoking, far-reaching, delivering unflinching truths about human nature. It is light on action, sure, and some readers called it boring, but to me it was fascinating in its slow, melancholy, almost elegiac way. I love how MacInnes achieves a holistic, philosophical outlook by focusing on the minute details and juxtaposing it with the unfathomability of the cosmos. Micro- and macrocosm seamlessly merge and flow one into the other, the end of life is its beginning, and the human perspective, the bewildered, grateful and fascinated appreciation of life that Leigh presents, gives the whole an emotional in for the reader. [...]

Some beautiful writing and extraordinary ideas, I loved the feelings this book evoked about life, the universe, and our place in it. I didn’t know it was science fiction going in - it was literary and about marine microbiology in the beginning - and I was startled by the arrival of space missions, but I enjoyed the speculative imaginings as much as the deep sea exploration. There are some unbelievably gorgeous passages in this book, but I found the writing a bit inconsistent, and there were long sections that dragged. The main character’s personal history and struggles didn’t really move me, for some reason. But it’s well worth a read!

interstellar fans, this one’s for us!!

Longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2024. In April 1934, Russian poet Osip Mandelstam recited his Stalin Epigram to his fellow poet Boris Pasternak. The Epigram, also known as The Kremlin Highlander, describes the climate of fear in the Soviet Union, which was only read by Mandelstam to a select few of his friends, among those are Boris Pasternak and Anna Akhmatova. Based on his wife Nadezhda Mandelstam’s 1971 memoir Hope Against Hope (translated by Max Hayward), the Epigram goes as follows. We are living, but can’t feel the land where we stay, More than ten steps away you can’t hear what we say. But if people would talk on occasion, They should mention the Kremlin Caucasian. His thick fingers are bulky and fat like live-baits, And his accurate words are as heavy as weights. Cucaracha’s moustaches are screaming, And his boot-tops are shining and gleaming. But around him a crowd of thin-necked henchmen, And he plays with the services of these half-men. Some are whistling, some meowing, some sniffing, He’s alone booming, poking and whiffing. He is forging his rules and decrees like horseshoes – Into groins, into foreheads, in eyes, and eyebrows. Every killing for him is delight, And Ossetian torso is wide. In the Epigram, some metaphors clearly signify Stalin as its subject, such as the allusion to the “Kremlin Caucasian” which refers to Stalin’s Georgian origin as well as the phrase “Ossetian torso” in the final line which refers to Stalin’s ethnicity, whose paternal grandfather was possibly an ethnic Ossetian. Following Mandelstam’s recitation, Pasternak was reported to say the following to him: “I didn’t hear this, you didn’t recite it to me, because, you know, very strange and terrible things are happening now: they’ve begun to pick people up. I’m afraid the walls have ears and perhaps even these benches on the boulevard here may be able to listen and tell tales. So let’s make out that I heard nothing.” In May 1934, Mandelstam was arrested at his home. Devastated by the news, Pasternak went immediately to the office of news agency Izvestia and made an appeal to Nikolai Bukharin, the then editor of Izvestia who still yielded high influence, to intercede on Mandelstam’s behalf, as Bukharin had acted as Mandelstam’s political protector since 1922. Soon after his meeting with Bukharin, the telephone rang in Pasternak’s apartment in Moscow. The given date was Saturday, 23 June 1934. A voice of someone calling from the Kremlin said, “Comrade Stalin wishes to speak with you.” Following the introduction by his secretary, Stalin spoke to Pasternak in a conversation that lasted three minutes and four seconds. The conversation reportedly went as follows: Stalin: Tell me, what's the gossip in your literary circles about Mandelstam's arrest? Pasternak: You know, there is no gossip, because to have gossip you have to have literary circles. But there are no literary circles because everyone is scared. Stalin: All right, then tell me your personal opinion about Mandelstam. What do you think about this poet? Pasternak: We’re different, Comrade Stalin. Stalin: So you don't know how to stand up for your friend. There the conversation ended abruptly. In a panic induced by the difficulties of understanding Stalin’s intention and the unbelievable conviction of the impossibility of the phone call having taken place, Pasternak made another attempt to reach Stalin to clarify his statement, which failed to manifest. Mandelstam remained under arrest and later spent the rest of his life in exile until his death in 1938. Ismail Kadare narrates the story from the perspective of an Albanian writer. The year was in the 1970s. Enver Hoxha was still in power, and Albania despite its adherence to communist ideology, had moved away from the Soviet sphere of influence. The narrator simply wanted to write something about the phone call, establishing facts and making some attempts to reach the conclusion of what actually took place in the conversation in those three minutes. Personally, he had a sentiment towards Russia, and particularly Moscow, as he spent his time studying there before the political split from the Soviet bloc which made Albania the last Stalinist outpost in Europe. For him, he simply wanted to write a story that takes place in Moscow. Moscow is simply a canvas for his story. What follows is something akin to what Czech playwright and former president Václav Havel describes in his 1978 political essay The Power of the Powerless. In his essay, Havel describes the nature of communist regimes of the time with their totalitarian nature and argues that the nature of such regimes can create dissidents of ordinary citizens. Havel was initially a playwright before he turned into a statesman following the unfolding of the Velvet Revolution in 1989 that toppled the communist regime in Czechoslovakia. He simply wanted to work on his art, yet the very nature of the communist regime made his art political. He suddenly found himself in confrontation with the authorities and was forced into compliance. He was arrested in May 1979 and remained imprisoned until February 1983. Similarly, our narrator in this story also faced such a moral dilemma, of him being in confrontation with the authorities. He further insinuated that such cases are not unique to Albania, for the same thing had happened in 1934 with the arrest of Mandelstam and a subsequent phone call between Stalin and Pasternak which posited some possibilities of Pasternak requesting Stalin to release Mandelstam (which didn’t materialise). From then on, our narrator describes 13 versions of the conversation that transpired between Stalin and Pasternak, originating from various accounts of different people who had interacted with Pasternak (and of course, the official state’s record by the Soviet authorities). Kadare is creative in his interpretation of the phone call and uses it as such as a canvas to describe the dilemma of being a poet (and by extension, anyone whose occupations are related to the work of art, as the Russians have an important soft spot for poetry) in a totalitarian society. I like the intertextuality of this story, with the narrator presenting 13 versions of the conversation, thereby providing readers with choices to accumulate knowledge and gain an understanding of the nature of tyrant-poet relations in a totalitarian society, as exemplified by Mandelstam’s arrest and subsequent Stalin-Pasternak phone call. The established truth remains ambivalent, particularly with the absence of testimonies by Stalin and Pasternak themselves, the conversants who had primary knowledge of what actually transpired during the phone call.

This is an intriguing book by the Albanian International Booker Prize Winner ( awarded for a body of work) Ismail Kadare. It actually focusses on Russia rather than life in Albania, as the nations were close at one time in the mid 1900s and Kadare knew Moscow well. The main premise of the book is the dissection of a 3 minute phone call from Stalin to Boris Pasternak in 1934 concerning the arrest of fellow poet/literary star Osip Mandelstam ( of whom I had shamefully never heard). The reader discovers 13 versions- first, second and third hand. However tortuous and rather unnecessary this might seem, the end result is a fascinating journey into the dynamics of the communist tyrant Stalin, the effect of terror and despotism on poets and authors and the terrible lives of their families following exiled literary geniuses into the gulags. Kadare also riffs backwards in history to the relationship of the Tzar in the mid 19th century to celebrated author Pushkin. There are many Russian cultural references, which may be unfamiliar to the 21st century anglophone reader. The absence of footnotes was actually liberating and led to my own research: Osip Mandelstram’s life and his infamous Stalin epigraph (incendiary); the life of celebrated and tragic poet Anna Akhmatova; Maxime Gorky; Boris Pasternak himself. In addition I delved into the life of Pushkin and read his own provocative Ode to Liberty. Ultimately the question is: can one defend one’s friends in an autocratic, militaristic state run by a mad murdering despot? I think it requires a very brave person. The book has set off a desire to read more Kadare; read Dr Zhivago; listen to Puskins operas- he wrote the score of Boris Gudanov; and more Russian literature.

I'll come back to this for a review later but quick note: is this really fiction? Or speculative non-fiction. Discuss?

Not entirely what I was expecting, rather than a piece of fiction, this is a debate around a well documented 3 minute telephone conversation between Stalin, and poet Pasternak. Fascinating insight into dynamics of dictatorship.

International Booker Longlist 2024 History is usually reticent regarding what happens between poets and tyrants. The truth gives way to inventions, some memorable, others forgettable This is certainly true of this interesting little novel of 12 possible phone conversations between Stalin and Pasternak (the author of Doctor Zhivago) about the fate of another Russian poet Mandelstam. Some of these alternatives are more interesting than others. Many are almost indistinguishable from each other, almost to the point of the boring details that are argued in a law court. However, it's a short book and there are plenty of gems in the writing. Glad I read it but it's unlikely to be a favourite this year.

Uncannily actual now Russia has a new strong man, and one who sees Stalin as an example. Kadare is an Albanian writer who worked during the dictatorship of Enver Hoxha and is very well known for how he puts down the feelings and uncertainties of working and living under a dictatorship. He always does this indirect, usually working with the Ottoman’s to do this to escape his critics, and here he goes to Russia. Seemingly the book is about a short telephone conversation between Stalin and the writer Boris Pasternak, and the 13 variations of this conversation that are being reported. But in fact it is about words, and their importance, when every word you say that is overheard by somebody can be used against you (and history seems to repeat itself now in Russia). When words can decide over life and death, or where you live and how good you live, they become incredibly important, far more important than they are in the West. And if you read this book like that, it changes from a bit a tedious description of a very small event into a fascinating description of the power of words, just words. A very special book.

"An image. That flashes up for a moment. And then what? Unveils its significance? Never to be seen again? Can past really be captured that way? How can you reconcile that volatility with the enormity and persistence of experience? And what is true in this shifting moment? Whose truth, whose history? I don't know. I only know that I’m tied to it. And there's always more to be said about it." Set in a poor, developmentally deficient & immigrant-heavy region in Malmö, Sweden, it is narrated by a cellist whose present good fortune is a far cry from the messy days of his childhood and youth. Each chapter is one single paragraph alternating between short, punchy sentences & long, run-on ones. There is a breathless quality granted to the narrative by stream-of-consciousness writing. Tichý moves across space-time, making allusions and associations, seamlessly connecting events to render a complex narrative: a truthful, unflattering look at perilous life in poverty and deprivation, characterized by lawlessness, rash habits, heavy drug use. The writing style is reminiscent of Hurricane Season and it takes time to get used to. Lack of clarity is a given as it is hard to figure out who's who and who's talking. There is a lot of non-linear time shuffling that one must pay attention to to notice the shifts. The prose itself is brilliant, really poetic in places due to the use of subtle rhymes. Nichola Smalley has done a commendable job. A hard-hitting, distressing book immersed in avant-garde music, it all comes full circle. It is an exploration of wretchedness, social mobility, and escape. (I am on the 2021 Booker International Shadow Panel and I was sent a finished copy by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.)

This book was so challenging but hugely rewarding. It felt like reading a monologue - the book was eight paragraphs in total, some sentences stretching across pages at a time. This was a brutal, stark exploration of poverty, drugs, immigration and a critique of "poverty porn": "do-gooders" using people's dire situations for their art and writing, which felt like a comical jibe at the reader. I loved the book, particularly the voice, the repetition which gave it a musical quality, the use of Swedish slang (also Nichola Smalley who translated this to English did a bloody incredible job!!). There were many allusions I didnt understand, but found myself gleefully googling them and being welcomed into discovering these new references (can't say I had the same glee when I was forced to do the same for T.S Eliot's the Wasteland, which I mention here as Wretchedness too bore its own Modernist qualities). There were no speech marks and so the voices of other characters merged into the narrators, meaning at times I had no idea who was speaking. Interestingly, this led to moments where 3/4 of the way in, I encountered what I thought was a twist, then on reading another author's review, I discovered my twist was actually crystal clear to them from the very beginning. I want to believe this is a result of Tichy's ingenious powers of literary deception as opposed to my own ignorance... The ending though... I found myself trailing through the book like it was an Agatha Christie novel for clues, did I like the ending? I don't know, but damn it was effective. It lost one star for me just I felt at times in the third quarter of the novel it lost some momentum and felt a little too repetitive (another winding anecdote!), but this was rescued by an intriguing ending. If you fancy a challenge with a huge pay off, 100% recommend ! In trying to describe this book, I would compare it to Trainspotting meets Mrs Dalloway meets Samuel Beckett's Endgame, if you can believe that combination.

Wretchedness by Andrzej Tichy (tr. Nichola Smalley) follows a young cellist after an encounter with a disoriented junkie leads him to look at his own past including growing up in Sweden as an immigrant and later becoming a drug. But this encounter also forces him to question his own place in society as the one who somehow made it out alive while many of his friends did not and managed to find minor success in his music. It is a challenging read, often unpleasant (*cue some cheeky line line about it being wretched*) for the content, especially the social commentary, but also the style of the prose. It is a dense stream-of-consciousness style almost mimicking the postmodern compositions by Giacinto Scelsi referenced throughout, with a cacophony of voices, thoughts, memories, and associations that by the end all come together. I'm vacillating between 3 and 4 stars for this one.

Was going to be three but I liked the ending

Nominated for the International Booker Prize 2022 Since I spent some time in São Paulo, I'm fascinated by Brazil, its history and diverse population (check out Brazil: A Biography if you want to learn more about the country) - and the people I met also told me quite a bit about racial inequality in their country, which of course takes very specific forms. Paulo Scott now tackles this topic by telling the story of two mixed-race brothers from his own home town of Porte Alegre. Federico, our narrator, is a lot lighter-skinned and a prominent advocate for racial justice in the capitol Brasilia. When he is appointed to a government commission designed to create standards for the determination of racial belonging in the context of affirmative action, his past catches up with him: His niece is arrested while carrying a weapon he and his brother Lourenço once hid in the aftermath of a deadly crime... Two storylines play out here: On the one hand, we have a family directly confronted with the reverberations of colorism and racism. The Black father was a police men, and now his sons - who often have very different attitudes due to their different experiences in the "pigmentocracy" - and his granddaughter are longing for justice in an unjust society (where Federico is also not purely a hero, as he himself knows). In flashbacks, we learn about Federico's and Lourenço's youth, their life of poverty and inequality in the 1970's, only to jump back to the narrated time, 2016, the height of the quota discussion in which the niece participated by joining student protests (Scott has been brought up working class in Porto Alegre and was involved in student politics himself). Then, we have the discussions in the commission aiming to categorize humans according to their skin color in the name of affoirmative action, which is, as Federico points out, an impossible task: If you deprive people of the right of self-declaration, you ascribe an identity to them according to their pigmentation, not their socilization and other intersectional factors; if you only count on self-declaration, white people might claim the tools that were designed to lift up non-white people. Who counts as Black, Brown, Indigenous, and to what degree? Can the factor of subjectivity be erased by using artificial intelligence, which is, by definition, non-human/inhumane? Scott challenges his readers with very long sentences that are frequently stream-of-consciousness, but often also cinematic descriptions and the reflection of discussions in an intricate stylized way. This is ambitious and takes rather long to process, but the novel is worth the effort: This is the kind of book for which I love the International Booker, a hidden gem I wouldn't have known about let alone picked up if it wasn't for the Prize. But I didn't expect anything less from a judging panel around Frank Wynne: This is great stuff. You can listen to my interview with Frank Wynne, jury president of the International Booker 2022, here.

94th book of 2022. Real good stuff. A bit depressing that this didn't even make the shortlist, when something as bad as Cursed Bunny did. This and Melchor should have made it, I think. Structurally this one is just fascinating, with so many threads that open and close before they're resolved. It feels like Scott gives us a clue or at least mentions it himself on p.168, But I have to say, she said, I don't know if I like the way you didn't let the songs end, Oh, I really don't understand why you do that, why you didn't let them end, not a one, she says, questioningly. They do end, I say, They just don't end the way whoever made the record wanted them to end. Scott, of course, wanted the chapters to end the way they do. It feels like there are all these scenes, over several decades, floating about, unfinished, but in a way finished, too. Somehow it works. The paragraphs are huge, Bernhard-sized, and the sentences are very Marquezian. Probably gets boring comparing every Latin American text to Marquez but it is there. But yeah, highly recommended, a look at contemporary Brazil, its racism, justice system, and the plight of two brothers with a black father and white mother. One of those brothers being our white passing narrator who struggles with his identity and understanding his brother's. There's a lot going on in 200 pages and somehow Scott controls almost all of it. Talent, big time. Definitely up there in the International list from this year.

Another excellent novel from the International Booker Longlist.

This was an interesting read. I just wanted more for the characters when I turned that last page. However, I did appreciate what was done in this book regarding the conversations that are had about race. The translator’s note is helpful in understanding what was achieved with this translation. Even though I was disappointed with the end, I thought this was a well rounded translated book that definitely shakes things up.

** spoiler alert ** Phenotypes by Paulo Scott, translated by Daniel Hahn, published by And Other Stories was longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2022. I read it as the monthly read for the Lancaster Litfest Online book group that started during the first Lockdown in 2020. The book, set in Porte Alegre, Brazil explores the issues of racial inequality in Brazil. It tells the story of two mixed-race brothers, one lighter and one darker skinned. On one level it is a story of family and family dynamics, on the other, it is a tale of a government commission, set up to discuss the categorisation of humans according to the colour of their skin in the name of positive discrimination or affirmative action. The novel is a challenge with extremely long sentences with many commas, some of which had to be read several times to work out the meaning. Daniel Hahn provides a translator's afterword that gives a fascinating informative account of the perils and challenges of translating. He has recently written a book about the Translation process, Catching Fire: A Translation Diary based on his experiences of translatingNever Did the Fire. Overall though quite a challenge, I enjoyed reading Phenotypes as it opened up issues in Brazilian society and culture, a country I knew very little about.

Interesting and stylistic approach of racism, ethnicities and the realities of Brazil's politics, its social movements, variations and nuances ... And as a translator myself, i admired the linguistic tour de force by translator Daniel Hahn.

Ending felt little abrupt!! Otherwise, very interesting portrayal of racial issues within Brazil specifically and how to define identity.

Set primarily in Porto Alegre the capital of the state of Rio Grande Do Sol in southern Brazil, Phenotypes is a compulsive and insightful story which looks at race relations, the justice system and the perversity of the colour hierarchy in the South American country. The narrator Federico is founder of the Global Social Forum and having long moved to the nation’s distant capital Brasilia, he is appointed to a committee by the new Brazilian Government to examine methods to reform the racial quota system in higher education. This issue is of particular interest to Federico as he is mixed race who is able to pass as a white man yet he has a younger brother, Lourenço who has a much darker appearance. Yet Federico has to drop everything when the past and the present collide for the siblings. A gun that has been used was given to Lourenço by a friend he was then asked to hide, that both brothers had forgotten about, is discovered in the presence of his teenage daughter as she returns from a public demonstration against the Government. Once back in Porto Alegre Federico encounters a range of unsavoury people ranging from a fairly inept solicitor, judiciary that are being directed politically, a police chief looking for a quid pro quo deal, some figures holding grudges from the past; and countless taxi drivers who misunderstand key aspects of the country’s political history. He starts to realise that his niece has perhaps got herself in deeper than the family initially contemplated. I found this story very enlightening, Phenotypes reveals both the fault lines between different generations and social classes both in terms of issues pertaining to race but also in terms of methods and approach to political protest. Furthermore it also shows the dubious policies of government as well as the corruption that abstracts progress not to mention the bureaucratic layers within many echelons of Brazilian authority. Phenotypes was long listed for the 2022 International Book Prize which is another indication of the quality of this book. Highly recommended! .

"American exceptionalism" is American exceptionalism. Other nations are also settler projects, have deep and spider-rooted issues with race, and have very thin lies they tell themselves to dismiss point one and two. Brazil has a not-entirely-baseless claim to being a "rainbow nation", a template for what the future without race strife will look like. And while a century-plus of miscegenation has made the black-and-white binary unhelpful, there is now a new, borderline kafka/gogol complexity and inanity to go along with the rigidity. There are other things that american readers will see and say, "wait, I thought that was our deal," like protests against police violence being handled violently, a political committee designed to divert energy from a problem instead of doing anything about the problem, a very wide-eyed and innocent reliance on technology to overcome differences instead of underline them, cross-generational questions of strategy and stridence, and intra-community questions of authenticity. The translation preserves the Brazilian vocabulary for these problems, and their specific fields of battle. The translation also preserves the rolling, capacious style of Paulo Scott; this book might have more pages than sentences. The book somewhat abruptly ends right as what might be considered a traditional plot begins to actually start to move. This is a defensible decision, as none of the societal questions instrinsic to the plot have answers, or the beginning of answers, but even so, to pull out the rug at what could be called the very beginning of a plot to make that point is overkill.

America, we are so often told, is in the midst of a "reckoning" about race. We've got our own history, and our own cultural dynamics around the subject. We've obviously all got a whole bunch of work to do, on both left and right. Phenotypes was fascinating, because it pulls the eye of the reader into an entirely different cultural and linguistic framework around race. It's a Brazilian work, revolving around a Black (but light skinned) activist called to work on a government committee considering race quotas at universities. The book is kinda sorta about that. It's more about the complex dynamics of race in a nation that is both radically blended and still struggling with race. It's about the relationships within a family where one brother is "brown," the other "yellow," and where race is always subtly present. It's a fascinating read, with a few caveats. The translation into English is excellent, but...and this is likely a lingering conceit from the Portuguese editions...the formatting makes reading a wee bit of a struggle. There are no quotation marks, and nothing meaningfully to separate dialogue from the larger text. The text is mostly a single, solid mass...which means parsing your way through conversational exchanges is kind of a pain in the tushie. Wait, who said that? Is this a new speaker? All very li-tah-rary, to be sure, but still. Readability isn't a trivial thing. It's nowhere near as bad as Joyce, at least. A three point nine.

This book was written in a style that always gives me a great deal of difficulty. There are run-on sentences, paragraphs that go on for pages, unusual punctuation and capitalization, and dialogue embedded within a paragraph without any punctuation. Nevertheless, this was a fascinating book. This translation gives English speaking readers a glimpse of Brazilian style racism and it is impossible not to compare it to American racism. It gives lie to the Brazilian myth of a post-racial society. The main character has a Black father and white mother and presents as white. Perhaps due to this background, he fights against the racism in society, serving in NGOs and at the beginning of the book, serving on a government commission looking at racial quotas in college admissions. (I hope that this section on the commission is satirical!). His brother is very dark. A long ago incident has implications in the present day and the white brother returns to his home in Porto Alegre to help his brother and his brother's daughter. There is a hint of romance and a more than a hint of the corruption and chaos in Brazilian society and government. I imagine I will be thinking about this book for a long time to come.

Wow, that was a crazy, unstoppable ride! I am still feeling dizzy. The first thing you notice in Case Study is the gripping thriller-like, undercover façade. You enter it and almost immediately discover there is much more. It is also a meditation on how multifaceted and complex we are, how eager to wear masks in order to deceive others and ourselves. Not accidentally the protagonist hears the song lyrics I’m a great pretender at some point. According to Graeme Macrae Burnet, we have a choice: being nothing or being several. This polyphony of human nature is deftly reflected in the structure of the book which combines a novel, a diary and a biography, and on a linguistic level also — the differences in the narrators’ styles are striking. The way the author captured the zeitgeist of the sixties is remarkable. Another thing I enjoyed immensely was Burnet’s playful distance and his dark, biting humour which just hit the spot for me. I think the bleakness of the author's philosophical constatations would have been pretty unbearable without his hilarious irony. I loved all the literary allusions also. Besides books mentioned in Case Study straightforward, my intrusive associations were The Magus and Cassandra at the Wedding . Is Case Study ambitious and original enough to win the Booker Prize? Not so sure but I am glad it made it to the longlist, otherwise I might not have heard of it. Just a little final warning: the female narrator's (no name on purpose here) voice is so highly addictive that getting it out of your head might be a challenge: I have just started another book with a supposedly brilliant, funny narrator and instead of enjoying her eloquence, I obsessively keep recalling the protagonist of Case Study. Stefano Bonazzi, Undecided.

Graeme Macrae Burnet has delivered an oddly fascinating book in “Case Study” which will have you trying to keep things balanced as you strive to lock down what is real. This is a book of fiction… probably. The characters are fabrications… probably. The narrators are reliable…well, not really. And so it goes. “GMB” has contemplated writing a biography of Collins Braithwaite, a flakey, flamboyant psychoanalyst who was once the toast of 1960’s London. Braithwaite could boast celebrity clients and anti-psychiatric best-selling books with titles of “Untherapy” and “Kill Your Self.” One day GMB is presented with journals of an unnamed woman whose mission was to prove Braithwaite’s direct responsibility for the suicide of her sister, Veronica. This woman’s strategy was to become a patient under an assumed name, Rebecca Whyte, with a completely different identity– this so she could avoid any connection to her late sister. We see Braithwaite for the cad he is. He is cruel to women, dangerous and manipulative with the lives of those who put their trust in him. Meanwhile we see the created character of Rebecca, who began merely as a cloaking device, evolving into a “self” fulfilling needs her original personality craves and has never allowed herself to indulge. “Case Study” poses a number of questions regarding psychiatry and the search for one’s true “self,” but keeps you off-guard with unreliable sources throughout. Its humor and utterly original characters earned it a spot on the Longlist for the 2022 Booker Prize. Highly recommended. “‘But what’s the point in being someone you’re not?’ I said. ‘What’s the point in being whoever it is you think you are?’” – Unnamed… or, was that Rebecca? Thank you to Biblioasis and Edelweiss for providing an advance reader copy in exchange for an honest review.

For me the star rating lands somewhere between a 4 and a 4.5. The full post is here: https://www.readingavidly.com/2022/08... I bought Case Study long before the announcement that it had been selected for this year's Booker Prize longlist, and like the vast majority of books that come into this house, I shelved it and promptly moved on to something else. That was October of last year; last week's above-mentioned announcement reminded me that it has just been sitting there and maybe it was time to read it, not because it landed on the longlist but because I've really enjoyed Graeme Macrae Burnet's previous novels. As was the case in those books, Case Study blurs the lines between fact and fiction, so much so this time around that I found myself spending way too much time doing google searches while reading. Set in 1960s England, Case Study unfolds in two parallel narratives, beginning with the author's ("GMB") receipt of an email from a Martin Grey in Clacton-on-Sea. As revealed in the Preface, in Glasgow's "notoriously chaotic Voltaire and Rousseau bookshop," "GMB" had run across a copy of a book written by Collins Braithwaite, who'd made an impression as "something of an enfant terrible" among those in the "so-called anti-psychiatry movement" of the 1960s. The book, Untherapy, described by GMB as "salacious, iconoclastic and compelling," collected case studies; Grey's email turned what was at first an interest in Braithwaite on GMB's part into a "properly aroused" curiosity. Grey explained that he had learned about GMB's interest in Braithwaite after reading a blog post GMB had written; he then claimed to have come into possession of a series of notebooks written by his cousin containing "certain allegations about Braithwaite" that GMB might like to read. At first refusing, GMB ultimately accepted the offer and the notebooks were sent to him. He was still not convinced, but after expressing his skepticism to Grey, he decided that since the notebooks "dovetailed" with his own research "it seemed too apposite to resist." The result is Case Study, which alternates between the content of the notebooks and GMB's biography of Collins Braithwaite. The author of the notebooks, as GMB discovers, is a young, unnamed woman whose sister Veronica, she was convinced, committed suicide two years earlier after several sessions with Braithwaite. After reading the psychologist's Untherapy and although he'd changed his patients' names, she discovered more than one link between a particular "Dorothy" and her sister. She'd thought she might go to the police, but realizing she had nothing to offer them, she decided instead to go directly to Braithwaite himself. As she says at one point, "Suicides make Miss Marples of us all," and eager to learn more about Braithwaite, her sister and the method "in Dr. Braithwaite's apparent madness," she decided that the only way to find out more about this man was to make an appointment with him. Realizing she can't go in as Veronica's sister, she took on another persona, an alter-ego if you will -- Rebecca Smyth -- who is quite literally everything our unnamed notebook writer is not and has gone forth with her mission in a quite naïve fashion, not knowing quite what to expect. Alongside the story, as the dustjacket cover notes reveal, the author brings out themes dealing with "the nature of sanity, identity and truth itself." More importantly, the idea of what actually constitutes a self runs throughout the book, with ongoing references to topics including doppelgangers and the notion of private vs. public persona. Despite the seriousness of these ideas, there are also some wickedly funny moments to be found here, and the ending found in the postscript was for me one of those rare out-loud "wtf" moments. I had great fun with this book, especially in trying to figure out what was real and what was fiction, which wasn't always easy, but this is the sort of out-there novel I tend to enjoy. Confession time: I admit that it wasn't too long into the book that I started googling Collins Braithwaite, and from what other readers have to say about this book, I wasn't alone. Case Study is cleverly constructed, very well written, and for me, insightful, but above all it was highly entertaining. It's a book I can certainly recommend with no hesitation.

??? Brilliant and befuddling, a slow descent into the madness of self and attempting to grasp one's elusive identity as told through the eyes of two mentally ill characters. At least, I think that's what I read? This novel was so utterly compelling that I was glued to the pages with morbid curiosity, both loving and hating it at the same time. There is more than one unreliable narrator, and the only sane glimpses are from outsiders looking in, but since they are still told from these two narrators' POV, perspectives are constantly muddled. Yet, that's the whole point. First off, the question of "Rebecca"...is she simply pretending to pose as an alter ego when meeting with a charlatan psychiatrist to discover if he was responsible for his sister's suicide, or was she the Divided Self of a dissociative identity aka multiple personality? What was real? Rebecca meets and interacts with several men, but I honestly don't know if they were hallucinations or her warped sense of reality. Still, her explanation of wanting to act differently than the prison of her own making is actually a very freeing thought - there's always a part of us that wishes we could just act like an anonymous other for a day and be someone that we simply don't have the courage to be. So, I enjoyed this because I felt like I was living vicariously through her. But then, she has a total mental breakdown, and I realize I don't really want that persona all that much. Second, was the charlatan psychiatrist Braithwaite a full-on narcissistic con man or truly brilliant mad scientist? Burnet uses notebooks dropped into his lap and fleshes out Collins Braithwaite based on what he had scribbled and books that he wrote, piecing together pieces of a puzzle that are probably more bizarre than the actual truth. I suppose Braithwaite's character is part fiction/part truth, though I'm not sure which is which. Granted, Burnet inserts many sexual overtones which has always been the main focus of psychoanalysis, so things get unapologetically a bit spicy here and horrifically unethical for a therapist. If you want to stay away from some graphic scenes, suffice it to say this may not be for you. Nothing in this book, even from the first line, is as it seems, and honestly reminds me a bit of Plath's The Bell Jar with its dark undertones and mix of mental illness that is pervasive throughout but yet seems also so lucid and clear that I have no idea what to think anymore. This is one of the few books that I started to reread immediately to catch all the nuances and layers that I am certain I missed. I completely understand why this earned the Booker Prize, and I will certainly look out for Burnet in the future.

Still not sure I understand what I just read but I enjoyed the process.

‘Towards the end of 2019 I received an email from a Martin Grey of Clacton-on-Sea.’ After writing a blog post about the now forgotten and disgraced 1960s psychotherapist, Collins Braithwaite, the author receives an email from Martin Grey. Mr Grey has a series of notebooks written by his cousin which he considers might form the basis of an interesting book. While the author’s initial response is to decline, Mr Grey believes that there are certain allegations in the notebook which might interest him. The author had been contemplating a biography of Braithwaite but had received little enthusiasm thus far. The author receives five notebooks which he read in a day. The notebooks, written in 1965, allege criminal malpractice by Braithwaite. And so, the story begins. The diarist, a young woman, is convinced that Dr Braithwaite killed her sister Veronica two years earlier. Veronica had been consulting Dr Braithwaite and the diarist believes he is responsible for Veronica taking her own life. The diarist has read a case study in Braithwaite’s book ‘Untherapy’, ad is convinced the patient described is her sister Veronica. She assumes an alter ego, Rebecca Smyth, and presents as a client in Dr Braithwaite’s rooms. Macrae Burnet takes us on an interesting journey through a maze of delusions, secrets, and questions about identity. Braithwaite is egotistical and unlikeable while the diarist starts to assume (for real) the deeply troubled Rebecca she has chosen to present to Braithwaite. ‘She sometimes seemed to forget that without me she would not even exist, but (for once) we were getting on, it did not seem wise to remind her of this.’ References to the psychiatry practiced by R.D. Laing help ground this novel in the 1960s. The (is he fictional, or simply representative?) Braithwaite is jealous of Laing and Laing is contemptuous of him. The novel shifts between biographical details of Braithwaite and the five notebooks. What is real? What happens to the diarist? Braithwaite is a dangerous charlatan, and his end should come as no surprise — fiction can be wonderful sometimes. Once again, Macrae Burnett creates a story that feels so real that I want more information about Braithwaite. But I also want to know what happened to the diarist. I was intrigued by the story, fascinated by the characters, and finished the novel wanting (but not needing) more. Note: My thanks to NetGalley and Text Publishing for providing me with a free electronic copy of this book for review purposes. Jennifer Cameron-Smith

'Nobody knows the subterranean lives of families'. Lying amid the stark, desolate surroundings of Monaro, is a place of quiet stillness: a cloistered community of nuns. Drawn to this austere, tranquility, so near to the town of her childhood, is a woman who has deliberately decided to delete her previous city life: her husband, friends, and job, 'I had a need, an animal need, to find a place I had never been but which was still, in some undeniable way, my home'. Being so near her old childhood home increasingly challenges her memories and beliefs. They erupt and multiply as drastically as the plague of mice invading their home and town, 'The mouse plague is infecting everything now: all sense of smell, of course, but even sound, even memory'. 'Stone Yard Devotional', is a contemplative story related in a series of short paragraphs, filled with reflection and wondering. The reader is never properly introduced to the main character, her name is never given and her past is only revealed in glimpses throughout. There really is no beginning and there is no end. However, the anonymity of the MC allows the reader to read the thoughts as their own. For me, it was the musing that made this story compelling. I have never read any of Charlotte Wood's previous books, but I did enjoy the desolation, the reflections, and the ruminations in this book. Overall, a compelling, contemporary book.

Watch out for this one. If there is one book that can take this year's Booker from Percival Everett's James, this is the one.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2024 I'm glad I went back to the audiobook and put aside my apprehension that this would be a s0-called "spiritual" novel. The Booker Prize longlisting of this short novel convinced me I should give it another chance. A middle-aged, childless woman leaves her job, interests, city life, her dying marriage, and moves close to where she grew up, in a small town. She somehow manages to move into a small Catholic monastery, inhabited by nuns. Interestingly enough, the narrator is not religious. The life is simple, preoccupied with survival, domesticity, and rituals. There's a horrendous mouse plague that lasts years (based on real-life events). Also, there is a famous nun coming to live at the monastery. Wood weaved seamlessly between the daily grind and the past, with little snippets of moments and events, showing how memory is so strange, certain seemingly small things we remember for decades. The back-and-forth examines life, sorrow, guilt, grief. The marriage and the relationships with men are brushed over, they're not analysed in great detail, which I guess is fair enough, I appreciate the author's choice of not centrering men in the character's life. This is a quiet, navel-gazing kind of novel that will appeal to some more than others. My appreciation of this novel was greatly enhaced by Ailsa Piper's beautiful narration.

Longlisted for the 2024 Booker Prize. For me this is a dark, ambiguous novel. Exploring the themes of grief and our own mortality. The narrator and protagonist of this novel is never named but you get a strong feeling that this narrator is the author or at least a vehicle used to express the author’s memories and experiences. We never truly find out why the narrator has left her husband, her job, her very way of life, and retreated to a religious community of nuns in the role of an oblate (I had to look up what an oblate is 😊). It cannot be for religious belief because she is an atheist. While not moving for religious reasons, it seems she may have moved for spiritual calmness and contemplation, enveloped in the nun’s world of prayer and routine. A way to stop and take stock of her life. Not long after the move, the nunnery is besieged by a plague of mice. This plague succeeds in creating a horrible claustrophobic atmosphere. As time passes the mice increase in number and eventually encroach on almost every facet of life for the community. I am not sure what this plague is meant to represent, if anything at all. I believe that Wood wrote this during the Covid pandemic, and the novel is set during this pandemic, so perhaps the plague is a representation of her feelings at the time. Or maybe they represent us, devouring everything in their path as they multiply uncontrollably trying to satiate an equally uncontrollable lust. Wood never lets the reader become bored, a distinct possibility with the setting, but fills the narrative with memories and flashbacks of the narrator’s life. She contemplates about the losses she has endured and the resulting grief. Meanwhile, the world outside the narrator’s thoughts is eventful. There is the mice plague, there is the arrival of a nun who turns out to be a woman that the narrator and friends bullied while at school. As you can imagine this nun adds to the narrator’s thoughts, primarily grief and guilt. No relationships are developed between the narrator and the nuns this book is very much about the narrator and her thoughts, memories, grief, reflection and contemplation.

Review to come, but for now: This started off very strong; middle was muddled; end section was great. Wish the whole book was like Part 1 and 3. But anyway, here’s a great quote for now: “But still, it has surprised me, over the years, to discover how many people find the idea of habitual kindness to be somehow suspect: a mask or a lie.”

(Book 4 of my Journey through the booker prize longlist ) 4.75 ⭐️ When I saw that the booker prize longlist came out I decided to challenge myself to read as much as I can before the shortlist was decided, I find it so exciting to be able to try and predict the winner, however; since there is 13 books on the longlist I know I will not be able to get through them all & I had to prioritise the books I think sound the most intriguing… along comes an Australian book Stone Yard Devotional “To find my parents, I had to recall the cold, unsheltered feeling I had - physically, I mean - at each of their funerals. There had been the sensation of too much space around me there, at the place where my father, then later my mother, were sent into their adjacent shafts of opened earth. (It seemed callous to me back then to lower a person into a hole in the ground using ropes and cords instead of arms)” Stone Yard Devotional was BRILLIANT. A story about a woman as she turns her back on her marriage and her life in Sydney and retreats to her hometown, where she resides with a group of catholic nuns. During the peak of covid she navigates her days introspectively and routinely. Doing chores and blending into the nuns daily structure, so much so she starts to just slowly fade and accept her new life, when suddenly a mouse plague infests the town. I can’t begin to tell you how incredibly captivated I was at this novel. The way it was written was so beautiful, with overall themes being grief and isolation. Following this main character as she just goes about her day to day duties, having to fight off the mice that plague her town, the exhaustion and dread of hearing them in the walls, never leaving. Seeing faces from her childhood and having to deal with old wounds and memories. Grappling with the grief of her parent’s death and the abandonment of her marriage, incredible! I finished this in 2 days. There isn’t a huge amount of plot, which seems to be the case with the past few books that I’ve read in the Booker prize longlist, such as Headshot & Orbital. Written like a diary, with an unnamed main character, I felt still incredibly connected and involved in this story. A great representation of Australian writing, from the first page until the end I loved it.

I read this book quickly. It’s meditative and moody and I found myself going with the lack of explanations. It’s a book about forgiveness, death, memory, loss and despair which sounds really grim but it was quite a beautiful read. The narrator goes to stay with a small community of nuns even though she says she’s an atheist. Initially she visits for a five day retreat then returns to stay. She reveals some background to her life, that she’s broken up with her husband, that her parents died when she was young and some stories of her childhood and that she worked at a threatened species rescue centre. There’s a bit more to the story (like a mouse plague!) but I don’t think it’s a plot really. Strangely I didn’t mind, perhaps the reflections on life and the world just fit my own mood.

Our unnamed narrator has retreated from her marriage and engagement with society and the environmental issues that filled her life, to a small religious order near the rural Australian community in NSW where she grew up. She is not religious, she doesn't pray, and the order does not have a "mission" such as nursing or teaching, so her days are filled just with quietly living, entering chapel every couple of hours, cooking and eating. The reader is left unsure about how her despair could have been so deep to drive her to this, but here she is. Shift to years later amid the Covid pandemic, and three events happen: the body of a missing nun of the order who went to Thailand to help exploited women is found, a celebrity nun of the order whom our narrator knew as a school girl is bringing her "home" for burial, and a plague of mice caused by drought has risen, with which the nuns and the whole area have to contend. This is a quiet story as you'd expect from the title, and the narrator's emotional life is not, what word is right, bounteous, but she's willing to give everyone the benefit of the doubt, generous enough to suspend judgment and assume good intentions of others, and humble in remembering her own failings or transgressions and not repeat them. Her life has become gentle and almost admirable, though personally I wouldn't appreciate the ultra processed foods the nuns bulk buy. It's not a utopian ideal, but it suits her and helps her go on. Living through a literary plague of mice certainly makes me hope I never have to live through one. What we are going to have to cope with due to climate change might be worse. There's a warning for us.

turns out i read this in one sitting too. a stunning mediation on life, loss, grief and trying to make sense of it all

Like a good number of the novels on this year’s Booker Longlist, the theme of spirituality features. Stone Yard Devotional does veer in this territory, It also be the more extreme one on the list. The book’s narrator goes to a convent as part of a retreat. She ends up feeling secure and moves in, despite being an atheist. There, she commits to chores. Then three things happen: The first is a plague of mice. The second is that the bones of a murdered nun are discovered and will be shipped to the convent. The third is that the person accompanying the bones is a person from the narrator’s childhood, and the memories of her aren’t particularly good. I would say that fourth is COVID-19 but I’m guessing the book takes place during the third lockdown where things eased up slightly. With all these happenings, the narrator feels existential dread but then this morphs into an exploration into grief, which is the book’s main theme. If I made this sound messy, it isn’t. Stone Yard Devotional is a quietly profound book which throws some surprises along the way. From spirituality to horror, the book throws a lot of things at a relentless pace. Oh and if you want someone to write a horrific mouse plague, Charlotte Wood is your person.

3.5 rtc. i’m writing a substack post on my thoughts on the booker shortlist & i have one book left…..so stay tuned

“All that was needed was time, and nature. Anything that had lived could make itself useful, become nourishment in death”. Stone Yard Devotional was complex and profound. This is a story about a woman who turned her back on her life in Sydney. She is drained, emotionally spent. She retreats to her childhood town, and seeks solace and a home among a group of Catholic nuns. She picks up the traditions of the nuns, even though she is not there to join the order. The rituals and traditions become second nature, like a structure that she was missing in her life, to reorder her thoughts and provide a space to contemplate and ask questions herself. “Visitant: a guest or visitor like Helen Parry, or a supernatural being, an apparition, like a saint. Like a delivery of bones, like a plague.” The mouse plague was a fascinating element to this book. It provoked anxiety, dread, panic: exhaustion. Different characters had different reactions; some resilient, and for others, it was the last straw. The fact that the mice stayed away from the ‘good room” had a miraculous or divine reverence about it. We are taken back to the woman’s childhood, and reminisce about her mother and school years. Observations and questions of the past permeate the present. We are privy to the woman’s thoughts, and what she is trying to unpack in her mind, and the whole process of how the unpacking is unfolding; almost like it was trying to break the fourth wall. I felt a sense of soundlessness and deliberation as the woman walked through the property owned by the nuns. Yet it was not entirely a monastic life: there was a renouncement of the outside world, yet so much conflict in adopting a devotion to the spiritual soul. It is hard, and that is right to be so; sacrifice is never easy. Thank you to #allenandunwin and #netgalley for the #gifted copy to read.

The unnamed narrator retreats once a year to a cloistered order of Catholic nuns located on the outskirts of the rural town in which she grew up. One year she decides to stay on. When the novel opens she has been living there for four years. She has abandoned her husband, her job, her home and her friends with no explanation, completely disconnecting herself from everything that was her life. She is an atheist, she doesn’t join the order but she forms a part of it. She is one of them. She follows the rituals and the routine of the nuns and finds solace in the physical labor and in the religious rituals of the place. Her retreat from the onslaught of life has given her a certain contentment although as we follow her stream of consciousness, she is very far from peaceful. This orderly and routine life is interrupted by three intrusions that breach the balance of the cloister and create havoc: The body of a nun of their order who was murdered while on a mission abroad is brought back for burial; Helen, a nun who is a global climate activist, is stranded at the cloister due to pandemic restrictions. She too grew up in the narrator’s home town and they share a troubled history. She carries out her mission not by retreating from the world as do the cloistered nuns, but by challenging it; The cloister and its surroundings are assailed by mice and it becomes a plague of epic biblical proportions. Throughout we are in the narrator’s consciousness as she reflects on her life, her choices and her relationships. Her retreat from life has given her the ability to take a critical look at it and to confront her actions and choices. We follow her on this journey of hers. Describing it seems banal but it's far from it. It completely works and it’s a well worthwhile read.

3.5 stars This 2024 Booker-shortlisted novel has been on my shelf for a while, and it turned out to be exactly the quiet, contemplative book it promises to be—sometimes to its benefit, sometimes to its detriment. The story follows an unnamed female character, possibly in her middle years, seeking refuge in a remote Australian convent. She’s wanting to retreat into the quiet rituals of the cloistered nuns. Wood’s writing is undeniably beautiful— spare, meditative, almost cleansing. Our narrator is not a believer, yet lives among nuns for four years. She finds solace in cooking and gardening, slipping into the abbey’s rhythms without looking for any type of spiritual awakening. But the tranquility is interrupted by unsettling events: the murder of Sister Jenny, a nun who worked with abused women in Thailand; the gruesome mouse plague sweeping the convent; and the return of Sister Helen Parry, an environmental activist/ heroine who the narrator knew from school. Helen Parry’s presence reminds the narrator that she was quite cruel to her back then and tries to atone. These quiet disturbances push the story forward. The novel’s stillness is deliberate, told through her words, and also reflects on the past. Then there are some fragmented stories that seep through. At times I didn’t feel fully engaged, but I personally connected to some of what she was going through. There are themes of grief, guilt, the climate crisis, and our obligations to one another linger. The atmosphere is serene, and the emotional weight is mostly subtle rather than sweeping. There are no big stakes here, no dramatic revelations, just a gentle nudge to look inward and perhaps connect with a protagonist whose hurts and regrets are relatable. It’s a book that may resonate more deeply if you’ve lived a bit.

I was not a fan of Wood’s ‘The Natural Way of Things’. The writing made me angry and I felt I’d been betrayed by hearing it was a strong feminist novel when I found it to be filled with anything but. So I went into Stone Yard Devotional with a little trepidation. But I am so glad I gave it a go. The unnamed narrator leaves her city life and husband and returns to the town she grew up in, moving onto a remote nunnery on the outskirts of the country town Monaro. There she reflects on loss, forgiveness, and what’s important in life. If you’re expecting much to happen beyond this you’d be disappointed but honestly it was the sparseness of the plot and the depth of thoughts that made this book utterly compelling. It was a beautiful contemporary literary novel. 4.5 stars.

The mice! Egads, not just one or 101. Thousands of mice. If you see your way past them, you will find some quiet wisdom in these pages. It’s funny. I never know I’m in need of contemplative fiction or memoirs until I find my way there and contentment flows out of the pages for me. The voice in these pages is so real that I had to remind myself it is literary fiction. If you need to slow your boat for a few days this may be the perfect read to do that for you.

truly wonderful! paced so well and i loved my reading experience. overall it’s missing something for me personally, but i’ll read any book about an atheist nun (awesome) and i definitely would check out more of charlotte wood’s books in the future!

Who hasn’t dreamed of walking out on their life and leaving all their responsibilities behind to go and join a nunnery….! I really enjoyed this quiet, thoughtful novel. But it does follow the current trend of stopping rather than ending.

Still not entirely sure what it’s about, but loved the slow rocking rhythm of it all. Feeling soothed.

went into the book with reviews of loved it and hated it so wasn't sure what to expect. thought it was very well paced and a great build up, i was satisfied at the end but also completely unsatisfied. exclusively read this while in the tasmanian wilderness, picture snuggled into a sleeping bag before bed, picture sunrise over dolerite cliffs. definitely hard not to enjoy a book here. also strongly feel the nun life is very similar to park ranger life. similar non linear structure to theory and practice but less essay-ey, which i think made me enjoy it more. love an aussie landscape. she kept talking about her dreams and all i wanted was her dream explanation book (gift idea!)

I’ll have me some southern fried catfish while I review this gritty story with some white trailer trash folk in the upside down backwards county of Money, Mississippi. A murder or two or three. 2 men. One white, one black. Except the same black man disappears who was thought to be dead at another murder scene with a white man. Say what?! Other similar gruesome murders are happening around the country. Appears karma is kicking in for decades earlier hate crimes. The story is shockingly rudimentary- the racial discrimination -but not so surprising. Mississippi has been backwards for decades. I did chuckle a few times at the absurdity of the language. White cops, the stereotypical ones, from down south, who don’t know their sister from their mama. Neither does the community for that matter. A story with genuine quirkiness threaded throughout the heaviness of white supremacy and the horrific history of lynching. This was one badass read! 4⭐️

Welp, I sure didn't have "hysterically funny page-turner about the legacy of lynching" on my 2022 GoodReads Bingo Card. Love it or hate it, I guarantee you'll never read anything else quite like it. On the surface, it's a deadpan detective story about two Black MBI agents (Mississippi Bureau of Investigation) investigating a series of shocking, grisly murders that seem to be targeting the closest living relatives of the white men who lynched Emmett Till in 1955. But don't let that fast-paced simplicity fool you. Percival Everett has masterfully constructed a smart, sophisticated, satirical genre mashup that will have you snort-laughing one minute and choking back angry sobs the next. "History is a motherfucker," one of the novel's main characters observes at one point, and that might as well be the subtitle for this book. Everett doesn't let his readers forget for one second that we aren't even ONE GENERATION removed from the horrific lynchings of Emmett Till and thousands of other Black males just like him. Carolyn Bryant Donham, the white woman whose false accusation against Emmett Till led directly to his horrific murder, remains ALIVE and UNPUNISHED as I write this review in 2022. Everett's first manuscript of this novel was completed BEFORE George Floyd and Ahmaud Arbery. I started reading this within a month of President Biden signing into law the Emmett Till Anti-Lynching Act, our country's FIRST federal law making lynching a federal hate crime. And just within this past week, we collectively witnessed on the news yet another nauseating video of a young, unarmed Black man (Patrick Lyoya) pinned to the ground and shot point-blank in the back of his head by a white policeman. Like Faulkner famously said, "The past is never dead. It's not even past." And every smug conservative pundit and pandering Republican politician attempting to dismiss and downplay America's legacy of racial violence as "ancient history" can go fuck themselves with a pineapple. How do we confront, comprehend, and begin any kind of healing from this national trauma when over half our country's population refuses to acknowledge or even allow their children to learn that these monstrous crimes even happened? Everett tackles these challenging questions and offers up this slapstick revenge fantasy as a kind of semi-cathartic response. Sure, it's often side-splittingly funny, but there are also many moments of quiet pathos and deep, seething rage. I thought the pacing started to lag a bit near the end, and I felt a bit conflicted about Everett's choice to reduce all of the racist white characters to stereotypical rednecks and buffoonish cartoons. I mean, I get it. Racism is nothing if not laughably absurd and outrageously stupid. And Everett definitely mines plenty of rich comedic material from these self-declared ambassadors of the "superior" white race. (My personal favorite was the wife who switches from using the actual n-word to politely saying "the n-word" when she learns about her husband's long-hidden African-American ancestry.) But racism is also insidious and systemic and takes on many forms far more dangerous and deadly than the clownish Tr***p Rally stereotypes paraded across these pages. I think I know what Everett's aiming for here, and it's brilliant, in theory at least. I'm just not entirely convinced it's always the most honest or effective approach.

I'm not exactly sure about the ending and what it revealed, regardless, this book was a hoot, a genre-bending, imaginative tale of delayed revenge and an amusing, and obviously politically incorrect, takedown of Mississippians and other people in most of the Bible Belt states. Something tells me Everett is not going to do any book signings in bookshops in those states. :-) Given its language, I initially thought the novel was set sometime before the 70s, to realise that it was contemporary. I found myself cackling several times. Arguably, this punches down, I'll let it pass, given those states' racist history (and present), Everett and other people of colour should be forgiven for having revenge fantasies. There's plenty of sarcasm, observational, situational and language-based humour. And a lot of crimes, gruesome and weird; they also involved a lot of testicles being removed, which can be interpreted in many ways, not to mention it's an opportunity for some cheap jokes, which I found funny anyway. I am not too proud about it, but it is what it is, pardon the cliche. Speaking of cliches, this novel plays with cliches and stereotypes and takes them to another level. In case you've managed to keep up with my ramblings, would you believe me if I told you that this novel is basically about the lynching of people of colour in America? I probably wouldn't have been able to read this book had it been written in a classical, linear, strait forward way. The humour, the ridiculousness of situations, the absurd and the improbable kept me guessing, while it also amused and delighted me. What else? Oh, the novel is short and dialogue-rich. The Trees has some of the most well-written, natural-sounding dialogue I've come across. I would be remiss not to mention Bill Andrew Quinn, the narrator of this novel, who was outstanding. Yet again, if it hadn't been for the Booker and a few other awards, I wouldn't have come across this title, or the one I read before this, both of them, incredibly accomplished novels for different reasons. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED

This is a very funny book. You will laugh until it hurts, and then you will cry because lynching is no laughing matter. The dialogue is sharp as a tack, and my only criticism is that in parts it reads more as a film script than a novel. A great book nevertheless and quiet unlike anything I've ever read.

4.5 stars What would happen if the 'spirits' of people who'd been horribly mistreated in the past - beaten, tortured, lynched, shot, etc. - came back to get revenge. That's the theme of this satire, which is both hilarious and disturbing. The current trouble starts in Money, Mississippi, which has a notorious past. In 1955, a 14-year-old Black youth called Emmett Till was murdered in Money after he allegedly 'offended' a white woman called Carolyn Bryant. For this misdeed, Carolyn's husband Roy Bryant and his half-brother J.W. Milam viciously beat, mutilated, and shot Emmett, then threw him in the Tallahatchie River. Bryant and Milam were found 'not guilty' by an all white jury. Emmett Till Bryant's Grocery Store where Emmett Till allegedly spoke to Caroline Bryant Money, Mississippi hasn't changed much since those Jim Crow days, and in the 21st century it's still full of poorly educated, racist bumpkins who casually (and constantly) use the n-word to refer to Black people. The bigoted hayseeds - and everyone else in Money - are shocked when Junior Junior Milam (the son of J.W. Milam), who raises hogs, is found murdered in his back room. Junior Junior has a bloody bashed-in skull; a length of rusty barbed wire is wrapped around his neck several times; and one of his eyes is gouged out. Ten feet from Junior Junior is the VERY dead body of a viciously beaten Black man in a blue suit. When law enforcement officers arrive to survey the scene, Deputy Sheriff Braden Brady eyes Junior Junior and observes, "Lord, Lordy, Lord, Lord, Jesus. Looky at that. His balls ain't on him! I think they're in the n---'s hand." Deputy Delroy Digby agrees and says, "Don't touch nothing. Don't touch a gawddamn thing. We got ourselves some kind of crime here. Lordy." Sheriff Red Jetty arrives at the scene and sends the bodies to the coroner, a quack called Doctor Reverend Cad Fondle. Soon afterwards, Fondle calls the sheriff and says, "We got us a problem. Somebody done stole that n----'s body." The Black man's body reappears, however, when Wheat Bryant (the son of Roy Bryant), who has no job and does nothing, is found in his bathroom. Wheat is dead and bloody, with barbed wire around his neck just like Junior Junior. Nearby is the 'missing' Black corpse, holding Wheat's testicles in his fist. Wouldn't you know it, the dead Black man vanishes from the morgue once again, only to reappear at the death scene of old infirm Carolyn Bryant (the woman who accused Emmett Till), who's (seemingly) been frightened to death. Law enforcement officials in Money are clearly out of their depth, and the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation (MBI) sends two agents to investigate the crimes - Special Detectives Jim Davis and Ed Morgan, both of whom are Black. Hearing the MBI is on its way, Sheriff Jetty grouses, "Well, that's just f--- dandy. City cops coming up here to the sticks to help the hillbillies. Don't worry. I'll be nice to the sumbitches." As it turns out, the corpse of the 'roaming Black man' can't be identified, but he seems to have an uncanny resemblance to Emmett Till. Before long, these 'revenge' crimes spread around the country. Racists and Ku Klux Klansmen are found dead in Illinois, Minnesota, Wyoming, and California, and in each case there's an unidentified minority corpse nearby, clutching the victim's severed testicles. MBI Special Detectives Jim Davis and Ed Morgan are joined by FBI Special Agent Herberta Hind, who also happens to be Black. Jim, Ed, and Herberta determine that Money, Mississippi is the nexus of the crime wave, and they suspect that 105-year-old Mama Z, an African-American root doctor, is involved somehow. Mama Z has a record of every person lynched in the United States since 1913, when her father - a voting rights activist - was strung up. Mama Z's files stretch to the thousands, and include men, women, children, and Asians. Speaking to a professor who's studying her files, Mama Z observes, "Less than one percent of lynchers were ever convicted of a crime. Only a fraction of those ever served a sentence." Mama Z's furious great-granddaughter Gertrude observes, "Everybody talks about genocides around the world, but when the killing is slow and spread over a hundred years, no one notices. Where there are no mass graves, no one notices. American outrage is always for show. It has a shelf life." As the story reaches it's climax, and the crime wave continues to escalate, it appears the outrage has taken on a life of its own. All this sounds grim, but the book is hilariously funny. Many of the laughs come from the novel's farcical characters. For example, Wheat Bryant's wife Charlene is called Hot Mama Yeller (her CB handle), even by her children. When little Wheat Jr. needs to use the toilet, he whines, "Hot Mamma Yeller, I gots to pee real bad." And at one of the murder scenes, Doctor Reverend Cad Fondle falls to his knees and prays, "Oh, Gawd Jesus, I knows you have a plan, but us poor White mortals is scared to death down here with this strange n---- you keep sending. Is he an omen, oh Lawd, a sign, or is he the devil, and should we dismember him and burn his body right away?" Deputies Digby and Brady also generate some laughs. Faced with a flat tire on their patrol car, the deputies stand looking at the tire, scratching each other's heads. At first they scratched their own heads, but that told them nothing. But as soon as Brady scratched Digby's head, Digby said, 'Maybe we had oughta change that tire'." More laughs come from observing White bigots around Black detectives. The rednecks can't help starting to say n-----. Then they look up and change their tunes pronto. Author Percival Everett is a Distinguished Professor of English at the University of Southern California whose books are often satirical, meant to explore race and identity issues in America. Everett certainly highlights such issues in this compelling and timely book. I was appalled by the history that underlies the book, but very entertained by the narrative. My one quibble would be the incompletely resolved ending, because I wanted to know more. Still, I'd highly recommend the novel. You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com

This was an interesting mashup of a murder mystery with social commentary about racism and lynching and political commentary about TFG. It was highly readable and goes pretty fast. The end is kind of dystopian, but hardly surprising once the reveals come out in the story. I liked this one slightly more than last year's Telephone. I might go back and read his previous work.

Southern trees bear strange fruit Blood on the leaves and blood at the root The Trees is a horror/satire/revenge fantasy (my local library has it filed in the Mystery section) that goes a long way towards illustrating the banality of evil (and that that “banality” is subject to one’s point-of-view): If you have a problem with the frequent, grisly murder of racist white men in this book, I hope you have a bigger problem with the history of frequent, grisly murder of innocent Black men; pulled from their homes by hooded thugs, beaten, lynched, and left for dead without consequence for the perpetrators (and as one character states that police shootings should be considered the modern lynching, that history persists). The inkiest of black comedies — like a fantastical mashup of Jordan Peele’s Get Out and Paul Beatty’s The Sellout — author Percival Everett peoples this novel with foul-mouthed, bumbling white people and patient and intelligent Black folks, and it all feels justified and cathartic; a schadenfreude-laced fantasy of karmic justice in a world that tends to lack justice for people of colour. The first half of this novel got my heart pounding (short chapters and incredible circumstances certainly help), and the insertion of a list of names of real-life victims of lynchings threw cold water (in the best and most appropriate way) on whatever “enjoyment” I was getting out of the absurdities, but as much as I wanted to love this whole thing, I felt there was a lack of payoff in the end; my interest fizzled as the circumstances exploded (and if this is meant to be, as my library suggests, a mystery, the solution wasn’t novelistically satisfying). I would give this three and a half stars and am rounding up because I love that this exists; I just wish I had connected better with it. Money, Mississippi, looks exactly like it sounds. Named in that persistent Southern tradition of irony and with the attendant tradition of nescience, the name becomes slightly sad, a marker of self-conscious ignorance that might as well be embraced because, let’s face it, it isn’t going away. Money, Mississippi is best known as the site of the 1955 lynching of Emmett Till: a fourteen-year-old African-American boy whose murder was widely publicised and would become a unifying catalyst for the Civil Rights Movement (no one would ever be brought to justice for his death). The Trees is set in the town of Money in 2018, and when a series of gruesome murders (with impossible settings and otherworldly circumstances involved), seem beyond the powers of the local redneck Sheriff and his Deputies to solve, two Black Special Detectives from the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation (the MBI) are sent in to investigate. Eventually joined by another Black agent from the FBI, the three African-Americans will discern the connection to Till’s unavenged death, even if they can’t initially figure out who’s doing the killing or how to prevent more murders. And that’s all I want to say about the plot (except to note that the people who die probably had it coming; good riddance to bad rubbish.) Most of the humour and colour in The Trees comes from the interactions between a wide-ranging cast of characters, and unusually for me, most of what I marked as noteworthy was dialogue. Just a sampling (with, hopefully, the least offensive language.) Old Granny C. providing foreshadowing in conversation with her yellow halter-topped daughter-in-law (known in the CB world as Hot Mama Yeller): “I wronged that little pickaninny. Like it say in the good book, what goes around, comes around.” “What good book is that?” Charlene asked. “Guns and Ammo?” The Sheriff when he learns that the MBI would like to partner with “local law enforcement”: “Mr Mayor, this here is the sovereign state of Mississippi. There ain’t no law enforcement, there’s just rednecks like me paid by rednecks like you.” MBI agent to his boss when asked what he knows about Money, Mississippi: “It’s chock-full of know-nothing peckerwoods stuck in the prewar nineteenth century and living proof that inbreeding does not lead to extinction.” One MBI agent to another, warning against flirting with a local waitress: “She could have some crazy-ass husband or boyfriend. You know, a stupid redneck with a gun.” “That’s redundant.” The local morgue assistant, who’s had “some college”: “I was a creative writing major at Auburn. Poetry. I always wanted to be a Beat poet. Wrong generation. Now I stick dead people in drawers. I suppose it’s the same thing once you get down to it." A local at the first KKK meeting they’ve had in a while: ”We don’t do nothin’ now,” a man complained. “I don’t even know where my hood is. I don’t even own a rope.” Along with the absurd interactions and dialogue, I noted that character names become more and more self-consciously bizarre as the story proceeds: We have Herbeta Hind, Chester Hobnobber, and Helvetica Quip; doubled names like Junior Junior, Mister Mister, and McDonald McDonald (“no relation to the restaurant”); and names that make you think, “Why would an author go there?”, like Wesley Snipes (“no relation and White”) or Pick L. Dill (“school was tough”). But when a character (a Black academic invited to Money to bear witness to what’s going on) is shown a roomful of dossiers on every lynching the 105-year-old Mama Z has collected since 1913 (more than seven thousand names), he can’t help himself but write out those names in longhand, explaining: “I write the names they become real, not just statistics. When I write the names they become real again. It’s almost like they get a few more seconds here. Do you know what I mean? I would never be able to make up this many names. The names have to be real. They have to be real. Don’t they?” And that passage did make me gasp with recognition at what Everett had been playing at with his made up names and it made me pay more attention to the real names that he lists — including everyone from Emmett Till, to several “unnamed male”s, to names we would all recognise from recent history — because, at its heart, this is not so much a work of fiction as a mental reckoning for actual events. Everybody talks about genocides around the world, but when the killing is slow and spread over a hundred years, no one notices. Where there are no mass graves, no one notices. American outrage is always for show. It has a shelf life. I appreciated The Trees as an act of witnessing more than I loved it as a literary work, but again, I am grateful that it exists and think that it should be read by all.

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize, 2021 It is hard to define beauty in physics or mathematics. Beauty is not a measurable quantity. But that hasn't stopped physicists and mathematicians from pursuing it for centuries now. The notion of 'beauty' has come to be associated with truth and symmetries in science. (Physicists, physics students and physics enthusiasts: I do not, I repeat, I do not want to see snarky comments on quarks here. That's not what I mean, and you know it.) Schrodinger was fascinated by life because it did not act like 'any piece of matter.' In his 1944 paper 'What is Life', Schrodinger expressed astonishment over his observation that in living systems order and complexity seem to increase over time, even though 'life' is governed by the same laws of physics which dictate that in closed physical systems, entropy - a measure of disorder, increases with time. In When We Cease to Understand the World, Labatut beautifully explores the lives of Schwarzschild, Schrodinger, Heisenberg, Fritz Haber, Schinichi Mochizuki (of the a + b = c conjecture fame), Grothendieck and de Broglie. He writes about their eccentricities, their quests for beauty, truth and order that often intersected and changed the very fundamentals of physics and mathematics. He does it by taking only enough creative license to fictionalize their emotional lives, which was necessary in my opinion. Where is the colour that might tame the sky? / The grey mist leaves me blind / the more I look, the less I see. My only qualm with the book (and you've probably noticed this already) has to do with its stark lack of female characters. The only prominent female character was a 16 year old tuberculosis patient whom Schrodinger tutored and had sexual fantasies about. She was your typical underage manic pixie dream girl with no character arc of her own. What I don't like about general public reactions to the flaws of famous physicists and mathematicians, especially to those of physicists (and I've seen this in my peers too), is that it's often a feigned ignorance and sometimes even a glorification. I don't like how people in science sometimes pretend as though commonplace rules of morality and ethics don't apply to them because they are pursuing a 'higher truth.' And I'm saying this as a woman in STEM. The scientists written about in this book are extremely popular and much talked about. I would have loved to read more about the unfairly lesser known female scientists - Emmy Noether, for example. Her contributions to both physics and mathematics have been phenomenal, yet I'm sure most of the general populace hasn't even heard of her. I don't mean to say that it was a personal duty on this author's part to write about female scientists. I'm just saying that there are women in science too, you know. And it's time we acknowledge this. Oh, and I expected more representation in a book shortlisted for the International Booker. We can pull atoms apart, peer back at the first light and predict the end of the universe with just a handful of equations, squiggly lines and arcane symbols that normal people cannot fathom, even though they hold sway over their lives. But it’s not just regular folks; even scientists no longer comprehend the world. Take quantum mechanics, the crown jewel of our species, the most accurate, far-ranging and beautiful of all our physical theories. It lies behind the supremacy of our smartphones, behind the Internet, behind the coming promise of godlike computing power. It has completely reshaped our world. We know how to use it, it works as if by some strange miracle, and yet there is not a human soul, alive or dead, who actually gets it. The mind cannot come to grips with its paradoxes and contradictions. It’s as if the theory had fallen to earth from another planet, and we simply scamper around it like apes, toying and playing with it, but with no true understanding.

4.5 Shortlisted for Booker International Prize When We Cease to Understand the World by Benjamin Labatut and translated by Adrian Nathan West is a fabulous, astonishing read. In fact I'm quite stunned and surprised by it. It provides an account of the lives and world of those famous physicists and mathematicians who’ve grappled with the mysteries of quantum physics and in the process fundamentally changed our understanding of the stuff that constitutes the universe. I confess that I'm hopeless with math and physics, I’ve given a good go at various popular works seeking to explain these areas and basically always, other than having a sense that our understanding of these properties and relations has profoundly changed, found myself totally lost. What comes through in this book is that in many ways this sense of entering territory that bends and breaks understanding seems to also inflict these brilliants minds and indeed is somewhat a condition of entry. What I took away from this book was the scientists' imaginative struggle to come to terms with and build a language for something that seems to be well beyond human understanding. In the process they push themselves, and often those close to them, to the brink (and sometimes over) of breaking (madness and horrifying visions loom). The pace of this book is impeccable. The early chapter, Prussian Blue, covering the discovery of cyanide through to Fritz Haber, the German chemist who discovered the process to synthesise ammonia from nitrogen gas, is somewhat traditional in imagery and in style feels like a mostly factual account of the background and implications of this science. On the one hand it led to mass scale manufacture of fertilisers that improved agricultural outputs for starving populations, and on the other, the same science was used in the horrifying chemical warfare of WW1. Here Labatut sets up the theme threaded through this work: the duality of science. It grows knowledge and understanding, often to improve the lot of humanity and yet often with horrifying consequences. This duality or complementarity in the search for scientific understanding seems to be irreducible. The way he approaches this in Chapter 1 feels very Sebaldian (think Rings of Saturn), so it seamlessly introduces fictionalising to this historical account. As the book progresses I think Labatut suggests (through the book's structure and style) that something like the process of imaginative fictionalising is also at the heart of this scientific work. This isn't though to reduce scientific inquiry to the status of fiction or literature: the relationship is far more complex, mysterious and nuanced then that. For example, at key moments in their struggle to wrest understanding from the dynamics of the quantum world Labatut represents these great minds as also often immersed in literary and semi-religious modalities of thought and experience. But again he is careful to not reduce their thinking to these domains: of course there's also something differently rigorous and exact about their mathematical languages and frameworks. It is the deft walking of this tightrope that I admire so much about this work. As the novel progresses the more disturbing imagery and metaphors proliferate as Labatut conveys the minds and experiences of these scientists (Werner Heisenberg and Erwin Schrodinger among others) pushing at the very limits of human understanding and thought. These passages are profound and moving. There's also a sense that there's something darkly horrifying right at the heart of this and therefore perhaps also at the heart of humanity and our drive to know. The novelistic imagining really kicks into gear in the final chapters that follow the rivalry between Erwin Schrödinger and Werner Heisenberg as they race to provide the definitive theory explaining quantum physics. As they push at the very limits of human comprehension the splendid literary metaphors and imagery cascade to provide readers a sense of the dark caverns they're exploring, the costs of this endeavour, including personally and for their psyches, and perhaps what's at stake here for humanity. A wonderful read, highly recommended.

the booker longlist is out for 2024 so i'm...going through the 2023 shortlist, which is totally logical and totally fine.

Now shortlisted for Booker Prize 2023 - So happy that the haters didn't win. It is my second favorite from the shortlist. Top 3 Booker 2023 That rare book that was so obscure that I didn't know what I was actually reading, but I never doubted it. There was an Ottessa Moshfegh feeling (the cover made me think of Lapvona), but it was too minimalist to disturb or entertain me in that way. Nevertheless, the writing is there, and it is refreshing for a book not to have a clear theme.

I do not read a lot of the recently published fiction as I agree with Martin Amis that “it’s just an uneconomical way of dividing your reading time”. However, in my very limited sample I’ve noticed certain patterns in recent “experimental” works. These patterns might be totally determined by my subjective selection of course. But it seems, the fashion of pure autofiction and fictionalised biographies is fading. It has been replaced by a number of more daring and generally more interesting forms. Those forms by itself are not necessary that new. In fact they’ve been used for centuries. But they are still a rare drop in a sea of traditionally told plot or character driven driven “stories”. And it is refreshing to see the younger authors trying to play with something more challenging than that. The one these forms is a fragmentary text comprising mini-essays, research notes, poems in prose and personal memories mixed in, centred on a certain theme, place or even another work of literature. The recent examples I’ve read:, The Baudelaire FractalOut of the Sugar Factory After Sappho]. In these works, the relationships between the fragments are often more important that any single fragment. And the reader is actively engaged establishing these links. Another modification of this is a fragmentary oral history, factual or a counter-factual. The examples: Kick the Latch, ROAR: American Master, The Oral Biography of Roger Orr, Osebol). A different form is a book-length interior monologue of the main character who is often (but not always) the narrator as well (and not always a reliable one). The text would be focused on a relatively short period of time be it an hour, a duration of a journey, or possibly - a season or a year at maximum. The text would be structured into two levels. The one would be a framing narrative that positions the narrator inside the external world. While thinking, often the narrator would be travelling, walking, smoking or doing something similarly monotonous. So this activity would serve as a skeleton of the whole novel and periodically would anchor the narrator’s thoughts. In other cases, this framing narrative would be some simple situation or a rudimentary but atmospheric plot. But the main core of such works is the second level - the narrator’s interiority. The beauty of this form is that the narrator is free to digress on any theme, observe, travel the memory lane or express opinions without the author’s obligation to labour some artificial plot to incorporate all of this. Respectively, the variety of these thoughts are a welcome and the coherence is not an overwhelming requirement. Another distinguishing feature of these works is that the reader is bound by a single perspective of the narrator. This could be a unique experience, but could be boring depending on one’s connection with the narrator’s voice and her preoccupations. It seems a whole plethora of the novels like this were recently published. A few from the ones I’ve read: Panthers and the Museum of Fire and Wall, A Passage North, The Logos. "Study for obedience" is an addition to this list. The book is exactly what the title says - a study. The author conducts her study of obedience as a concept; what does it mean to be obedient and which consequences it might bear. But she does it through the eyes of her character, the unnamed woman who is also the narrator and very likely the unreliable one. It is unclear whether the woman just remembers her past year or she is writing some report about it. I would think the second is more likely due to her style of expressing herself. The main pleasure of reading this book was that it was written in a long, elliptical and beautifully crafted sentences. There is no dialogue, not even much of reported speech. But though this statement is technically true, it cannot be further from reality: the text is full of dialogue with other texts, other authors and very likely - with the readers as well. The framing narrative in this case: the woman moves in into a small town in a strange country to live with her recently divorced brother. The dynamics of this relationship is obscure by design. But she seems to be initially satisfied to be his companion and almost a servant. He seems to be relatively assimilated in the place. While she is clearly alienating the locals. Strange accidents with domestic animals and the pets coincide with her arrival. Might that be the reason for their hostile reaction to her presence. Or is it deeper in a mythology of the place and her origins? The brother is absent on business for the big chunk of the book while she is familiarising herself with surrounding nature and people. This external framing creates almost gothic atmosphere or a timelessness of a fable. The core of the text is her interior abstract thoughts and ideas, perceptions and observations. She of course is puzzled by her situation, but apart from this, she thinks about many different things. And it took me long time to figure how to focus my review without basically repeating a half of the book. (I am not sure I’ve actually succeeded in this btw). Two epigraphs to the work have eventually helped me. The one of the epigraphs is taken from Malina and it is about language. The narrator (very likely - the author as well) is seriously preoccupied with the notion of language, its functions and its limitations. Through her eyes, we observe an illustration how effective mastery of language could be an instrument of power in a society. Her brother is very vocal both in their native language and in the local lingo. It is evident he uses this to exercise his influence, to persuade, to impose his will on the others. “My brother knew how to interpret, to impute, to notate, knew in other words how to wield power. " She, in contrast, being very articulate in her thoughts, seem to unable to exercise any power in communication and uses the language only in a way prescribed by others. She also cannot master the local language at all. So it is much easier for the locals to ignore her or the worse. It is symbolic that while the narrative progresses the situation seems to be getting reversed in parallel with changes in power dynamics: her ability to express herself whether with language or otherwise seem to be growing while her brother linguistic powers seem to fade. He first act of “disobedience”, even if subconscious, has also taken place through the use of language. Her job was to transcribe the audio recording into the text. I cannot restrain myself from quoting at length as the passage is very elegant. She comments with such a cerebral wit on the subject of business style of writing. The one that nips any creativity in the bud: “Up to then, writing had been an exercise in fidelity: transcribing exactly what I heard within the parameters of a strict grammatical framework. Semicolons were to be used sparingly and to separate two independent clauses joined by a conjunctive adverb or else to separate items in a list where those items themselves contained commas. All other uses were to be avoided. Such was the house style. I had prided myself on a well-placed comma, a clarifying colon. It had always been a delight to me to take the vocalisations of my colleagues and organise them according to the immutable laws of grammar, turn them into the purest, most crystalline utterances. And yet, and gradually, my adherence to these rules dropped off. I became more interested in the sound of my colleagues’ sentences, the shape of their words, the occasional and probably unintended sibilance, the repetitions and elisions, the hesitations or pauses where the grammar did not mandate them. I found new ways to mark these idiosyncrasies, making use of space on the page. It seemed to me a truer notation of the language than how I had proceeded up to that point.” So her first act of disobedience is actually an attempt to deviate from the standard, to find the truer language through empty spaces on a pages. In other words, to give more weight to the pauses, to silence as a way of expression. The narrator also thinks about any language’s ability to express truth. The most memorable illustration of this potential impossibility is an episode when a local woman blames the narrator’s dog, Bert, for the pregnancy of her dog. But Bert is in fact snipped. However: “What I knew about Bert’s sterility was a veterinary fact, perhaps even a biological one, but I acknowledged that this was only one way of seeing things. The woman had, doubtless, her own worldview, one that was evidently incompatible with mine but no less true, according to its own internal rules.” I think we all nowadays can relate to the piercing absurdity of this situation while two incompatible “world views” make the notion of truth close to meaningless and the language to express it - powerless. How would you explain a biological fact to a person who does not consider science as a valid proof? There is a theory about language that it has evolved as a tool of persuasion rather than a tool for distinguishing true and false. This book is about it: Language vs. Reality: Why Language Is Good for Lawyers and Bad for Scientists. Language allows to create narratives which often simply connect certain assertions in a convenient way or allow some “inconvenient” events simply to be dropped and forgotten. The resulting narrative does not suffer from the omission, in fact it often improves and it becomes much tidier. A narrative is often used both individually and by a collective in order to create a certain, more palatable picture. In this book, the narrator experiences the result on her own skin. Apart from being a stranger, she is also a Jew, many of her people perished in this land in the past: “My presence violated some crucial and unspoken rule, which I thought now had to do with narrative, the right of a people to preserve the stories they told about themselves and their own history. My silence was a reproach to them, something pressing at the edges of their consciousness, a terrible knowledge they did not want to own and which I made them look at day after day. In silence, yes, for words have more than once led us away from truth.” These people needed the stories: “stories one told oneself in order to live, to go on living with oneself, knowing what one was capable of, knowing the things one had witnessed, the things one had done.” This echoes a well-known phrase by Joan Didion. In seems, on one hand, a language makes life more palatable; but on the other hand, the same language helps to obfuscate something essential, the truth. The narratives are overrated, “words have more then once lead us away from the truth”, so the narrator is often choosing silence. I am not sure whether it is an act of resistance; very likely - not. But it is an act of disobedience by default. I also admired how the narrator has started to doubt other nuggets of acquired, previously unquestionable “wisdom”: “It’s true, I thought, ...that imagination may be a moral faculty, as some writers have maintained, but how to understand its workings? ...If imagination was to be understood primarily in terms of morality, I needed to know how to cultivate it, I needed to understand the terms and structures of goodness and its pursuit. (in another part: “I wanted to be good in the terrible world.”) ...the charge of a lack of imagination was one I took seriously. Had I not spent my life imagining myself in the shoes of the other?” Such questioning has made this work very engaging for me as a reader. I’ve almost screamed: “you are confusing imagination with empathy”; and “i do not believe imagination is moral otherwise all artists would be saints and the art would never be used to inspire evil acts.” The second epigraph is by Paula Rego: “I can make women stronger. I can make them obedient and murderous at the same time.”. It is interesting to speculate whether this is a message on behalf of the author or the narrator. I would prefer the former as creates another meta-fictional layer. The narrator, in my view is not quite there to become both at the same time: murderous and obedient. The analysis of obedience as a concept is quite nuanced. Also it allows the narrator to observe many connected phenomena like historical memory, surviver’s guilt and power dynamics. Sometimes, the narrator feels her obedience is rewarded. But those moments are fleeting. Predominantly, the narrator comes to the conclusion that obedience often borderlines complicity; and meekness or deference are “the swiftest route to one’s own eradication”. I find the two brilliant passages below almost ruthless in their effectiveness: “...meekness brings out the sadist in people, the atavistic desire to bite at the heels of the runt of the litter. As one writer put it, it’s not the meek who inherit the earth. The meek get kicked in the teeth.” “As I cycled across town, to the dump, to the farm, as I cycled back up the hill to my brother’s house, I thought often about life and its chance encounters, the inexorable question of complicity, about how not one of us could claim to be innocent any longer. I thought that naivety, though it had long proven useful in protecting one from facing facts more squarely than it suited, was more inexcusable, more repugnant than ever. No more padding between the word and the world. I read once that ours was a century of half measures, and I thought even then that nothing could be further from the truth. Every single one of us on this ruined earth exhibited a perfect obedience to our local forces of gravity, daily choosing the path of least resistance, which while entirely and understandably human was at the same time the most barbaric, the most abominable course of action. So, listen. I am not blameless. I played my part.” Interesting that in The Need for Roots: Prelude to a Declaration of Duties towards Mankind Simone Weil, (in the list of references to this text) considered obedience as a necessary condition of coherence of a society. She defined obedience as the consent given by an individual to be governed by someone else. This side does not to seem to be resurfaced in this book. To conclude, in my favourite essay “Intertextual irony and levels of reading”, Umberto Eco specifies 4 qualities of a novel: 1) meta-fictional - a commentary of the text on itself; 2) double-coding - at least two possible levels of reading; 3) dialogism - dialogues with other texts; 4) intertextual irony - it is a concept, similar to dialogism, but more subtle - the reference to another text is either not obvious or ironic. The text would make sense without it, but the experience of reading is enriched by it. Since i’ve read the essay, i’ve somehow adopted this list as a kind of a personal checklist of qualities i like in a novel. Needless to say, this one worked for me. All four elements were seamlessly there making my reading a rewarding experience. I cannot resist sharing an example of “intertextual irony”. The narrator’s brother made her read Montaigne at the morning. (This particular example resonates as, like the narrator, I also try to read some Montaigne on some mornings with a mixed record of success:-): “As I struggled through Montaigne each morning, I felt the greatness of his intellect, its expansiveness, and, in spite of this, and truth be told, I felt slightly ashamed on his behalf. Was it that I felt, instinctively, that it was improper to use one’s mind in public, in so public a way? Was it, in the final analysis, a disgraceful, even obscene thing to think out loud, still worse to have one’s thoughts outlive oneself, to travel through the centuries in no straight line, surviving only because of the vagaries of taste, the accidents of translation, to make it through so much only to end up in the hands of some person like me, so ill equipped to receive them?” I found this passage not only witty but also quite funny in terms of her perception of Montaigne. It is ironic of course as this novel does a similar thing to Montaigne - a study of a concept through someone’s subjectivity and knowledge. Moreover, he paid quite significant attention to obedience in particular. I’ve counted 47 mentions of this notion across his different essays. The last chapter was the only part of the novel that left me a bit underwhelmed. I am not quite sure what the author wanted to achieve by it. It seems she was looking for a resolution for her framing plot or for a culmination of the absurdity of the situation of her narrator. But i personally did not find it convincing or necessary. The fact that the narrator has made a very stylised speech and starts to use an academic jargon such as “adjection” and “structures” was a bit puzzling as it went against the perceived absence of the common language with the villagers. The eloquence of the speech, though a wonderful exercise in style did not add anything new for me. Was silence supposed to be a better weapon? I also wish the narrator act more decisively or “murderously” in the sense of Rego’s phrase. That is, if the author’s intention was to get gothic elements of the plot from the background to the main stage. However, these reservations about the last chapter have not spoiled the pleasure of reading and thinking about this book: this might also be obvious from the length of this review!

“In this process, I would become reduced, diminished, ultimately I would become clarified, even cease to exist. I would be good. I would be all that had ever been asked of me.” An unnamed protagonist is embedded into a dissolving rural society. Her self-flagellated - agitated persona provides the basis of a cryptic narrative that puzzles with the amplitude of masochistic, humiliating and anachronistically indisposed wonders succumbed to her life. The sadness of the passing days, the melancholy one felt in the air, only exacerbate the swift contraction of the world around her. This is a claustrophobic and ambivalent novel that will leave you wondering of the righteous path to the purgatory of life, and dare you to ponder what the outcome might have been if the presence of our protagonist had been a mundane joke or just a purposeful game of existential struggle. Allegorical sound - with ethical and comical manifestations spliced in a beautiful narrative of a wondering aptitude and tumultuous angst. 3.8/5

This is unconventional, ominous, and unsettling storytelling. It’s bound to be a divisive feature of the Booker longlist because this is very much a story where what is actually happening sits in the periphery, obscured by the indirect and perhaps unreliable narration. I was consistently impressed by Bernstein’s writing. At a word-by-word, sentence-by-sentence level, this is stunningly constructed. Where for some readers, the obscurity of the plot will be alienating, I found this helps Bernstein to build the ‘vibes’. In a story about an outsider in an isolated community, strong overtones of religious persecution, and unconventional relationships between family members, and with the outside world, this felt like an asset. By no means a perfect reading experience, but thought provoking.

Whoa! I've read several reviews (on Goodreads) to see if I'm on the same page as everyone. If I insert some math, I'm likely 20% agreeable with most of what others say about "Study for Obedience" by Sarah Bernstein. I usually attach numerous tags to a book, which are pointers for my reviews. They assist me in identifying significant insights about the novels I have read. Here I sit, and I am flabbergasted. This is a complex novel to categorise. It's also quite a different read from other works I typically tackle. That is problematic, but I don't believe it is in this instance. I have to acknowledge that I struggled to read it. But I did enjoy it to the point of recommending it to you, dear reader. Why did I struggle? It isn't easy to follow and to believe. Should our nameless narrator be considered "unreliable"? I don't know. I've not travelled enough to say I know everything about communities. There's a three-legged dog called Bert (owned by our nameless narrator's brother), who is castrated and blamed by the secluded villagers for impregnating a dog. That blew my mind. I mean, some communities may be considered "backwards" (if you want to put a label on), but come on, a dog needs at least a ball sack and two hind legs to impregnate a dog. No, not backwards. That's the protagonist's fault for being subservient. But who knows, maybe that common sense could've landed her in more trouble. There is no dialogue between the characters—only contemplative, metaphorical writing, entirely allegorical. The book is about an individual subservient to her family. Since her youth, her sole purpose was to serve her sibling's needs. At times, I was frustrated about the character's subservient nature. But I can understand that no two people are alike, and if she feels comfortable living like that, then... yeah, good for her! (?) 💁‍♂️ The villagers overreact to her presence. While most of the reviews blame this on antisemitism, I feel it is more likely due to the language gap. I believe the persecution of her Jewish ancestors was only mentioned once, and there's no evidence she was "ostracised" for being a Jewess. Meanwhile, the nameless narrator consistently points to her inability to learn the secluded village's language. And yes, like her, I believe that was her true "undoing". Overall, I can understand people who dislike this work. I dislike it for the absence of a plot, but I enjoyed experiencing a unique perspective on life, and that's why I rated it a 4—it is an exceptional work of fiction with beautiful writing.

“My favorite themes are power games and hierarchies. I always want to turn things on their heads to upset the established order, to change heroines and idiots….at the same time as loving the stories. I want to undermine them, like wanting to harm someone you love.” Paula Rego Our protagonist recounts the acts of bigotry and misogyny. She feels she has been trained to be submissive by her family and therefore finds little personal agency. She even absolves herself of any responsibility in connection to her employer, the legal firm. The atrocities of the past and the current day animosities have made her fatalistic. Her account of her life sounds cyclical, with evermore details, all the while obscuring the facts. She moves to a rural village and feels she is not accepted by her new neighbors. The fact that her brother, who relocated earlier, assimilated into the life of the local community and that our protagonist does not speak the local language calls into question her perceptions. And then her brother’s health begins to fail…. “I did as I was asked, yes, but the outcome was too often unanticipated. Some problem in me people always felt but could not prove. What did I give? The sword for the sponge.” Yes indeed she chose to give the sword. I felt I needed to reread this book though it has been on my mind for weeks. I found the protagonist of the novel absolutely beguiling and this reading experience quite unique.

I finished Study for Obedience a few days ago but, to be honest, I still don’t know how I feel about it. It is beautifully written but the story… The story is told by an unnamed female narrator/protagonist but, although I wouldn’t call her an untrustworthy narrator, what she provides is a stream of consciousness-like monologue that often raises questions which she never answers. She tells us she is the youngest of too many siblings to count and she has learned to take care of their every need. Her oldest brother, a successful businessman, asks her to come look after his household after his divorce. He lives in an unnamed northern country where their people had been persecuted and driven out. He proudly explains that his mansion had, in fact, once belonged to the man responsible for this persecution. Along with her usual duties of cooking and cleaning, she is also expected to bathe and dress him and no doors are to be closed including her bedroom door. Shortly after she arrives, he leaves on a business trip and she spends her time wandering around the countryside. On one such ramble, she finds a ewe tangled in a fence, a dead lamb hanging out of her. But this is not the only weird happening since her arrival. A dog has a phantom pregnancy and a herd of cows go mad and the townsfolk clearly seem to blame her, the outsider, for these occurrences. In an attempt to appease them, she fashions dolls out of reeds and leaves them on doorsteps at night, an action which only make things worse. When her brother returns, their relationship seems to return to normal. However, she believes she sees signs that his health was failing and she plans a regimen of health aids to restore him and, in the process, takes over his life. This book is the most beautifully written story I have read in a very long time but also one of the oddest. There is little real action or terribly shocking events. Yet, there is a fairy tale kind of feeling of creeping foreboding throughout. There is also a comment on antisemitism as well as misogyny and, perhaps, a warning to perpetrators to be careful not to push victims too far or they might eventually fight back. But I don’t know - I suspect I will have a better understanding after a second read and there will definitely be a second read. In the meantime, I can only say, this is a very unique, very beautiful novel that has been long listed for the Booker prize and, if this sounds like something you will enjoy, you really should check it out for yourself. I received an arc of this book from Netgalley and the publishers in exchange for an honest review

This is a strange book. The narrator moves to a village in a northern country to stay with and look after her brother. She can’t speak the language and is isolated at once from the villagers and then strange things start happening. There’s superstition but it’s a modern world, there’s a weird subservient relationship with her brother but he then goes away for work leaving her all alone. And there’s a lot more. So I can’t say I know what this book was trying to do, but I couldn’t stop reading and I had to read every word, it’s not a book you can skim. A very powerful read.

This novel is a voice for those who are overtly or covertly opressed. The first-person narrator travels from the city to her brother who lives in the countryside. There she begins to serve him without being explicitly asked to. It is in her acquired obedience to submit and show herself submissive. At the same time, she falls into the role of the stranger who is to blame for the strange happenings in the village: animals die for inexplicable reasons or fall ill, the harvest turns out badly. She is the scapegoat, the witch, the well-poisoner. In addition, she does not speak the language and does not succeed in learning it. The village community fails to integrate her, communication fails and her desire to live the life of another dissolves into thin air due to her inability to free herself from herself or from the constraints imposed on her throughout her life, which she has internalised to such an extent that they have become her very essence. The book demands concentration. The external action is withdrawn in favour of extreme introspection, reflections take up far more space than interactions, and the complicated, partly associative sentence structures must not be left out of sight, because otherwise they take on a life of their own and their meaning eludes them. "Study for Obedience" is a parable in which feminism, psychological self-exploration and images of fascinating ugliness but also beauty are inscribed, a parable which leaves much vague, in a limbo between accusation, insinuation and enigma and ultimately cannot and should not be deciphered definitively.

Despite making it’s way onto the Booker Longlist, I’ve seen little about Study for Obedience by Sarah Bernstein online! I was fortunate enough to receive a free copy via the Penguin Reads program and I must admit - I quite enjoyed this! Hopefully this review helps encourage some readers to pick it up before the Booker Shortlist is finalized this year! The summary for this book advertises it as a surrealistic view into the life of our unnamed narrator after she moves to the Northern countryside to assist her eldest brother following his divorce. Upon her arrival, oddities within the nearby town begin to occur and the common consensus is that she is in some way responsible. How it unfolds is particularly interesting, though I will forewarn readers that this isn’t a typical “weird” fiction book you might except. The plot is really not the focus here, and ultimately this is more of a character study on our protagonist and her heritage. Something about this book very intentionally resembles a fairy tale or fable, likely in large part due to the lack of explicit time, place, or names mentioned in the story. The book itself contains no dialogue, and instead we rely solely on the introspections of the protagonist; despite not particularly relating to the narrator (and finding her frustrating the majority of the time) - I really liked this approach. The theme of ‘otherness’ is foundational to how the narrative unfolds, and being trapped in the mind of our narrator as she is continually excluded and ostracized from those around her helps establish a firm boundary between the reader and the events of the novel. Despite being at an arms length as a reader, it grows apparent that there is a toxic family dynamic that underpins a lot of her identity, and ultimately her sense of place, belonging and purpose are heavily skewed. She finds a quiet power in her subservience and is acutely aware of how her family has systematically taken advantage of her (in large part due to religious and cultural norms). Our narrator makes several allusions to her own ancestry and upbringing, and while I won’t spoil what exactly this happens to be - it was certainly interesting to read about and took the book in a direction I didn’t expect. Irrespective of her personal identity, the common themes of atoning for ancestral guilt, inherited prejudices and reconciliation are all ubiquitous in many groups that I think many readers will relate to this. The book is as hazy and confusing as it is direct - Bernstein constructs a world but only gives us a very limited lens into both its inhabitants and ongoings. The book says as much as it doesn’t, and I think upon re-read you would detect a lot of nuances and small details that help the novel feel more complete. Upon first read it certainly doesn’t feel incomplete per se, but as a reader I felt stifled in some regards. By design our narrator is an outsider, and consequently we don’t get firm answers to a lot of the mysteries that surround her arrival. I’ll admit this wasn’t quite what I was expecting going into this book, but it left me thinking and I think the writing was quite interesting. Bernstein employs an intentionally exaggerated and dragged out style with her sentence structure that I think will be polarizing for some readers. I wasn’t a huge fan of this, but the length of the book was short enough that I felt it compensated accordingly. Overall, this falls somewhere between a 3.5 and 4 for me and I’m glad I picked this up. If you’re a fan of Assembly (Natasha Brown), The Yellow Wallpaper (Charlotte Perkins Gilman) and/or Cursed Bread (Sophie Mackintosh) - then I think this book falls into a similar vein. Thanks again to Penguin Random House Canada for a free copy in exchange for a review.

Picked this one as the winner of the 2023 Scotiabank Giller Prize and was shortlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize. Tbh not sure how to review this! It was a very peculiar book! not bad at all but at the same, did I like it? I don't know.

Booker book 10 of 13: 8/10. Wow, an intense thoroughly involving read that has so much going on that I haven’t begun to unpack it. I had no idea going in that the book was going to wrestle with the Holocaust, memory, survival, dominance and submission, gender roles, language, othering so and so forth. All in a carefully calibrated atmosphere of extreme menace. Again, still figuring out what I just read but the two or three hours that it will take you to read this are time well spent.

Unsettling, strange, very much unlike anything I've read recently. Like Shirley Jackson meets Fleur Jaeggy.

To truly review this book well, I think I would need to re-read it. It's very different than any book I've read before so I would certainly give it high grades for originality. It's so multi-faceted - - touching on themes of Judaism and feminism predominantly - - but also immigration, and the importance of language. There's a lot to unpack, and I don't think I even began to do so on a first pass through the text. Honestly, I would love to read this very closely in a classroom setting. The individual lines are so imbued with meaning. While the enjoyment level wasn't the highest on this first run through, I started re-reading chapter one, and I think I would gain more and more over subsequent re-reads. If this book wins the Booker prize, I would be totally fine with it. It's literature in every sense of the word.

Briefly - Stunningly beautiful writing, somewhat puzzling maybe. This book opens with John in 1917. He is on a battlefield in northern France, dazed and confused. His thoughts wander. In the next chapter it is 1920 and John has returned to North Yorkshire and his wife Helena. He reopens his photography business and maybe this is a clue to this book. We get snapshots of life. The book moves in time between earlier than the First World War and slightly past the present day. There are links between the snapshots and scenes we see though some are easier to find than others. This is a strange book to read. Indeed I'm not sure I've read anything quite like this before. The fact that in some ways there is no "story" but a series of scenes from lives lived is maybe unusual. The writing - which is wonderful - is very poetic and is "stream of consciousness" at times. I would call it disjointed but not offensively so for me. In practice I'm finding it hard to review this book in a way that does it justice. Our journeys as readers of this book will be different. I have to confess that parts of this book left me rather puzzled. However parts of it I loved. There is a scene where Helena, who has already been described as an artist, is a model for another painter. Then she paints again. This scene moved me in ways I find hard to describe. Peter gives a cap to (I'm fairly sure) his daughter's boyfriend - again that felt powerful and intense. For me this is a book to be patient with and allow to happen to you. Experience this and let the flow take you "Someday Anna would come to understand that everything she had thought of as loss was something found" In here is love and loss, pain and beauty and maybe just life generally. Overall I have no doubt that this will be one of the best books I read this year. I found it very interesting as well as powerfully moving. I guess I have to say that at times I did find it frustrating - what did happen to Helena for example. If you allow Held space and time it may well bring you good things. Held is a very special book. 4.5/5 "Who can say what happens when we are remembered" Note - I received an advance digital copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for a fair review

I read the first part of this book the wrong way: 5 minutes here, 10 minutes there. But it demands quiet, patience, attention and room for contemplation. Once I started giving that, it worked - most of the time. It is a contemplative, poetic work with loosely connected stories from the early 20th century to the present day about all those feelings that are under the surface. Desire especially, in all its forms, but also loss and grief, longing and memories. One has to be in the mood and willing to go along. Sometimes I was and it was beautiful, sometimes I wasn't and got annoyed. 3,5

Review to appear shortly at www.thereadersroom.org (where I am participating in a panel that is discussing the Booker Prize longlist). From thereadersroom.org: There’s no doubt this is an exquisitely written work. The amount of care and attention to the details of the writing itself is awe inspiring. However, to me, it didn’t really feel like a novel, but more like a series of interlinking short stories written poetically. I think I’d have gotten more out of it if I wrote down all the characters’ relationships as I read. It’s perfect for an English literature class. I did like how it touches thematically on death and both the science and mystery surrounding it, loss, and love. I appreciated this book more as art and not entertainment. Writing quality: 5/5 Originality: 5/5 Character development: 2/4 Plot development: 2/4 Overall enjoyment: 1/2

Held is not a book about plots or concrete things like that. This is a 200 page poem which links up themes in a subtle way. The strengths of the novel lie in other aspects. If one can sum up the book, and it’s not easy, one can say it’s a family saga of sorts: It starts off with a soldier, john, being wounded in a World War I battle. Then it jumps to him returning and once again continuing the life he had with his wife, Helena. This time he opens a photography studio and ghosts begin to appear in the photographs. Through many jumps we see Helena change jobs, while her friends and descendants survive wars and fall in and out of love. Just to show that history does repeat itself. As I said earlier, the strength of the book is not in it’s plot but it’s in the language, and it is gorgeous. The words flutter and embrace it’s non stop beauty. Maybe, at times, one gets lost in the words and things don’t seem clear but it doesn’t matter. Held has prose of the highest quality and it’s more of a case of just letting Michaels style envelope oneself and worry about meanings later.

Longlisted for the 2024 Booker Prize Held byAnne Michaels is a book containing philosophical ideas and some beautiful poetic prose. Anne Michael is a poet and a novelist and this comes through clearly in this novel written in fragments or stanzas. It covers themes of science and faith, war and loss, memory and grief. The timeline jumps about and sometimes the connections are clear and at other times elusive. At times I felt the novel was simply a vehicle, serving the purpose of the author's ideas, motivations and message to be communicated. As a person of faith, I like the ideas presented, that there is more to life than what we observe and some things are 'beyond our ken'. There is much tenderness and compassion in this short novel. Though I didn't make all the connections, the beauty of some lines really make you pause, think and re read. In fact, the book is well worth a second read. 3.5 rounded up to 4

A deeply romantic and poetic read. I found myself reading this one out loud and to the backdrop of an instrumental reading playlist and it just felt right. Michaels traverses time and place—mostly within the confines of a single family tree—in short vignettes set against times of war and tragedy. She focuses again and again on the idea of giving credence to what we know to be real but cannot see, of faith, of intuitiveness, of absence proving existence, and uses these meditations to stitch together a fabric comprised of lovers, parents, children, and friends who feel the presence of their loved ones long after they’ve taken their last breath. Replicating in her writing these ideas of finding meaning in the invisible or in an absence, Michaels places as much significance in what is left unsaid as to what is spelled out on the page. Sentences and scenes are filled with subtext, with allusions that will gratify the patient reader who is content to sit with a sentence, to revisit a scene whose implications become clearer as the lives of these characters play out. My only gripe is that I felt the book loses the flow of its magic as it gets further away from the lineage of the central family. Including a fictional Marie Curie does connect to the scientific musings littered throughout, but the later chapters felt a bit out of place with all that came before. This is one I recommend reading in as few sittings and with as few distractions as possible. The care and attention this book requires are oh so worthwhile.

'Who can say what happens when we are remembered?' In the late 90s Fugitive Pieces astounded readers with its powerful tales of Jakob and Ben and deservedly gained international acclaim. Held by Anne Michaels is another book that links lives ; this time across decades, continents, wars, trauma, families and love - from the early 20th century up to 2025. Poetic, haunting, incredibly-thought provoking and at times needing multiple reads to truly determine what is being said. Each individual story challenges our thoughts on the concept of being- a metaphysical trail emerges -the supernatural, the sense of the soul and awareness of people absent and no longer alive. The prose is beautiful - many sentences feel they need deeper discussion with friends and family 'The sense of a presence grew almost overpowering. Then, suddenly, the place was destitute. The presence was gone, though nothing outward had changed' " I think we remember someone by living. I think that's the way to remember.' This is a rewarding read and will trigger personal reflection - a meditation in being. This is by no means an easy read- it's non-linear structure needs focus but the depth of character created in limited prose is powerful. Booker long-listed and deservedly so. Challenging, hypnotic and captivating. 'There is only one language for each pair of souls. Others eavesdrop but do not understand.'

Orange has such a unique narrative voice and it is on full display in his sophomore novel. Wandering Stars is sprawling and polyphonic and original. It is a prequel and sequel to There, There, sure, but it's also a book that stands on its own. A lot to admire here. And I can't wait to see what Orange does next.

‘History is like a horror story,’ wrote Roberto Bolaño and Tommy Orange chronicles the long history of ‘America's war on its own people’ in Wandering Stars. Moving through the horrors of the past across generations of violence, genocide and institutional or social erasures and on into a present day of lingering traumas and addictions, Wandering Stars works something like a Godfather Pt 2 to his 2018 novel, There There, being simultaneously a sequel and prequel to the events of that book. We last encountered Orvil Red Feather as yet another victim to gun violence in the final pages of There, There, though this story on the legacy that brought his bloodline to that moment of bloodshed as well as the volatile recovery in the aftermath could just as easily be read as a stand-alone. Still, it was delightful to revisit familiar characters as well as many new ones, each with an impressively distinct voice in a narrative propelled by Orange’s extraordinary acrobatic use of language. Wandering Stars is a sharp critique on a bloodsoaked American history, tracing trauma from colonization and forced assimilation into addictions and fractured histories, though there is still a light and a heavy hope ‘making this place more than its accumulated pain.’ ‘Surviving wasn't enough. To endure or pass through endurance test after endurance test only ever gave you endurance test passing abilities. Simply lasting was great for a wall, for a fortress, but not for a person.’ Where There, There was caught in a breakneck inertia spiraling towards impending disaster, Wandering Stars does a lot of, well, wandering. We move across history through the many generations of the Red Feather family, taking us from the Sand Creek massacre and into the Carlisle Indian Industrial School forced assimilation programs or prisons. This is juxtaposed with a narrative set in the present following Orvil and several other familiar characters. It meanders but never flails, stepping in wide rings of time, sending its prose to swoop and soar, until finally you find a rhythm moving underneath it all and the narrative becomes a sort of dance. A celebration amidst the sadness, a tribute to the past and a plea for the future. ‘Stories do more than comfort. They take you away and bring you back better made.’ While this is a larger story made up of the amalgamation of multiple stories, this is also—in many ways—a story about stories and why they matter. Charles’ notes that his incomplete memories are nothing more than ‘a broken mirror, through which he only ever sees himself in pieces,’ which nudges a central theme on how we use histories or stories as ways to understand our pasts and ourselves. A boy asks ‘why there weren’t any Native American superheroes,’ or a woman in midcentury America is told by a librarian there doesn’t seem to be any books written by indigenous authors. Instead they must see the world through the narratives of people who look like the ‘very kind of men some of us had seen wipe our people out.’ It’s why publishers need to ensure inclusive collections, its why we should make space for more voices lest we choke off storytelling as another form of silencing. That the character Jude witness so many atrocities but is mute and unable to vocalize them is a powerful metaphor, especially juxtaposed with the personal memoirs Charles is able to leave behind. Language and writing become a haven, and it is in learning to read and copy the Bible that we find the titular wandering star of the novel: ‘Raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever.’ That Orange is a superb storyteller makes it all the better. Orange has a dynamic range of voice, moving between characters as well as from fiction to nonfiction passages. Orange has often cited influences in authors like Roberto Bolaño, Clarice Lispector, Jorge Luis Borges, or Javier Marías because they are ‘ not afraid to be really cerebral but also somehow have excellent pacing at same time,’ though many of the passages in Stars feels closer to the mechanics of one of his other favorites: José Saramago. Such as this passage which meticulously weaves languages while winding its way through the halls of history: ‘When the Indian Wars began to go cold, the theft of land and tribal sovereignty bureaucratic, they came for Indian children, forcing them into boarding schools, where if they did not die of what they called consumption even while they regularly were starved; if they were not buried in duty, training for agricultural or industrial labor, or indentured servitude; were they not buried in children’s cemeteries, or in unmarked graves, not lost somewhere between the school and home having run away, unburied, unfound, lost to time, or lost between exile and refuge, between school, tribal homelands, reservation, and city; if they made it through routine beatings and rape, if they survived, made lives and families and homes, it was because of this and only this: Such Indian children were made to carry more than they were made to carry.’ He is speaking of the horrors faced by thousands of indigenous children in boarding school programs that ran under the slogan ‘Kill the Indian, Save the Man’ in an attempt to push ‘the vanishing race off into final captivity before disappearing into history forever.’ This is why survival becomes so key in the novel, though merely surviving is often not enough. Often survival is its own trade off with destruction, such as how the granting of citizenship and assimilation was an effort to dissolve—'a kind of chemical word for a gradual death of tribes and Indians, a clinical killing, designed by psychopaths calling themselves politicians'—the tribes and erase tribal identity. The Termination policies enacted in 1953 forced full citizenship as a way to end federal recognition of tribes and transfer reservation legal jurisdiction over to the federal government, all despite indigenous peoples already being granted citizenship in 1924. As is often the case, language becomes a mask for cruelty. ‘I think I needed to feel the bottom to know how to rise. Maybe we're all looking for our bottoms and tops in search of balance, where the loop feels just right, and like it's not just rote, not just repetition, but a beautiful echo, one so entrenching we lose ourselves in it.’ The novel is wracked with scenes of addiction, poverty and heartbreak but also the dilemma of a disconnect with the past. A large theme of There, There touched on how indigenous identity was often difficult to pin down in the modern world, a theme that continues here. While there is the recognition that ‘no Indians from when they first named us Indians would recognize us as Indians now,’ even Orvil admits that in the present day many of the historical indigenous practices they keep alive ‘can feel corny, and fake, or like trying too hard for something that wasn’t really there.’ Times change, identity shifts, and how can one feel the pulse of the past when the nation spent so much effort and violence into erasing their stories. Though this is not necessarily a complete loss as the novel notes that change is natural and life flows into life, such as the family lineage going from Stars to Bear Shields and eventually Red Feathers. The family marches forward through time even when beleaguered by external aggressions or internal struggles. Ultimately, Wandering Stars captures ‘the kind of love that survives surviving.’ It is the thing that keeps us going, the heavy hope we are willing to carry. This is an ambitious novel, a bit quieter and looser than its predecessor, and it seeks to capture the truly expansive ideas and questions on identity and history. While perhaps it overreaches at times and can occasionally feel like checking as many boxes of themes as possible instead of thoroughly exploring a tighter few, Orange manages to carry his ideas into fruition and craft an engaging novel that achieves its goals. 4.5/5 'Everything about your life will feel impossible. And you being or becoming an Indian will feel the same. Nevertheless you will be an Indian and an American and a woman and a human wanting to belong to what being human means.'

so...this was excellent. it had so much to say about america, about family, about addiction, about being native, about cultural identity, and it did it all in such beautiful language and so precisely. there were parts of this where it lost me, and there was one perspective i don't think added more than it took away, and if anything this was maybe too little a sequel to the first book, but the last sentences of this brought tears to my eyes. striking. bottom line: one of those books where you're like, wow, that's a good title, and then every sentence is as good. --------------------- pre-review "i can't wait to read this book" -girl who is waiting to read it update: i should not have waited. (4.5 / review to come / thanks to the publisher for the e-arc)

Beautifully written, difficult to read, but it’s important to know and to acknowledge history and the impact of that history on the present. Wow , can this man write - from the heart soul as he depicts the Indigenous American experience at different times . The prologue itself should be taught in high schools. It’s a multi generational story of identity, belonging, legacy and family, reflected through loss, blood shed, addiction. This is a follow up to Tommy Orange’s first novel There There. But it’s more than just a follow up taking me back to memorable characters that I loved in that novel. It goes further back in time to earlier generations of the family, back to the Sand Creek Massacre of 1864 with Jude Star and to 1924 with his son Charles Star focusing on the infamous Carlisle Indian School. As in his first novel, this one is told through multiple points of view. I can’t quite give this all the stars as I felt the strength of the connections between the stories stronger in There There. Having said that, meeting Orvil Red Feather again as he continues on his journey to find himself, meeting again Jacquie Red Feather, still healing , and Opal Viola Victoria Bear Shield, my favorite character, still fiercely loving and protecting her family is a moving experience . Tommy Orange has once again educated me and reminded me of the brutal past of the Native American, an important story to be told. I received a copy of this book from Knopf through NetGalley.

Wandering Stars is not a BIG book in terms of pages (336) but HUGE in what it contains. I have not read There There and plan on making time to do so after reading this powerful book. Tommy Orange's writing is quite beautiful while detailing and describing horrible injustices against Native Americans. Colorado, 1864 Star has survived the Sand Creek Massacre and is taken to the Fort Marion Prison Castle, where they are hellbent on removing his identity and culture through violence and barbaric treatment. He is made to learn English and convert to Christianity. Years later Star's son, Charles, will be sent to the same place and will be brutalized by the man who once brutalized his father. There he will meet Opal. Oakland, 2018 Opal is coping with all that has happened and all that is currently happening in her life and to those she loves by experimenting with drugs. This book touches on several horrific things that occurred to Native Americans. The things discussed are on a drop in the bucket of injustices, harms, abuses, eradication, and violence that has been committed against Native Americans. I appreciate the author for giving voice to them. I am a firm believer that we should never shy away from things that make us uncomfortable. It is how we learn, how we grow, how we are educated, how we learn empathy, and how we gain insight. The atrocities against Native Americans have included cultural devastation, assimilation, violence, loss of land, abuse, forced relocation, discrimination, removal of children, and death to name a few. The Sand Creek Massacre, Fort Marion Prison Castle, and drug/alcohol abuses are mentioned in this book. There is not only physical trauma, emotional trauma, but family trauma and cultural trauma detailed as well. These are shown through the POV's of several characters. This family saga was well written, gripping, and hard to read at times. It has me wanting to read the author's previous book. I found myself thinking about this book after I finished the last page. Thank you to Knopf and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own. Read more of my reviews at www.openbookposts.com

**Many thanks to NetGalley, Knopf, and Tommy Orange for an ARC of this book! Now available as of 2.27!!** "But surviving wasn't enough. To endure or to pass through endurance test after endurance test only ever gave you endurance test passing abilities. Simply lasting was great for a wall, for a fortress, but not for a person." The year is 1864. Star is a survivor of the Sand Creek Massacre, a mass execution of Cheyenne and Arapaho people during the American Indian Wars and has made it through the bloodshed, but has been relocated to Fort Marion Prison Castle. Now under the watch of Richard Henry Pratt, he is forced to put his culture and heritage aside and learn both Christianity and English. This will be the beginning of a mission for Pratt, who will later found the Carlisle Indian Industrial School, an institution whose core mission will be much the same: erase and replace Indian culture. This school will find the family several years later, when Jude's son Charles also falls victim to the prison and trapped in these unfeeling and unforgiving walls. Charles' only solace is his friendship with a fellow inmate Opal Viola, and the bond they share is quick and effortless. They both long for a future on the outside, a world without a motto that states "Kill the Indian, Save the Man." We then jump in time to Oakland in 2018, directly after the violent pow-wow massacre that took place at the end of Orange's first book, There There, and the horrific aftermath of these events. Orvil has survived the shooting, but heads down a dangerous road when it comes to his painkillers, and his family, knee deep in their own trauma, is not much better off. Under the strain of racism, injustice, and pain, can this family band together to rail against the forces that keep them clawing and fighting for their very survival? Or will the legacy of generational trauma, pain, and degradation leave them as 'wandering stars'...forever? There There is nothing short of a stunning piece of literature. I remember TEARING through that book in a day or less, enraptured by the cast of characters and Orange's fluid, mesmerizing prose. The voices were SO distinct, SO real, that I felt as though I was reading a collection of journals rather than a work of fiction. So much so, that I honestly GOOGLED There There after reading it JUST to make sure it was fiction: it was just THAT good. The crescendo of action, the perfect climax, the beautiful mix of light and dark that played gently throughout the pages...there's a reason the book was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize. Oh, and not to mention...that was Orange's DEBUT. So it's hard to imagine a book that could live up to the sort of impossible precedent Orange laid out for well, himself, after such a jaw-dropping first novel. I went into Wandering Stars with the loftiest of hopes, the highest of expectations...and while I was still thoroughly WOWED by Orange's ability to turn a phrase...There There this was not. First off, Orange attempted to do something I don't think I've ever personally read in a book before: he wrote a prequel AND a sequel to There There...and put them in the same book. This was a strange experience for me as a reader, in the sense that There, There is SO contemporary in flavor from start to finish, and the first part of THIS book essentially reads more like historical fiction...and a very specific subset of historical fiction dealing with the aforementioned battle, at that. This isn't to say this section of the book is BAD by any stretch, and it is certainly informative and provides a different level of context, but like with so many other historical fiction reads, it felt a bit dry and less emotionally driven compared to the in-your-face gut punch that began from page one of There, There. I'm not sure if being more familiar with the context of the events themselves would have been helpful, but many times I felt bogged down by the details rather than simply swept away by Orange's storytelling ability. There's also the fact that this story works its way through a (somewhat) complex family tree, where family members are often named after one another or have multiple names, and this makes the family tree that Orange puts at the beginning of the book nothing short of essential. Especially for someone whose memory can get a bit muddled when there are LOTS of characters involved, I can't even tell you the number of times I flipped back and forth to remember who was talking or who was related to who and how...it can be a LOT. Always worthwhile, mind you, but although this is more of a personal preference, I wish the chapters were outlined with the narrator's name at the beginning of each section for reference too: sometimes we went into a new character's narration abruptly, and other times it was simply a continuation from the previous chapter, and it would have been wonderful to have a clearer distinction between the two options. Once we got to the present day (or rather, as close as we get in the novel, from 2018 onward) things began to turn and I felt more of the flow I had been missing thus far. There was one chapter in particular (I believe narrated by Lony) that at its completion, I sat back and honestly wished I could give that single chapter TEN stars. Orange is such a gifted writer, so thoughtful and specific, prescient without coming off as high brow or arrogant, and his ability to craft a compelling sentence is top-notch. There were so many instances where if I'd had a physical copy of this book I KNOW I would have been highlighting it left and right (Or at least, adding Post-It note markers for later reference!) and as time wore on, I started to wish that the WHOLE book had read more like this last section. I know Orange had the ability to make this SEQUEL book happen and in some ways, it became a bit one note with the addiction struggles of sorts experienced by multiple characters. I did miss a bit of the pulse-pounding, adrenaline fueled rush of his first book's third act climax...but this book is more about examination and exploration of past abominations....and the ripples that still are felt, even today. I'll leave you with an observation from one of Orange's many brilliant narrators, with a sentiment that not only applies to the long-standing struggle and pain of indigenous people, but to a longing and wanting keenly felt by humanity itself: "I think I needed to feel the bottom to know how to rise. Maybe we're all looking for our bottoms and tops in search of balance, where the loop feels just right, and like it's not just rote, not just repetition, but a beautiful echo, one so entrenching we lose ourselves in it." ...May we lose ourselves in it, indeed. 4 stars

Wandering Stars is the poignant follow-up novel to Tommy Orange’s There There. This generational novel follows two timelines: what happened after the Sand Creek Massacre of 1864 and the aftermath of a shooting at a powwow in 2018. There are plenty of discussions on religion and trauma, including generational trauma. It examines how Richard Henry Pratt tried to “kill the Indian, save the man” when he founded the Carlisle Indian Industrial School. I struggled with TT due to the number of POVs and the writing style. It had a lot of characters and not that many pages to get acquainted with all of them. However, this book has slightly fewer POVs, which allows a closer understanding of each one. I can appreciate the stunning quality of Tommy Orange’s writing style, but personally, I struggle with texts that are heavily introspective and which feature minimal dialogue. The contemporary timeline has slightly more dialogue than the historical sections. Still, I think this will be a five-star read for many people. 3.5 stars rounded up. Thank you to McClelland & Stewart for providing me with an arc in exchange for an honest review. https://booksandwheels.com

Six years have passed since Tommy Orange published his debut novel, “There There,” but the echoes of that story still reverberate in the minds of those who read it. A member of the Cheyenne and Arapaho tribes, Orange introduced a large cast of Indians in modern-day California and drew them to the Oakland Coliseum for a powwow that offered a chance for cultural celebration, commercial enterprise, spiritual reflection and, most notably, grand larceny. With varying degrees of success, these characters struggle to carve out a livable haven amid the caustic crosscurrents of American racism and historical amnesia. By listening sympathetically and refusing to elide their challenges — or their mistakes — Orange demonstrates that Indians are not feathered Hollywood tropes or wooden icons of Old West mythology. His fiction explores the complex challenges faced by people struggling to understand their identity within a dominant culture determined to bleach and sentimentalize the past. During one of many poignant moments in Orange’s new novel, “Wandering Stars,” an Indian woman goes to a public library in the late 1950s and asks “what novels are written by Indian people.” The librarian tells her “she doesn’t think there are any.” Sixty years later, an Indian boy wonders “why there weren’t any Native American superheroes.” His older brother laments that he and his family “weren’t connected to the tribe or to their language or with the knowledge that other people had about being.... To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

4★ “He’d first seen laudanum advertised all different kinds of ways. As an elixir. A soothing syrup. Once he saw it called the poor child’s doctor. Another time it was advertised for teething babies.” And so begins this story of opiates. The dedication reads: “For anyone surviving and not surviving this thing called and not called addiction” Important, difficult, interesting, confusing. This is what crossed my mind as I was reading. Addiction really wasn’t one, although I realise the author is speaking of the repercussions of colonialism, which kept Indians, especially children, in controlled institutions where their customs and languages were forbidden. I learned none of this at school. “Charles Star’s memories come and go as they please. They are a broken mirror, through which he only ever sees himself in pieces. He doesn’t know that it is true of everyone, of memory itself . . . He has forgotten that he has forgotten things on purpose. This is how he has hidden them away from himself. He suspects there must be something worse beneath the worst of what he knows happened to him at the school, the haircuts and the scrubbings and the marches, the beatings and starvation and confinement, the countless methods of shaming him for continuing to be an Indian despite their tireless efforts at educating and Christianizing and civilizing him.” Nor was I taught about this. “These kinds of events were called battles, then later— sometimes—massacres, in America’s longest war. More years at war with Indians than as a nation. Three hundred and thirteen. After all the killing and removing, scattering and rounding up of Indian people to put them on reservations, and after the buffalo population was reduced from about thirty million to a few hundred in the wild, the thinking being “’very buffalo dead is an Indian gone,’ there came another campaign-style slogan directed at the Indian problem: ‘Kill the Indian, Save the Man.’” I think that conquerors in ancient times captured and enslaved whatever survivors there were after the last battle. As society has progressed (I use the word loosely), those who move in and take over someone else’s land, plant a flag, declare it a ‘new’ country, tend to ‘allow’ the original inhabitants to do domestic and farm work until they are ready to be assimilated into the new society (once they have learned their place, of course). Kill the Indian and save the man. Today, not just in America but around the world, First Nations Peoples are attempting to reclaim their cultures and languages with pride. In spite of Charlie Star’s ‘broken mirror memories’, some traditions are indeed being passed down, like the dances and songs and the powwow, where performers and participants wear the regalia particular to their tribe. Some of this was explained in the Pulitzer Prize-winning first book, There There, but the family dynamics, both historically and present-day, are shown in more detail here. It is heartbreaking to watch those lost children, who are now grandparents, trying to save their own grandchildren from drugs. It is no wonder that people turn to anything to numb the pain. What began with ceremonial peyote becomes dope, opioids, and the concoction the young people here called Blanx, because the ingredients changed according to what the supplier could get for them to mix up and sell. Life in California is not a beach for them. It sucks. Big time. Many sections are narrated in the second person, which I found confusing. There is a good family tree in the front of the book that I referred to frequently. As with many families, people are named after each other, so I’d forget which generation was which. “Your full name will be Victoria. Your real mother will give you that name, will have said that to your white parents as they helped her through labor, while also helping themselves to you, your mother’s child, just as soon as the wet and life in her eyes was gone. They will keep the name Victoria for you, but only ever call you Vicky. That they keep anything that came from your mother will be a kind of miracle, as all Indians alive past the year 1900 are kinds of miracles. . . . You will never know that the name Victoria also comes by way of your grandfather, Victor Bear Shield.” It’s in the latter part of the book that the story proceeds in a more usual narrative form, following a family of characters, friends and tribal members. We get to know more about Orville Red Feather, his siblings and aunt-grandmother. I admired the writing and the story, but I can’t honestly say I enjoyed it. I don’t mean because of the message. I loved There There and was sorry it came to such an abrupt ending. I have no excuse for getting lost and losing the thread. I’m giving the stars for the importance of the story and the writing, while still allowing for the fact that I felt like I was missing something. Thanks to #NetGalley and Random House UK for a copy of #WanderingStars for review. P.S. For a particularly thoughtful, thorough review, read Kim Lockhart's here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Genre: Historical Fiction + Literary Fiction "Wandering Stars" is a book that examines the complicated history and traumatic experiences of Native American families in the United States of America. It is a multi-generational work that spans centuries and is rich in content. The novel begins with the Sand Creek Massacre in 1864 and continues up to the present day, weaving together the stories of many different characters who struggle with the repercussions of colonialism, forced assimilation, and intergenerational trauma. At the beginning of the book, there is a terrifying event called the Sand Creek Massacre. Star, a Cheyenne warrior, is present during this event and witnesses the brutal slaughter of his people. He escapes and is imprisoned at Fort Marion, where he encounters Richard Henry Pratt, an evangelical prison guard obsessed with "civilizing" Native American people. From that point on, we follow all of the various characters and the difficulties, challenges, and obstacles that they encounter throughout the various eras. Until now, I was completely unaware that this was a part of a series. Since I have not read "There, There," I am unsure how my evaluation of this book would have been affected if I had read that book. This writing is so lyrical and has such a beautiful quality. No matter how much I praise the author’s prose, I don't think it would do him justice. I could tell I was going to adore this book the moment I started it. The historical portions in the first half, though, are the most interesting and impactful, in my opinion. I simply would have preferred it if the story had narrowed its focus to that period and introduced fewer characters so that I could relate to them better. I think that would have made it a five-star book for me. There is more to Wandering Stars than just a story about adversity. Additionally, it is a demonstration of the unwavering fortitude, resiliency, and love that serve as the glue that holds the Bear Shield-Red Feather family together. The author begins this book by delving deeply into the dark history of the United States of America, specifically, the genocide that was committed against the Indians, or what we now refer to as Native Americans, and how this genocide continues to have an impact on the generations that have survived it. Not only does this matter greatly from a historical perspective, but it is also relevant to the present day because genocide is occurring elsewhere under the guise of "war" and everyone is obliviously watching as if it were a fascinating circus. The fact that this book explores topics that some people may find unsettling and problematic makes it an extremely important piece of literature. It is necessary, however, to tell stories such as that, and we must continue to remind people of the past for them to comprehend how they should behave in the present and the future. It is imperative that everyone is aware of topics such as the legacy of colonialism and the ongoing impact it has had on Indigenous communities. Moreover, the book delves deeply into the significance of cultural identity and the difficulties of recovering it following centuries of suppression. This is not a book to be read for entertainment purposes, but rather to understand history and empathize with the people who have endured and continue to endure great hardship and suffering. Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for the ARC of this book.

A Cheyenne man survives the Sand Creek Massacre of 1864 and lives long enough to have progeny. Over the years, his descendants face hardship after hardship and are forcefully assimilated into settler society. They know something is missing. They yearn connection with culture and the land. Is this possible when the land is no longer theirs, and the cycle of intergenerational trauma persists? "Wandering Stars," in my opinion, adroitly provides a literary answer. It is open-ended. The legacy of conquest and massacre endures beneath the surface. Native Americans persevere. It is not easy. It is a statement of resilience. The author is saying: We are still here.

Only now, after reading other reviews, do I realize that Tommy Orange’s Wandering Stars is a pair to his 2018 debut, There, There. Do not let this stop you from picking up this book if, like me, you have not taken the opportunity to read There, There. I found Wandering Stars worked wonderfully as a stand alone. Wandering Stars is a profound exploration into the tragic history of Native American life, skillfully interwoven with the fraught past and a turbulent present. Opening in the immediate aftermath of the 1864 Sand Creek Massacre, the narrative introduces Jude Star, enduring harsh assimilation policies at Fort Marion Prison Castle, setting themes of trauma, identity, and resilience. As the saga unfolds, it traces the scars passed down through generations to Opal Viola Victoria Bear Shield and her nephew Orvil in 2018 Oakland, whose struggles against cultural genocide are depicted with compelling depth. Orange's narrative is both vivid and immersive, marked by his poetic prose and deep character development. We bear witness to a cycle of historical violence and the resilient quest for healing. Wandering Stars is a testament to the endurance of spirit and the profound strength required not just to survive but to reclaim identity against the erasure of time and policy. As I unintentionally skipped There, There, I will be going back to read it and enrich my enjoyment of both of Orange’s rich and real stories. Thanks to Netgalley, Knopf, Pantheon, Vintage, and Anchor, and Tommy Orange for the advanced copy in exchange for an honest review.

I read There There last month, it was an amazing introduction to the author so I knew I had to read this too. I opted for the audiobook, the narrators did an excellent job this time around too. While I liked the first book a smidge better, I still had such a good time listening to this. I just love how Tommy Orange writes, and how beautifully his style comes across, even through audio. I also loved seeing familiar faces from book one, their pasts and futures. It gets jumpy timeline wise (again), so I'd suggest you read There There first so you'll be more used to it, and the characters will be easier to follow. You don't have to read it though, you could just start with this one if you so wish, but it's a brilliant book so you definitely should give it a try at some point. The history woven in is difficult to read at times, but I appreciate it so much. It's expertly done, in a way that doesn't distract from the story, while educating the reader & walking them through the pain all the same. Books like this one are so important and need to be in all schools around the world (and especially in the US). I'd wholeheartedly recommend both this and There There to anyone and everyone.

This was my first Tommy Orange book. While 'Wandering Stars' does pick up after 'There, There' I had no problem reading this as a standalone novel. This book was a honest reflection of the long-lasting effects of displacement, trauma, and addiction experienced through the lives of two Native American families.

I do not think I have ever read such a powerful depiction of the suffering and history of Native American people. Tommy Orange’s writing is magnificent, and almost every page contained phrases that I could have pondered at length. This novel is to some extent a prequel to There There (his first novel), and the reader meets the earlier family members of the characters in that novel. We watch as Jude Star witnesses the Sand Hill massacre and as his son Charles fights to survive the Carlisle Indian School. We see future generations of the family deal with poverty and racism, and we watch as they seek relief through alcohol and drugs. As in the prior novel, one of the strong underlying currents of this novel is the United States’ persistent, brutal and uncompromising fight to annihilate the Native American culture in every way possible. The other theme was the destruction of lives and families caused by substance abuse, which occurs frequently in the Native American community - - in many ways arising from the obliteration of the Native American culture and the resulting position of Native American in our society. In some ways this could be called a “quiet book”, but the message Tommy Orange has so magnificently delivered will live loudly within me.

"When it comes to my own name, I went looking through a Bible. I couldn't decide until I got to the book before the last book, after coming across the verse: 'They are clouds without rain, blown along the wind, autumn trees, without fruit and uprooted--twice dead.' Getting these new names felt like dying again. And I felt like a cloud without rain. And I felt without fruit and uprooted. Twice dead. All of it. It was me. The Book of Jude. I didn't even remember that the next verse was one that had so struck me when I'd first encountered it, that first time. I'd read the Bible all the way through, that verse about wandering stars." ⭐️💫✨ A breathtaking journey through history and the heart. Wandering Stars bravely lays out the horrors of colonialism, and its generations-long effects, but also masterfully recounts the resilience and undying poetry of the oppressed. From the Sand Creek Massacre to present day, each perspective is raw, evocative, and gorgeously crafted, highlighting the vital essence of storytelling and the inextinguishable breath of identity. Urgent and full of lyrical prose that leaves a mark, this novel is a hard-hitting act of both remembrance to all those who carried the torch, regardless of weather, of obstacle, of loss, but also of resistance, of holding fast to those memories while fighting for a future of justice, of preserving those stories and truths.

4.5 stars. Harrowing and hopeful in its multi-generational narrative and epic in the sheer amount of history it examines through a fiction lens, Wandering Stars is a powerful, superbly written family saga that makes me wish I picked up Orange's first novel beforehand.

4.5 / what a beautiful follow-up by Tommy Orange!! We get a close-up look at the family’s Indigenous lineage and history, and get to see how the ending of There There changes the course of their lives. I do love the author’s writing style, it’s like reading poetry, but every so often it pulled me out of the story to figure out what he meant. Still, an absolutely must-read if you loved There There!

In a followup to his wonderful debut novel, There There, Tommy Orange covers some of the bloody and cruel treatment of Native Americans through the history of branches of two families, the Stars and the Bear Shields, beginning with the Sand Creek Massacre of Cheyenne and Arapaho people by the U.S. Army on November 29, 1864. In Part Two, the story catches up to the current day with Orvil Red Feather and his family who were the main characters of There There. Jude Star, Orvil's great-great-something-grandfather, survived the Sand Creek Massacre, and his son, Charles, survived boarding schools designed to 'assimilate' Native kids into white culture. Orvil's two grandmothers, Jacquie Red Feather and Opal Bear Shield, raised Orvil and his brothers after their mother died from an overdose. Their family history is a story of addiction in its many forms. As Orvil says, their family was 'weakened by the effects of history, colonization and historical trauma...not strong enough to pass down the traditions or language successfully.' With the violent destruction of their tribes, these people became 'wandering stars.' Quite a powerful story, if a bit sad and depressing. Many thanks to the author and publisher for providing me with an arc via NetGalley. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

First off I’m really going to have to prioritize reading there there sometime sooner because I can’t help but be surprised at the fact that this is a sequel fictional generational tale and from beginning to end while heart wrenching and rot with despair it felt entirely contained and encapsulated and at least personally it never even seemed to hint at its literary predecessor but nonetheless I can 100% say my heart was deeply affected and moved by this piece. One of Tommy’s strongest points is just the realism from cultural references to The setting and overall ambience to even the ways in which characters act in reference to any particular character due to cultural norms at the times or not as well. What hit deepest of all lies in the similar if not parallel juxtaposition of tragedy and struggle of both modern and recently deceased native Americans with the only difference in many occasions sadly being the ways in which people are or express their ignorance and the “medicine” in which they use to cope and which inevitable uses them in return till they’re no more. 4.25/5

4.5. I’m in a crappy mood, when I’m in a better one, I’ll probably round up instead of down. It’s really good y’all.

Recently, I felt that reading reviews ahead of reading UNDER THE EYES OF THE BIG BIRD led to increased expectations going in and then an eventual letdown by the unexciting revelatory chapters, whereas the opposite happened here. Reading reviews and others' thoughts on ON A WOMAN'S MADNESS before reading led me to have the lowest of low expectations. I expected an incoherent, opaque jumble of random mishmashed vignettes that would leave me feeling continually confused on the timeline and who was speaking. In a way, I'm glad I went in with these expectations because it made me enjoy the book all that much more when I realized this wasn't the case. I won't go so far as to say that it’s a totally undemanding read, but I never found it to be any more taxing than the many other literary novels that drop in nonlinear flashbacks here and there. What it is, though, is spectacular. I was surprised to be sucked in from page one. What we have here is a Creole Surinamese woman who refuses to be pinned down, to be trapped in the boxes that the norms of her time force on her. Her madness is no real madness at all, but instead an affliction caused by a mad society. Though considered a pariah by the other townspeople, her husband, siblings, her employers, doctors, etc., she constantly seeks liberation and fulfillment by any means possible. Time is spent with each of the three loves of Noenka’s life: her mother, her childhood beau turned lover, and her true love, Gabrielle. In the background, but really in the foreground, is the colonial and enslavement history of Suriname and its lasting effects, especially as seen in the divide between Noenka's parents, her mother adopting the colonists' religion and beliefs while her father descends from a family with Indigenous religious beliefs. Roemer’s writing is captivating, bringing to life the tropical setting with its lush greenery and violent wildlife; orchids and snakes are used as symbols throughout. The dialogue felt at some points a product of its time and at others astoundingly modern. It's a book filled with love, longing, and the desire to live a life of one's own. I'm so glad the International Booker got me to pick this one up!

Honestly, I have no idea what just happened. But it left me with a lot to think about, so.

Wow. This story was dense but deeply moving. It’s a challenging read because the chronology is a little loose—time periods aren’t stated at the outset of a flashback, an important character is interacted with but not introduced, etc. A whole scene will unfold and its significance/what even happened is explained pages later. Still, i really enjoyed this novel’s exploration of 1980s Surinamese history, culture, and social dynamics and the use of poem/lyric/metaphor to build on the story. “I’m Noenka, which means Never Again. Born of two polar opposites, a woman and a man who pull even my dreams apart. I’m a woman, even though I don’t know where being female begins and where it ends, and in the eyes of everyone else, I’m black, and I’m still waiting to discover what that means.”

This is a very dense book that’s often hard to follow, but once you let go of the expectation of understanding every detail and just go with the flow, its rhythm sucks you in. It kept my attention all throughout, which is surprising for a book of that nature, as I usually get tired of being lost. It was a heavy read, not only in form but also in content. I loved following Noenka, a complex character who puts into sharp relief our unconditional need for love, freedom and belonging. A queer classic, its depiction of queerness was definitely rooted in the time and place it was set and written in, conditioned by religion, patriarchy and colonialism, but ultimately offered the sapphic yearning I was hoping for. The imagery was beautiful and I would love to reread this book to analyze it more, now that I understand where the story is going! Definitely a worthy pick for the International Booker Prize longlist. 🩷🐍🥀 "I loved him the way a sister loves a brother. Full of reservations and fear of him pulling me down into something that I was trying with all my might to rise above, the limitedness of my womanhood, of my blackness, and of my material powerlessness." "Was I only using other people as fertilizer for my growing individuality? Would I take the trouble to love these other people?" "Ever since you gave me life, you’ve been bleeding inside me, Mama." "I recognized you from the mosaic of my yearning."

An utterly engrossing read! Roemer's novel is intense. With feeling, history, prejudices, identity, love, and relationships. Our main cahrater Noenka leaves her marriage and is shamed and blamed. She questions her capacity to love and how her very complicated bonds with both parents have shaped her own romantic views and expectations. She is afraid to give herself fully, keeping the most sacred part of herself locked away. The prose is rich yet sparse in some places, and the reader must pay close attention so that they miss nothing and are able to follow the change in time and place, which occur without warning. I love how poeticism emerges, woven quite seamlessly within dialogue and descriptions. The sensuality that is subtle yet so compelling when you come across it. There is passion, anger, betrayal, violence, and love within these pages, and for Noenka, just trying to live a life for herself is difficult. There is always the weight of expectations from family, society, even history. But she is not being completely honest with herself or her lovers and exists in a sort of maelstrom of undecidedness and torture.

A superbly beautiful, caleidoscopic novel which is not nearly as hard to read as a lot of people makes you think. It is poetic obscure and draws you in and most of all deeply human. The translation is stunning. There were parts where the lose pacing of the narrative seemed to take more than it gave and the ending (no spoilers) felt quite out of the blue - but you ask yourself if all this is not intended. A novel that is as fractured as it’s main character.

Love!! A unique read, powerfully explores post colonialism identity but also the very human desire for love and connection in all of its messy forms. Sensual and raw. A difficult read to follow and make sense of at times but I ended up loving the magical realism elements of it - I felt confused in the beginning, but just let it wash over me and was glad I persevered. I felt that the complex metaphors heightened the book’s portrayal of complex emotional states, eg there are many times in the book where both anger and love/tenderness towards the same person coexist simultaneously.

I discovered this book by chance knowing nothing about it. It was a great surprise given the topics it covers and the date of publication. Sadly, some of these gender issues still resonate with us.

4.7 I need a physical copy of this novel. I know this is one I'll revist many times over. I need more of her work translated, or I might need to learn Dutch to read her other pieces of literature. "Feel this! I'm alive too. I haven't forgotten a single thing: But there's more. Come here! Stand under the light. Look me in the eye...do you see yourself: Do you recognize your image there? My head is full of you. Give me your hand. Close your fingers around my wrist! Feel how surely my life beats for you. My blood is full of you. Come rest your ear on my chest. Do you hear how my heart whispers your name? I love you."

3.5 my journey with this book is a tale of hubris. so i know conversational dutch, right? so, with zero expectations of actually being able to understand the original text, i start reading in dutch and actually enjoy it a lot despite only understanding 60ish% of it. eventually i burn myself out and switch to the english, and the translation makes my skin crawl with disgust. it’s really not as bad as i make it out to be,, the actual prose is fine, a little wordy, still nothing i can’t deal with, but the dialogue, which was my favourite part of the dutch, it was grossly clunky. it irked me so bad that the sentence structure was the same as in dutch, i kept translating it into dutch subconsciously, and it was frankly exhausting. about the actual book now, you go girl. it’s about women’s rights and women’s wrongs and women’s madness. lkey her takes were valid. i liked she was an unreliable narrator, i loved her relationship with her mom and her toxic ass relationship too. it’s a very important look onto the results of colonialism and christianity in south america. if you read no longer human and wished it was about a woman definitely check this book out. i recommend the dutch if you can, but the english translation isn’t that bad either

The Shadow King is an exquisitely lyrical fact meets fiction historical epic set at the beginning of World War II. It charts Italian fascist Benito Mussolini’s imperialist dream as he invaded Ethiopia on October 3, 1935, with the intention of making it an Italian colony. This act of aggression shook the country to its core and forced Emperor Haile Selassie into exile. Mussolini knew that Ethiopia had little to no chance of winning against the superior weapons and vast numbers of highly trained soldiers they had at their fingertips yet this didn't make it any less bloody, violent and downright brutal. The story then covers the Ethiopian resistance through the eyes of a cast of brave women who wished to fight for their country rather than being relegated to simply caring for the injured and burying the dead. Hirut is an unforgettable character who pushes for women to do more. Unfortunately, she is later captured by the Italians and kept as a prisoner of war by cruel and cold-blooded soldiers. There is so much happening throughout the book that you definitely need your wits about you if you pick it up; you are rewarded with a powerful, fierce, feminist tale showing the resilience of the human spirit and the human ability to get up to fight time and time again despite dire circumstances and great adversity. Mengiste is a master storyteller and has crafted a complex, convoluted story allowing you to slowly and satisfyingly peel back the multiple layers and get to the meat of it all. It's intricate and wholly original with a cast of unforgettable characters and will appeal to those seeking something a little different or obscure as well as those who enjoy reading about this period in history. This is a fascinating novel covering a lesser-known part of WWII and it certainly made for compelling reading. I truly hope it gets the attention it deserves as it seems like a labour of love for Ms Mengiste; I can't even imagine the amount of research that went into creating the narrative but it seems extensive. Highly recommended. Many thanks to Canongate for an ARC.

Booker 2020 Shortlisted This is a powerful and fine work of literature. It offers a thoughtful and moving account of the colonial war in the 1930s between Italy and Ethiopia by focusing on the perspectives and experiences of proud Ethiopian women warriors who join the men and even surpass them with their resilience to take the fight to the invaders. A strength of this book for me was a very considered and nuanced reflection on the relationships among colonised and coloniser, especially through the character of Ettore, a young Italian man and photographer in the army. The style and tone of the book is interesting. While not magical realist and very historically grounded in the realities of the characters' situation, it has a lyrical aspiration towards flight into myth and legend, as if in doing so it will honor and memoralise their terrible sacrifices. Some of the passages have an almost biblical cadence. Others (headed chorus) provide a collective conscience that is grounded in Greek literature. There are also sections headed "Photo", providing descriptions of and commentaries on photographic images. These are very well done, working to support and even critically comment on the work of Ettore as he captures images (many of them brutally terrible) at the order of his ruthless commander, Colonel Fucelli. These sections, and Ettore perhaps, are seeking through the forms of art, to give meaning and value to these lives that are brutalised and often ended in the midst of the carnage of war. Trying to assert even a flicker of meaning that can transcend these terrible circumstances. For example, the book opens in 1974 (nearly 40 years after the war) with Hirut returning to Adis Ababa with a box of letters and photos: "Inside the box are the many dead that insist on resurrection". The first sentence of the novel sets up this theme: "SHE DOES NOT WANT TO REMEMBER BUT SHE IS HERE AND MEMORY IS gathering bones". There is an effort by many of the characters (especially the central women) to assert this meaning and identity in the face of war, including the sexual and misogynistic violence inflicted by Ethiopian men whom they fight alongside. This spirit of defiant endurance in the Ethiopian women characters, Hirut and Aster, is conveyed with a dignified strength that I will take with me from this read. I won't comment on the narrative and metaphorical device of the Shadow King as it relates to emperor Haile Selassie and would be something of a spoiler but by the end of the novel far transcends that. Mengiste's The Shadow King very much deserves its place on the Booker shortlist.

I have mixed feelings about The Shadow King by Maaza Mengiste. On the one hand I thoroughly enjoyed the exquisite lyrical prose of Mengiste's writing, which roped me into the story almost from the very beginning. She is able to express seemingly indescribable feelings and emotions with rare finesse and delicacy. For example, her description of Aster's feelings as a young woman losing her virginity on her wedding night was gripping - capturing her fear and stubborn determination to flee. Equally captivating was her account of the protagonist, Hirut's grit and stoic resistance when she was a prisoner subjected to crude objectification by her Italian captors. On the other hand I found some aspects of the narrative jarring and at times superfluous, which slightly diminished my enthusiasm to read further. In particular, the repeated graphic rape scenes, in which Hirut is repeatedly violated by her married, master turned Ethiopian freedom fighting general, disturbing and unnecessary to the narrative. From my perspective a single account of such an incident would have sufficed. In a similar vein, the end of the story came across somewhat belabored and unrealistic. I felt as if I had to push myself to finish The Shadow King since the narrative seemed to drag on unnaturally longer than it needed to. And the ending, was anticlimactic and too fantastic to satiate me after making it so far. I had expected to be rewarded with more of Mengiste's sublime prose and beautiful imagination. Overall, I enjoyed The Shadow King and would recommend it to others without reservation, especially if you are looking to discover contemporary African writers.

By every definition, this is an epic book. It took me a little while to get through, but I'm glad I did- it was worth my time. My biggest issue is that having read the whole thing, I admired it more than I actually liked it. My rating is more of a 3.5 simply because of its lyricism; Mengiste is an obviously talented writer. But as good as the writing is, I found myself somewhat emotionally detached from the story's developments and characters. Feels like a novel I may like a bit more if I happen to re-visit it, which I probably will do if it wins the Booker Prize this week.

A Gem of a Story The Shadow King is a richly textured and carefully constructed compelling must-needed work of historical fiction. As Fascist Italy invades Ethiopia in 1935, the men prepare to defend their country, but the women of Ethiopia will not be denied to preserve their country. Mengiste wrote this storyline to honor the women of Ethiopia who fought along side the men and are too often ignored in the history of wartime. Pairing expressive language with well-drawn unforgettable characters the story grips the reader as we become involved in the intimate harrowing details of the characters against the broader background that is the history and politics of the time. A richly rewarding reading experience this memorable work of historical fiction that provides a much needed Ethiopian point-of-view on one of the beginning points of WWII and equally needed what it means to be a woman at war.

Beautiful, lyrical, writing, involving events about which I knew nothing. This was a lovely way to learn. I noted that other reviewers have found the lack of punctuation in the book problematic, but the audio version obviously doesn't have that issue, and the narrator is good.

“Who remembers what to do? she asks. Who remembers what it means to be more than what this world believes of us?” This book is utterly beautiful brilliant. I don't know much about Ethiopia's history and culture so reading this was something eye opening, a change and definitely something I want to read more! Since it is a history fiction, its very intense, a lot of trigger warning, sadness, heartbreaking, betrayal, death and grief. The writing is very intense, heavy and deep. However, Maaza's writing is very beautiful that it touches your soul and mind that get you attached to the story and characters. Most of historical fiction, its always story about men fighting the war or couples who fell in love and survive. It's definitely a nice change to see stories of women fighting the war as hard and brave as the men. Reading this book definitely need patience, its very slow pace but its so worth it. Every chapter was very short but well detailed and narrated that it just sucks you in. Highly recommend reading this beautiful brave book of heroes! “What can he know except what he sees while staring at that young woman grasping knotted silk as if she was born to be draped in it: a beauty incomprehensible and ferocious, strong enough to break through bone and settle into a heart and split it forever.”

Thank you Canongate Books for the Review Copy The Shadow King is a book that I’m tempted to shove into everyone’s hands but can understand if every other person who has read it don’t feel the same way. For one the writing style is controversial; the lack of quotations to separate dialogues from narration can be frustrating. Similarly, the poetic nature of the narration, which undoubtedly gave the book glitts, could also be too much for some readers, including me; like when a meal really bangs but you wish the salt was just a little less. Another thing to watch out for if you decide to pick this book is the slow pace at which the story unfolds; it can get very annoying but I think it’s all part of Mengiste’s art. I think she was trying to make us feel how people in wars feel; the excruciatingly slow pace of life; the uncertainty that comes with war; it’s the least we could do in our attempt to be vicarious. If you’re a fan of Laila Lalami’s The Moor’s Account then this book is for you It has successfully made my list of “Books I’ll always recommend”.

One of the most beautiful books of this last period - hard indeed. For us Italian, for us women. For us, Italian women... Another really complex book, not only on colonialism (and how Italians have behaved atrociously in Eritrea and Abyssinia) but also on how tribal habits were terrible towards women, on how military life could be a salvation - and damnation - for Jews under Mussolini, on how writing – of taking photos – can define history, life, being This is the way it has been written, so this is the way it has been remembered. But what Hirut knows, sitting in that train station so many years later, shifting to move further into the shrinking afternoon light, is that when those carnivorous invaders crossed the Gash River to make their way toward Axum, the three-column formation separated, and the lines were broken and in between those spaces, Ethiopians stepped in and began to fight These aren’t the days to pretend you’re only a wife or a sister or a mother, she says. We’re more than this. This last line will be sung as an anthem and a refrain while musicians slide a bow across the strings of a lovely masinqo: We’re more than this. The women whisper it amongst themselves: We’re more than this, we’re more than this. Carlo gets back to his feet, stumbling for balance, binoculars up again. Zoom and focus, focus, focus because: those tanks, majestic felled beasts, because: they are steel and rubber and ammunition and man is a miracle but this leaves no room for woman or song. This is impossibility itself, he thinks as he looks down on the smoky field and spies a bloom of white dresses, skirts rippling in the wind. THEY WILL SAY this did not happen. That their planes did not fly above Kidane’s army and pour mustard gas across the fighters and rivers and land. They will deny the children dead, the women scorched, the waters poisoned, the men choked. But did you see the gas? reporters will ask Ettore. Did you see it drop from those planes? Then how do you know it happened? And when he points to his mask they will shake their heads and point to the sky and say, Those are two different things, my friend, we are here to report what you saw. I’ve got good soldiers, Fucelli says, but what you do is something else. He sweeps his arms in a gesture that feels rehearsed. Romans left us their texts and paintings, their statues. We’ll leave our photographs and reels He sticks his head inside the canvas-covered bed, flinching at the sudden darkness, momentarily overwhelmed by the stench of sweat and wood, of dirt and dried blood. Ettore turns away: he has never looked directly at these prisoners. He has seen them only through the lens, and only for the purposes of arranging them in perfect light: their worth measurable in the balance of shadow and sharpness. He has found ways not to hear their pleas and curses as they pivot, poised like a dancer, on the edge of the cliff for that last picture, the final image very likely the only one they have ever taken in their life. Every photograph has become a broken oath with himself, a breach in the defenses he set up to ignore what he really is What’s that? he asks. He is surprised at the roughness in his voice, the way he so easily becomes that soldato that Fucelli wants. How natural it has been to swerve into cruelty. How effortless to be splintered by the headlines that declare every Jew an enemy and a spy. How easy it has been to read those booklets defending the prohibition against Jews owning businesses and even working in photography, then to unleash his helpless anger on those prisoners who trembled in front of him. How simple it has been for Colonel Carlo Fucelli to suggest that he does not belong here. That he might not be Italian. That obedience is his only hope. Leo Navarra did indeed write everything about himself to his son in many letters. In fact, Leo surprised himself and broke his silence to reveal every aspect of his existence to Ettore. He wrote himself into being Because Aster was right: girls like her were born to fit into the world, the world was not built to mold around her. Because there are those born to own things, and those brought forth to keep those things in their rightful place.

Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2020, The Shadow King is not an easy read if you are looking for a breezy read. This one is multi layered and will put you through loops with its deep questioning of the power that comes from gender, class, race and what war does to people, the dehumanisation that comes from the quest for glory and making a name. Author Maaza Mengiste takes readers to unfamiliar terrain: Ethiopia in 1935 is under threat from the forces led by Mussolini and the growing fascist ideas that looks at nations being forged on the lines of race. The people of the country are outnumbered, poorly equipped but not lacking in its resistance, not even when the Emperor accepts Exile to a foreign country. The narrative on war or rather, what goes on behind a war to people who are pitted against one another gives readers an insight into the inner battles over humanity, over morality and over where women are placed. It also looks at collective and personal memory in terms of how history looks at war as the exploits of valour of men apart from the obvious tone of who is the victor. Hirut,a central protagonist is one you are not likely to forget in a hurry: her journey from a young carefree girl to an unsure employee and one swept by the forces of history, one that will not give her or other women their due. What happens with Hirut when she is employed by Aster and then how the war places both women in the same category and yet in such marked difference due to the difference in social positions between the two is a powerful turn in the narrative. This is a book to be read with patience, one you need to contemplate and immerse yourself in.

Condé still has her wit and dry sense of humour. Classed as a near reimagining of the story of Jesus, The Gospel According is wholly Caribbean. From the tone, world, people, and issues; island nations, overseas departments, and territories are firmly rooted in this narrative. I love that Condé knows when in her story to be blunt, when to use poetics, and when sparseness serves the best imagery. This story has it all. Pascal is no saviour. He is merely a man with ideas and who wants to see a better life for everybody on his island, his life, and even the world. From his birth and into his adulthood, he is haunted by his origin, who his parents are, and what it means that he grew apart from them. Add to that the rumor of his godlike father and his expected path of following in those footsteps. The complicated familial and filial relationship also becomes an integral part of Pascal's life. Behind this narrative lies a story of change, perception, love, life, and betrayal. Condé is merely transposing what was miraculous in the New Testament to our world and time. All the themes she explores here of race and identity, colonialism, and its legacy are all simply told with her usual sarcastic and sharp voice. Even with its 'simplicity', Condé uses this novel to touch on many complex issues that blanket many lands where the long arm of colonialism still has yet to entirely release its grip.

Enjoyed this one. I could spend days in Condé’s stunning prose.

Novel set on fictional CARIBBEAN islands The Gospel According to the New World is the latest work by reimagines the story of the Son of God but it’s set in modern times and relocated to the Caribbean. Pascal is a mixed-race child born in a stable at Easter. His parents are Maya, an unmarried mother, and Corazón Tejara, an academic and a benefactor but also an absentee father. Will Pascal be recognised for what he is? Does he come to save the world? This is the premise of Maryse Condé’s book, and it is fascinating to explore what might happen. In The Gospel According to the New World, this saviour de nos jours has a hard time trying to discover what his role is in life. The idea is intriguing, though it’s somewhat frustrating for the poor Son of God, who can’t seem to catch a break. He’s told he has to change the world and make it a better place. But how? We follow Pascal’s somewhat meandering journey as he tries to find a purpose in life, to understand more about himself and perhaps even to meet his biological father, an encounter that he feels will explain everything. Along the way he meets a cast of characters who are uncannily similar to Jesus’ disciples in the New Testament and who offer him support or threats, according to the roles of their Biblical equivalent. Despite being told he’s the Son of God, Pascal can’t understand the reverence others show toward him and he certainly doesn’t seem to deserve it. He smokes, has casual sex, is ineffectual and full of doubts. Not exactly messiah material. The author employs gritty descriptions of the various communities that Pascal travels through in his quest, with their crime, substance abuse and violence towards minorities. This contrast sharply with the descriptions of the settings: the natural beauty of the Caribbean islands. Pascal visits other islands that are governed by contrasting political ideologies, and he meets people who follow many of the world’s religions, none of which achieve anything approaching Utopia. The novel explores themes of sexual inequality, racism, religion and persecution. Meanwhile Pascal himself is inward looking, usually wringing his hands over his own position, which is much better than most of those he meets. The humour that author uses is delightful, such as repurposing well-known Biblical phrases in inappropriate contexts and ironically commenting on the commercialisation of Christmas. It’s a little reminiscent of The Life of Brian in this respect. In addition to the Biblical references there are also echoes of Swift’s Modest Proposal (and many other literary works). I’m not sure that Condé’s novel reaches any firm conclusion about how society can be changed for the better, despite her assertion that it illustrates the power of faith. I loved the rich descriptions, but I felt that the translation was too literal in places. Nevertheless, this is still a book that can be read and enjoyed on many levels.

A fun read. This novel, Conde's last, was dictated to her husband/translator due to her failing eyesight. It kind of shows in that the writing seems rather disjointed in places. Reminded me of a picaresque novel like Don Quixote, in which our hero encounters various characters in memorable scenes, but the overall story doesn't seem to go much of anywhere. Still, a lot of fun to read. The novel concerns a man named Pascal who might be divine in some way. He does a few "miracles," most of which are disputed, and his life parallels that of Jesus in some ways. He's a very flawed Messiah, however, if he is one at all.

Shortlisted for the International Booker, I was very touched by this one. Maryse Condé is a well loved Caribbean author. This is the first book of hers I’ve read, however it’s considered her final book. It’s my understanding that she verbally dictated the novel to her husband and he translated it. This background had me fascinated going into this book. The language, the story, the way Condé slips in little nuggets that totally transform the narrative we’re evocative. I enjoyed this one and can see why it made the shortlist.

From my review in the Irish Times: Fernanda Melchor’s first novel to appear in English is an insane wall of text, a phalanx of prose rallied between the margins with strict orders to destroy the reader. Hurricane Season is the story of the Witch and her power over the inhabitants of the Mexican village of La Matosa. Melchor’s extremely graphic prose throughout would have Georges Bataille himself reaching for a crucifix but it is a commendation of translator Sophie Hughes that the novel never reads like cheap smut. It is often beautiful, often harrowing, and deeply affecting while . Almost instantly hailed as a modern classic of Mexican literature upon its publication, Hurricane Season can finally unleash its torrent upon English-language readers. Quite the apt title.

Shortlisted for the Booker International Prize 2020! I should really stop judging books by their titles. Because I picked this book and thought, "you know what? This is going to be about a hurricane that sweeps away a little town or a village and obviously I'm going to be subjected to the altered dynamics of a dysfunctional family" (groans in exasperation). Well, sue me. Of course a Booker shortlisted book wasn't going to be about a damn clothesline getting swept away by a hurricane, thereby forcing all of the villagers to live in a nudist society. Oh no, this is much dirtier. This book is so filthy, it would make Henry Miller cower. Make no mistake: this is no erotica. It's a dark, nefarious, salacious tale full of drugs, abuse - both physical and emotional, rape, pedophilia, bestiality, misogyny, homophobia and murder. It's not even much of a tale, really. It's more a force to be reckoned with. It's also part murder mystery - the murder of a queer witch, with each chapter offering a new perspective on the crime. It takes so much of the evil from this world and ambushes you with it. It challenges every bit of that incorrigible Aristotelian virtue you have ingrained into yourself and makes you wonder what would become of this society if humans are left completely free to exercise all of their malevolent desires - really, this book will make you squirm, at every page and almost at every sentence. But fear not! It does offer a conclusion, of sorts. Don’t you worry, don’t fret, you just lie there, that’s it. The sky flashed with lightning and a muffled boom shook the earth. The rain can’t hurt you now, and the darkness doesn’t last forever. See there? See that light shining in the distance? The little light that looks like a star? That’s where you’re headed, he told them, that’s the way out of this hole. Kids, only pick this book if you are willing to tango with the dark side. You'll wonder why such a book was shortlisted for the International Booker prize until you realize that in making you uncomfortable and disgusted, this book has served its purpose. 4.5 stars

Now shortlisted for the prestigious international 2021 Dublin Literary Award I think we ought to read only the kind of books that wound and stab us. If the book we’re reading doesn’t wake us up with a blow on the head, what are we reading it for? So that it will make us happy, as you write? Good Lord, we would be happy precisely if we had no books, and the kind of books that make us happy are the kind we could write ourselves if we had to. But we need the books that affect us like a disaster, that grieve us deeply, like the death of someone we loved more than ourselves, like being banished into forests far from everyone, like a suicide. A book must be the axe for the frozen sea inside us. That is my belief. Frank Kafka I was lead to the above quote from an interview between the author of this book and her translator Sophie Hughes – the author saying “That’s why I wanted to make an experience of Hurricane Season. It seemed to me that the only possible way to communicate this particular story, even if that meant grabbing the reader by the throat and roughing her up a little. But then that’s exactly the kind of books I like, the ones that are like a natural disasters, the ones Kafka said were like axes for the frozen sea within us”. Having been chosen with a group of other Goodreads friends to read “Tyll” as part of the Reading Agency’s shadowing of the 2020 International Booker Prize, I decided to read the rest of the shortlist – something I had previously decided not to do and instead concentrate my reading time (severely hampered by COVID-19) on the Women’s Prize longlist. The reading of this book was particularly appropriate as I read it in the second half of May: - Two weeks after the time of the year when the main events of the book are set (in early May); - Two weeks before the start of the Atlantic Hurricane Season (which gives the book its name – see below – and whose fallout – like many natural and man-made disasters - occupies a large chunk of my working life) - And in a week which I should, except for the Coronavirus, have spent working in Mexico – visiting Mexico City and Monterrey. This book is set in a very different Mexico to that which I visit – both socially/economically and geographically. This book is set in the vicinity of a lightly fictionalised Gulf Coast Veracruz, in a town wracked by poverty, corruption and crime and misogynistic/homophobic language and violence. The book is not so much set in that society but infused with it – particularly with the language and violence and that makes the book an extremely uncomfortable read – a book that (picking up on Kafka’s quote) wounds and stabs the reader’s sensibilities. And it is a book which has its origins (appropriately) in a natural disaster – landslides following a 1978 Hurricane (a fictionalised mash up I think of the timing of Tropical Storm Bess and the impact of Hurricane Earl, which would have impacted the author’s place of birth exactly as she was writing the book). These landslides cause the death of the town’s witch leaving her child orphaned. And the remainder of the book traces the origins of a man-made disaster – the discovery of the murder of that child (now themselves known as The Witch), tracing it by way of a series of lengthy chapters: the first of which traces the story of The Witch, and the remainder those caught up in her murder starting with Yesenia (who sees her hated, drug-addled cousin Luismi and another local waster carrying the Witch’s body into a truck driven by Munra, a crippled drunkard, married to Luismi’s prostitute birth-mother). The other chapters are narrated by: Munra; Norma an under-age girl who takes refuge with Luismi after prolonged sexual abuse from her own stepfather leads to her falling pregnant (with the narration also hijacked by Luismi’s mother Chabela); the second waster – Brando. The chapters are written in a breathless style – each a single paragraph, relentless both in their repetition and forwards momentum and in their uncompromising and language and description. With the exception of the Brando chapter, which I felt tipped too much into gratuitousness and rather marred the overall experience of the book, I overall felt that the propulsive way in which the author wrote overcame the repulsive manner of the actual words and subject matter, so that against my better judgement I was drawn into and through the story to emerge as though from a disaster – feeling fortunate mainly to have survived and roughed up by what I had read.

A bleak, grim, and explicit depiction on the deep wounds that poverty, misogyny, homophobia, drug abuse, and superstition leaves on communities. Told in the oral storytelling style and filled with unreliable and intensely real narrators, we see the pain and anger that builds up from a lifetime of hardships, the need to blame someone for those hardships, and the urge to find an outlet to channel rage and desire. Fernanda Melchor handles these incredibly complicated issues with grace and without judgement- it is brutal, honest, but recognizes that each character is a victim of poverty and societal neglect. A very relevant novel.

yet another one to add into the “wtf did i just read and why did i like it so much” category

have to recognize the historical significance of this monster of a book: fiction, textbook, history, propaganda (jk) call you want you want. it's a stark reminder of the Korean people's struggle through decades, the injustice of Japanese and later on American colonialism, and most importantly, the vital need of socialist movements. it's reassuring to know how fast the world and circumstances change. but it's more terrifying to know that we're never that far off a political tug of war ...

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2024. Hwang Sok-yong's latest novel is compelling and ambitious. It feels like an extended fictionalised version of his autobiography, The Prisoner, threading together a century of Korean history through the lens of three generations of a family of rail workers and a laid-off factory employee staging a high-altitude sit-in. The novel vividly depicts the lives of ordinary working Koreans, offering a nuanced portrayal of their struggles, resilience, and dreams amidst the backdrop of significant historical events of the 20th century. The story begins with Yi Jino, a mid-fifties factory worker and staunch unionist who has recently been laid off. In an act of defiance, Jino climbs to the top of a large chimney and stages a protest, refusing to descend until the factory owners negotiate with the union. As he endures isolation atop the chimney, Jino reminisces about his past and is visited by ghosts of family members, friends, and others who have impacted his life. These visits interweave with Korea’s political history, particularly during Japanese colonisation. The narrative of Mater 2-10 spans several generations, starting with Jino’s great-grandfather, Baekman, a railroad worker and machinist during Japanese colonisation. Baekman’s passion for trains and the railroads is passed down to his son, Ilcheol, and his grandson, Jisan. The novel captures the dedication and hardships faced by these industrial workers, offering a poignant look at their lives within the broader historical and social context. The character development in Mater 2-10 is also something to be commended on. Jino, in particular, is a deeply sympathetic character whose determination and defiance are both inspiring and heart-wrenching. His interactions with the ghosts of his family provide insight into the generational trauma and resilience of Korean industrial workers. The historical backdrop, from Japanese occupation to the Korean War and beyond, is meticulously researched and vividly portrayed, offering a profound understanding of Korea's turbulent history. Hwang Sok-yong incorporates historical figures such as Yi Jaeyu, a labour activist and proponent of an independent Korea. His struggle against Japanese colonialism and for the rights of Korean workers serves as a significant thread in the novel, highlighting the deep-rooted resistance within Korean society. Hwang Sok-yong's personal and political beliefs deeply intertwined with the plot. As a renowned activist and socialist, he has long advocated for giving voice to overlooked narratives, including the role of Kim Il-sung and the communist movement in Korea's liberation from Japanese colonialism. Hwang Sok-yong argues that acknowledging the contributions of communist activists is crucial for a comprehensive understanding of Korea's history. This perspective is evident in the novel, which depicts the sacrifices and struggles of labour activists, often vilified as "commies" post-Liberation south of the 38th parallel. Hwang Sok-yong's autobiography, The Prisoner, provides further insight into the themes explored in this novel, recounting his experiences and political struggles. As known well in South Korea, in 1993, he was arrested upon his return to South Korea after a long exile for visiting North Korea, an act forbidden under the National Security Act. His unwavering commitment to understanding and bridging the divide between North and South Korea is reflected in both his autobiography and Mater 2-10. The English translation of Mater 2-10 owes much to the skill and dedication of Sora Kim-Russell and Youngjae Josephine Bae in bringing the novel's rich texture and historical depth to an English-speaking audience. Many Korean words and honorifics are preserved to convey the flow of conversations between characters in Korean. However, the novel's length may be daunting. The dense historical context and multiple (sometimes overlapping) timelines can be overwhelming, making it difficult to track the various characters and events. Additionally, the blending of folklore and realism, including the presence of ghosts, enriches the narrative but may not appeal to all readers, particularly those preferring straightforward historical fiction.

this book is too important to give it a lower rating. I did find it was incredibly dense and sometimes to a fault, but honestly if you're not looking to speed-read this then it's absolutely brilliant. I was already familiar with the history but it was still so moving to see it from this perspective, I really appreciate ehtr author's aim of giving a story to the unsung heroes of this era - the workers and labourers that are often forgotten

Many thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for providing me with an early copy of this book in return for an honest review. The book tells the story of how Korean industrial workers fared during the tribulations of the 20th century, starting with Japanese colonisation, through the two wars, and then in modern times. The story is told through the perspectives of one family, across four of its generations. It is also a story of Korea journey towards independence and statehood, the role socialism and communism played in this journey, and how it affects the South Korea of today. Overlaid on this is the role that railroads played in modernising Korea and building one country. Lastly, it is a story of fundamental human hopes, fears, loves, and struggles, without the drama so often associated with them. The form the storytelling takes is often reminiscent of a non-fiction book, and puts more focus on events, facts, and socio-political context than characters. Lots of things to love about the book. Most of all, I learned a lot. Korean history in the 20th century is something that I just haven't really been exposed to, and this book did a great job in shedding light on some of the more complex aspects of it, while remaining entertaining. I also learned a lot about the story of the working men and women of Korea, and the role their class awareness played in the history of the peninsula overall. The microcosm of events the author delves into (especially the tension between the Korean independence sympathisers on the one hand, and the Koreans collaborating with Japanese occupation) provide fertile ground to understand better the root causes for the split between the Koreas. Fascinating. The thing I struggled most with was the relatively dry style. I have to admit I'm much more excited about character driven stories, and this one was not. It was difficult for me to read (took almost 3x the time than an average book), and I struggled sometimes to push through. I did find it fundamentally interesting, and I just didn't want to give up on the opportunity. Eventually, the outcome was great, and I'm very happy to have gone through this, but I just can't say it was easy. The book is a monumental piece of Korean literature, reflecting incredible depth of research, and attuned to the nuances of the national psyche and its root causes. Highly recommended to anyone interested in Korean history, history overall, and how average human beings persist and survive over generations of unrest.

A book I found illuminating and pretty engaging, but I don’t know that I could recommend it super widely. At times it reads as just straight-up non-fiction in the way it tells the historic narrative, which I found interesting, but I can imagine not being to everyone’s taste. Some sections could get dry and overly expository, and it did make the flow a little weird, where it would often shift into almost textbook explanations of historic events and people. I probably didn’t need quite so much detail on the 20th century rail system, as much as I appreciated the trains as the unifying symbol for the story. But I did really appreciate the way it dug into events like the Liberation period from the perspective of more regular people, and things like the rage over the US’s continued support for Japanese collaborators such as members of the police force. I did like the way the broader historic narrative was told through the story of connected generations of members of the same family, as well as the use of more dreamlike elements, and the interweaving of many smaller stories. The links all across the century communicated well the sense of dogged persistence and hope even through continued repression. The focus on grass-roots efforts of workers striving to improve their lot in life and society in general was engaging, and it struck a balance between highlighting the necessary hopefulness, without feeling overly romantic or idealised. It also did a pretty good job exploring the different reactions people have to repressive systems, from fighting, to a more resigned acquiescence, to collaborating, and the reasons why. I was also pleasantly surprised by the writing of the female characters, who were given a good amount of agency, voice, and complexity without judgement.

Quite tricky to write a review for this as I am so so interested in the subject matter its difficult to divorce it from the book, while at the same time on paper this sounded like my absolute perfect book and I had extremely high expectations because of that. I don't think it met those (maybe unrealistic) expectations but it's stil a very very good book which I found both deeply enjoyable and rewarding to read. The book has an incredibly impressive scope and manages to cover huge amounts of political and economic upheaval, over a long period of incredibly impactful Korean history, both at a macro level but also in the small details of normal people's lives. It also manages to keep a really consistent forward moving temp, using historical details and facts to add depth and insights into the narrative without getting too bogged down in them. However, for me I think this is ultimately why this book is a four and not a five - it covers so much, from so many angles, that I think I would have preferred to linger a little longer with individual characters and really get to watch all these circumstances and situations unfurl in who they are over a longer time and more detail. Doing that would mean this would be at least a 700 page book and I am also aware that is probably a matter of person preference, so I still wouldn't hesitate to recommend this to anyone who has even a passing history in Korean/world/labour movement history at the start of the 20th century and also enjoys that packed up in a well written slightly magical realism-flavoured bundle.

A very poignant book, that despite the fragmented timeline and POV, never feels too disjointed. This book offers perspective on the workings of life in an oppressed society. People turn against each other, and often, the cruelty of life means that even when one achieves their life's work, they receive nothing for it themselves. In a way, it is a beautiful demonstration of the ways in which power is consolidated, people are radicalized, and the working class is slowly crushed by capitalism. Yet this book doesn't paint communism or socialism as paragons to be held as the answer either, and makes deliberate the idea that so long as there are humans who seek to take advantage of others, no system will truly ever work.

Really enjoyed this book. It took me a while to get through and I took a break from it part way through but I'm very glad I came back and finished it. It's a long book and switched regularly between time lines so can be hard to follow but it's well worth the effort if you persevere.

In modern-day Seoul, a laid-off worker stages a protest atop a factory chimney - as the months pass, he communes with his ancestors, three generations of railway workers over the first half of the 20th century… I felt really positive about this one on finishing, even declaring that it had a strong chance of winning the InternationalBooker. In hindsight, I think it’s because I learnt so much from it. The bulk of the story is set during the years of Korea’s Japanese occupation before WWII, which I knew nothing about, and the characters are part of the working classes - I also learnt a lot about the communist movement(s) in occupied Korea, something I also knew nothing about. But the thing is, the pacing of this book is a shocker (to be polite), and the more I think about it, the more it irritates me. With a lot of characters to keep track of, it took me quite some time to get into, until I suddenly realised I was hooked on the story and invested in (some of) the characters and couldn’t put it down. Then, towards the end, there are a few major information dumps which, while very interesting (particularly around the US administration of Korea immediately after Japan’s surrender), completely stuttered the flow of the story. And periodically, we come back to the guy up his chimney stack, whose story simply wasn’t as riveting as his that of his ancestors’. I appreciated the Translators’ Note at the start discussing the reasoning around their translations of honorifics and place names. I enjoyed the inclusion of the old place names, but a map would have been a welcome addition, as would a family tree or character list. My complete unfamiliarity with Korean honorifics (not the book’s fault) added to my initial confusion over characters. An ambitious multi-generational story, principally focussed on workers’ lives and fight for rights in Japanese-occupied Korea, highly enlightening but the detailed information dumps resulted in dreadful pacing.

If you want to know the history of a place, look what her blue-collared people were doing over a period of time. MATER 2-10 by Hwang Sok-yong, translated from the Korean by Sora Kim-Russell & Youngjae Josephine Bae, traces a century of Korea right from its invasion by Japan, partition, the Korean war - all through the prism of lives of ordinary labourers & rail workers. Kid of a junkie is a junkie. Kid of a pimp is a pimp. And kid of a rebel will always be a rebel. Jino, a factory worker, stages a protest for more than a year opposing lay offs by the factory owners by staying on the top of a 16 storey factory chimney. In those 400 days at the top the history of Korea takes place tracing 3 generations of Jino's family. Enters the right load of magical realism where Jino can see the family members of his past. His great grandfather and grandfather - Baekman and Ilchoel, the "unconscious, colonised petit bourgeois, focused only on survival" kind of rail technicians. Icheol, his granduncle, who is a staunch communist. His father Jisan, a prisoner of war. And Jino himself, a loyal unionist. With countless other characters that we meet in this story, some of which are our fellow comrades while some are traitors. This book is an anatomy of colonisation, of how dissent is dehumanised, cultural changes are forced and most importantly how there is no freedom for the working-class people. It is all just a handover of rule from one coloniser to the other. Magic realism like reappearing of the dead, predictions of the future, unnatural bravery during natural calamities, were so fun. There is a lot of history in this book and there is a lot of fiction too, a smoother blending of the two would have made it better, though. I am going to argue with anyone that says the size of this book is a con. The size and the sum of characters increase the scale of this book so much, although, a more stylized and evocative prose would have been more fulfilling. Ultimately, MATER 2-10 is a rich & rightful ode to the workers of the world.

Shortlisted for the 2024 International Booker Award, this multi-generational tale of a working family highlights Korean history, from Japanese-occupied Joseon to the modern Korea of today, through a lens of workers who helped build the foundations of the incredible progress the country experienced in the second half of the 20th Century. As such, the representation of each character reveals a window into the choices available to Korean workers striving to maintain dignity within employment, the demands of their families, and their own sense of sanity in complex times. The Japanese Occupation sits front and centre, as does the struggle worker’s unions face in dealing with the huge companies, or Chaebol, now in power throughout Korea. The tale itself is epic and demands great intellectual effort from the reader. Interactions between several characters from the different generations overlap, the narrative timeline is nonlinear, and there are several honorifics that must be remembered. In essence, there are several moving parts; however, the effort expended is worth it, as a deeply rich and compelling narrative unfolds, replete with important moments in Korean history and reflections of those who experienced their repercussions. 4 stars. By no means a simple book, its strength lies in the author’s ability to weave characters deeply into the varying constructs that necessitate their individual growth. As such, the reader comes across several individualistically determined characters, who, despite the struggles they face, personify the social values typical of the Korean people, and of the essential call for respecting and empowering the unionisation of the modern worker.

Final book in the Booker Prize shortlist and probably and 8/10. This novel is WORK, and if you aren’t interested in history of Korea, the Japanese imperialism, or socialist and communist ideology, then you will probably not enjoy this book. I found it two be written in two very different voices, where it constantly switched between factual style of history non fiction, and a standard novel voice, while not bad I felt the connection to the characters was constantly ring interrupted by it. Now I am interested in Korean history, Japanese history, and fall very in line as a socialist leftie, so this book was for me. One of the thing I found difficult, and this is not a criticism, but characters of the same family will have similar names, each character will have both a Korean, Japanese, and if they’re a revolutionary, a code name, so I did struggle to connect characters as they could have 3 names. This isn’t a critique of that, as it is very much a core identity of the novel, it’s about culture and having it erased, I just suggest you pay attention when names and characters are introduced, is it’s very easy to fall behind and need to pull threads together. All up I found this the easiest to read than almost all the Booker nominations, read it if you are interested in the subject matter, avoid it if you aren’t.

I read this novel in Korean and found the story very relevant to the generations of my parents and grand parents. My father, born in 1942, told me a similar story about how chaotic the country was in struggling between the ideology of left and right. During the war, the town he lived in was occupied by (South Korean) national army and (North Korean) communist army in alternating days. One night he was interrogated if he supports communist or not, and on another night he was asked to pledge he is a strong advocate of national army. That happened 70 years ago, and now mist have all been cleared. The very country has become the poster child of successful post-war democracy and advanced capitalism. Those hard-earned wealth and freedom cannot be compromised with the remiscence of radical and anarchistic ideas, such as boycotting works and destroying the facilities of factories. That said, I love the briliant story telling of the author but find it outdated when he described long period of strike due to being fired from work as a triumphant activity of laborers. This conflicts the basic idea of the capitalism based on free market. The fired workers should start finding another work instead of climbing up the tower and play up as a Robin Hood.

would give this a 4.5 if i was not cruelly constrained by goodreads rating systems. this book feels so fast paced and dynamically moving, representing the way korea itself was rapidly changing at the time. it takes you from person to person, switching perspectives without you ever noticing the jump, highlighting how the desire to liberate the working classes of korea are ever present. i think it juxtaposes really well between these magical elements as well as a lot of complex history - i now understand how the train systems in korea were first built and actually really enjoyed the discussions of political organisation. there is so much detail here, but also action and tension as being a socialist looking out for your people under brutal japanese colonialism is actually really fucking hard to pull off. the only major criticism i would have is that it rushes to very rapidly cover jino's father's story towards the end - which is understandably less interesting, but if it's included it should feel as if it has more weight to it, or it could have just simply not been included. it draws away from the ending , which i think was powerful otherwise.

A handful of books I read this year centered on trains and/or protest, Mater 2-10 being one of them. In hindsight it would have been interesting to compare their themes of modernization and cultural change. I appreciate the author’s choice to focus on industrial workers. At first, I was more engaged with Jino’s perspective as he stages an aerial sit-in in protest of a factory closure, but as one can imagine the days start to look the same up there. So he takes the reader into his memories and into his family’s past. The prose has little embellishment, sometimes reading like a history book (with some magical realism elements), but every now and then there are some really poetic sentiments. My knowledge of Korean history isn’t super robust, so I like that this gave me more insight into the time between Japanese occupation and liberation (and from a Korean perspective), although a work of fiction. I read “Heavy Snow”, an excerpt from Han Kang’s upcoming We Do Not Part that I believe addresses the Jeju uprising, which happened around the same time as some of the parts of this novel. I will try to keep it on my radar for next year.

I would certainly say that I learned a lot reading this book. Like other reviewers, I would argue that Mater 2-10 puts the historical into historical fiction. Sok-yong did the research and it shows: the minute details of a century's worth of history shine. That said, I don't read novels for historical details, I read em for characters. Although the many different personalities through the book were engaging, the sheer number of different characters, all with multiple names (see note below!) often led me down the path of pure confusion. This is a multigenerational epic, but I still don't want to pull up a spreadsheet to keep everything straight. One of the most fascinating parts of this book to me was the translators' note at the start. Their warning that context would be lost through the translation to English was very helpful as I navigated the various names (particularly those of the female characters) throughout time and change in family makeup. Once again, learned a lot, all without meaning to!

This took me awhile to get through. The book is long but at some point I connected with it and then I sailed through the rest. A fictional distillation of many real people's stories. The author wanted felt that the struggles of Korea's leftists in the 20th century had not been adequately been recorded in the countries literature. He is well-versed in this history himself so it is coming from someone who knows what he is writing about. A mix of realism with bits of Korean "magical realism" combine to tell the stories of largely forgotten people on an epic scale. These people had it rough. They enjoyed about one day as a free country between the time that the colonizers of Japan were defeated and the colonizers of American arrived to take control. Admittedly, this is not gonna work for everyone but it's an important piece of Korean literature and preserve (via fiction) the stories of people that time might otherwise forget. Tales of brave people from the tops of smokestacks to the basements of Japanese torture cells.

This Korean novel is strange and often quite demanding for the reader. The author narrates a powerful tale of three generations of railway workers beginning during the Japanese occupation, covering the US occupation, the war with North Korea and liberation. The broader theme, however, is the persecution of industrial labour groups and communists by the Japanese, the Americans and by the Koreans themselves during this period. Interestingly, women played a key role in the underground activities and protests and were subject to the same brutal retribution as the men. Through a generational approach, we trace the modernisation of Korea, the significance of the rail system in its history, and learn of some unique protest practices eg. living at the top of a crane or on the upper deck of a tall chimney for long periods; in the case of one of the book's protagonists, over a year. While this aspect of the book was very readable and engaging, these parts were interspersed with long tracts on the history of the labour movement including a plethora of detail on events and the implications of these. This meant toggling back and forth from the intimate, warmth of family characters to a dry, factual 'history text' style without the colour of human interest. It was an odd combination of two very different styles and it made for quite heavy going. Another difficulty and one the translator addressed in the foreword was the fluid name changes - mostly of the men. In the course of the novel some characters had three different names and although it did get easier as one progressed, in the beginning one had to keep stopping to wonder “ now which one is this?” This novel was shortlisted for the International Booker prize and I pondered long and hard about whether ( in my opinion, of course) it deserved its placement. After finishing it and reflecting, I decided it was, on account of its scope and depth, its brilliant insights into Korean family life and culture during a long period of its history, and for its spotlight on industrial workers as the heroes of the fight for human rights, fair labour practices and liberation.

An inter-generational, profoundly historical move following the evolution of Korea from Japan colonization to its post-WWII, modern setting. The novel is dense with information and gives a compete historical background while following the lives of Yi Jino and his family. There are some great touches of magical realism here and there, with the women in the family blessed with superhuman abilities that i them through major life events, with ancestors watching over the new generations as they carry on their will. Because if there’s something all “Three Generations” depicted here have in common, is the political struggle and the fight for equality, that runs from the underground “book clubs” to the sit in on top of the chimney held in the present day. The language is simple and clear, and the book flows quite well in spite of its length. I would have appreciated sometimes more psychological development of the characters, which gets a bit lost in the historical context and the description of actions. Overall, a great book to better understand the history of Korea.

looong epic read based on a sprawling family tree (had to write all the names down to keep track) spanning two centuries of rail road workers on the Manchuria railway in Korea from 1900 onwards. Underground communist activity, the rise of trade unions and plenty (to skim read) of locomotive detail. Choo choo! hugely detailed on the era of Joseon Manchuko Japanese oppression ending with 1945 and Korean independence slash liberation and the peninsula divided. It was interesting to read about the economic slump of the American handover years. The Hirohito surrender speeches were amazing and I loved that this historical narrative was told through an unexpected sprinkling of magical realism. not a light read - a multi generational saga. “For all those labourers that have been reduced to a historical speck of dust”

This book amazingly encapsulated and recalled Korean history, at times the political tension leaves you on the edge of your seat and other times, you're immersed in lyrical tales of a family history. It is an interesting book for historical fiction lovers, and the Korean words left in the novel makes it fun and authentic. I will say the details that start to talk about the overall communist movement in Korea becomes a bit tiring to read and I felt that the ending of the novel, that goes into the events after Liberation becomes less intricately tied to the central family and thus feels somewhat rushed. It is also a hefty book but a good one to put on your list.

This is not an easy book to read. I'm not sure if that is because of the style (which is unusual) or the way it was translated. To me this is an anthropology story (yes that's weird) which will teach you more about both the history of Korea during the twentieth century but also how the people lived and survived. At the beginning of the 20th, Korea was an indigenous kingdom, it was taken over by the Japanese Empire in the 1910s, during WW2 it was treated as a conquered nation where the Japanese tried to wipe out their culture, after the was the nation was split into the two countries we know today. You will learn more than you expect (or maybe want to know).

The story of 4 generations of Koreans through early socialism and Japanese conquest, then more briefly WW2 and labour struggles in modern Korea. Hard to follow characters at first - I made a family tree - and the explanations of socialism didnt interest me but it was a story of a situation that was new. All hangs on 50 year old current character who spends over a year on top of a factory chimney as protest over the factory letting long term staff go.

*** Now on the short list for the 2023 Booker Prize! What are you? “If I Survive You” is an eight story mosaic depicting a Jamaican family’s struggles to establish their lives once they land in America. The brilliant first story, “In Flux,” hits with a question the characters never completely shake: “What Are You?” Trelawny is in fifth grade in Miami now. The kids choose sides and demand to know what he is… is he black? Is he Spanish? He is asked what language his mother speaks… it certainly has a funny accent. She tells him he is a little bit of this, a little bit of that– but that is not the one word answer people want. His brother Delano tells him they are black in America, not black in Jamaica. The confusion only thickens as his mother warns him not to bring any “nappy-headed” girl around and for God’s sake please do not bring home a white girl. The Jamaican kids do not consider him legit as he is not in tune with their culture or their homeland. Throughout his life the lack of an identity to bond with will muddle up his self-image. The remaining seven stories of the family are told from different points of view. Trelawny and Delano, very different personality types, fight in their own way trying to succeed. They skirmish with each other and with their father in the effort to make a better life for themselves. Along the way we get Hurricane Andrew, the recession, homelessness, racism from all sides, and the ordeal of a number of sketchy jobs. Trelawny is hired as a building manager where the expectation is to treat the elderly tenants callously, seeing what information he can gather to generate more evictions and more rent increases. Later he finds himself involved with a woman after answering her Craigslist ad– she was asking to be given a black eye. Trelawny is a little uneasy about this… but, well, forty dollars is forty dollars. This is Jonathan Escoffery’s first book and is rock solid. The narrative flies along with a beautiful balance of humor, compassion and heartbreak– landing the sense that these lives are real. A debut this strong promises great things for the future. Highly recommended. Thank you to Farrar, Straus and Giroux and NetGalley for providing the advance reader copy in exchange for an honest review.

Very strong collection of interconnected short stories dealing with Jamaican diasporic identity, Black masculinity, fatherhood, fraught family and sibling dynamics, aftermath of hurricanes, varying politics among varying communities one finds oneself in, mixed race social realities, Miami…

I became interested in reading this debut novel after watching a Zoom conversation with the author, Jonathan Escoffery, which was hosted by the publisher. It is the story of a Jamaican family who have come to Miami in the hopes of finding a better, safer life and is told in short stories, each of which move the story a bit farther along in time. 'What are you?' Trelawny, the family's youngest son was born in America, but finds himself constantly asked this question by his classmates and neighbors until he begins to wonder himself. 'I'm an American!' doesn't seem to cut it. His mother says he's a little of this, a little of that. That's not very helpful so he spends his youth trying to find the answer to the question of who he is, never quite feeling like he fits in anywhere. I think this is my favorite story of the collection because it depicts so well the identity issues he's confronting. It's also told with a wry sense of humor. He's not Jamaican in his own eyes--he doesn't like the music or the food and is embarrassed by his parents' patois. He's too black for some; he's too white for others; his hair is too long and curly, he doesn't speak Spanish, he doesn't like sports. His love of books gives him a soft spot to land. And then there's the family's dysfunction. When his parents split up, his father takes his older brother Delano with him and leaves Trelawny with his mother. Doesn't his father want him? Isn't he good enough in his father's eyes? The answer to that question comes in the next chapter in which we hear his father's story. His relationship to Trelawny IS as bad as the kid fears and reaches a cataclysmic point at the father's retirement party. Most of the stories are about Trelawny's struggles but there is also a story about his brother Delano on a very bad day and one of their cousin, Cukie Panton, who has been wondering what kind of man his white father really is. I thought that one was excellent. This is a fresh new voice on the scene writing about 'otherness' in our society. I will look forward to seeing what's next to come from this author. I received an arc from the author and publisher via NetGalley. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are entirely my own.

Snorting the powdery heap of a man's unicorn-horn. Punching a woman's face because she pays for it. Watching a white couple having sex, because they pay for it. Paying for your fate of being black ... but are you? "If I survive you" is a novel consisting of eight short stories, which vary in quality but are all authentic. Some of them are bizarre, tragicomic, bleak. They are all connected and deal especially with the ethnic identity of a Jamaican American, his rivalry with his older brother and his father's egotism. There is an air of determinism over everything, of human failure - literally and morally - and a desperate hope that everything could still turn out well, which the reader sees increasingly fading. In some respects, Trelawny is a modern Woyzeck. Although he does not suffer from schizophrenia, he has to deal with the problems of a society that have intensified over the centuries. Or rather: they have become visible. He allows himself to be humiliated for the money of the rich and he cannot escape the milieu he comes from, no matter how hard he tries. However, this is compounded by his own identity confusion and uprootedness. He reflects, questions and gets no answers. That is the real tragedy, "as though racism were a phenomenon best outwaited". And then there is Cukie Panton with another weak and at the same time overpowering father figure. A doppelganger and pointed variation on the Oedipus conflict - even Freud would have enjoyed this book.

I thought this was a strong collection of interconnected short stories/episodic novel about trying to survive in a world that is consistently threatening to unravel you. Although a bit uneven, as books constructed in this way often are, Escoffery is expert in his construction of flawed male characters, who are frustratingly in their own ways as much as the injustices of the modern world are too. He brings Miami, as a claustrophobic, sinking, stinking, but compelling and magnetic environment as alive as he does his characters. Uneven, but ultimately effective.

This is a very good debut, a novel of interconnected stories about identity, race, ethnicity, human fallibility, and spectacular family dysfunction. The author skillfully traces, through various character perspectives, that point at which other's need to categorize us collides with our need to know who we are. Seeing the process of labeling from this vantage point creates a clearer picture of how many others participate in accelerating a person's natural affinity for self-destruction. We don't need to reverse engineer it to find out what went wrong. It's always taken a village to knock someone down for good.

Many thanks to NetGalley, Farrar, Straus & Giroux MCD and Macmillan Audio for gifting me both a digital and audio ARC of this debut collection of short stories by Jonathan Escoffery and fabulously narrated by Torian Brackett - 4.5 stars! This collection of connected short stories follows the life of Trelawny, son of Topper and Sanya, who flee the violence in their homeland of Kingston, Jamaica, to settle in Miami, Florida, along with Trelawny's older brother, Delano. While they thought this would be the answer to their prayers, the family's struggles are now just very different. The first story in this book was probably my favorite, as we see that Trelawny is now judged by everyone he meets as being wrong - he's too white, too black, too different. While he considers himself an American, he is viewed very differently and doesn't fit in with any of the "groups" in his school or neighborhood. We see the dysfunctional family relationships between all of them. I felt bad for the pull of Trelawny of wanting to escape yet wanting to be accepted. I really enjoyed listening to the audiobook and feeling immersed in the language and culture of Trelawny's life. There is so much to think about in this book.

This was BRILLIANT!!!! Escoffery writes with control, awareness, humour, and understanding. 'If only you chose home.' ‐ Sanya Escoffery's stories are smart, realized, and stunning. They are at their core stories for so many Jamaican families, mired in colourism and classism(racism), fidelity, freedom of self, and self-actualization. Steeped in obvious experiences, each story traces the movement of this not-Black but maybe-Black family in a country where everyone is labelled. Trelawny acts as the locus for this novel, born to Jamaican parents who yearn for the island they were able to flee when violence erupts, he struggles to cement himself within a cultural structure that seems determined to pigeonhole him. Escoffery explores the many ways in which power dynamics exist and shift between members and within the family structure, how acceptance and identity can affect self-worth and self-actualization and determine the very ways we move through relationships. 'But answers in the mouths of the untrustworthy are worthless.' ‐ Trelawny

A 10-year-old boy growing up in the shadow of his well endowed physically stronger and more attractive older brother. His parents, immigrants from Jamaica who have moved to Miami to better their lives split; the younger son staying with mother and the older with father in the family’s home. The book follows this younger sons’ life experience through adolescence and college to young adulthood as a menial worker and teacher. Never establishing himself, in part, due to the emotional scars he incurred from his father’s rejection and favoritism of the older son. One story depicting his cousin's fractured relationship with his own father is a show-stopper. A unique voice, Escoffery gives us fast moving episodes that further details the “you” the narrator writes about. Funny, hip, satirical, edgy, and stoic the voice results in a fast moving read. It neatly captures the first-generation immigrant experience as he struggles to find his own identity and place both in his family and society at large. Nominated for National Book Award for Fiction.

Booker Book 11 of 13: 8/10. Really strong original debut collection of interlocking short stories chronicling the lives of a family of Jamaican immigrants in late 20th/early 21st century Miami. The first story, In Flux, is the best and has a crisp original bitingly funny voice that lets you know that Escoffery has the potential to be a truly great writer. The rest of the collection is more uneven (in particular two separate stories about Trelawney being paid by young women for weird sex things seemed like one more story about that than we probably needed) but has high points, such as Splashdown, a surprising bit of menace in the Florida Keys, or Independent Living, which recaptures the biting humor of the first story. I could easily have read more of these and I can’t wait to see what Escoffery does next.

Listen listen!!! I ENJOYED this book!!!! Was it perfect? Nah. And if pressed, I can specifically tell you why I don't think it was. One story/POV I could do without. I CRAVED a different POV to be added. Having said that, this was a truly UNIQUE way of telling a story. It is the story of a family who, against all odds, immigrated to Miami, FL from Jamaica. It's a story about who you are and if you're becoming who you want to be and what to do when you realize you haven't. I read this story in a challenge that Ashley Jackson and I embarked on for 2023, Reading Across America. This took care of Florida for us. Follow her to see if she agrees with my review.

2023 Booker Longlist Well this was far better than I was expecting it to be. I'd heard it was less of a novel and more like interlinking stories, which it is in a way. It is a little unbalanced, there is one main character whose narration dominates the book, it starts off when he is a child growing up in Miami and feeling extremely 'othered', not just by people outside his home but also his Jamaican father as the boy becomes more and more Americanised. The writing was heart breaking on this point. We do hear from his father which provides really great balance. Then it goes off to his cousin, which is a great storyline but after his narration there is no reference to it again. That storyline surviving the editing process becomes ironic. Altogether it was a captivating if brutal novel which really held my interest. Glad to have read it, I certainly would have by passed it if not on the Booker longlist, it would have been my loss. At the moment if I rate the longlist in order of enjoyment this novel would rate near the top.

If I Survive You This debut novel by Jonathan Escoffery is a collection of short stories that tell of the lives of an immigrant Jamaican family as they strive for survival in Miami, Florida. We meet Trelawny, the only American born family member and youngest son. His older brother is Delano and their parents are Topper and Sanya, who speak in the dialect known as Patois. I connected with the stories involving Trelawny the most. As a young child he was asked questions by his school mates, such as “What are you?” “Why does your mother talk so funny?” He asks his mother if he’s black and gets an unsatisfactory answer. He ponders where he fits in such an ethnically diverse city. He later attends a Midwest college were he most definitely is black, but in the eyes of the black folks, he looks and talks white. When he returns home, he lives out of his Raider and takes on a series of dodgy jobs to make ends meet. He also has a complicated relationship with his brother and father, partly because he feels his father loves Delano more than him. In an earlier story, his father addresses Trawlany using mostly Partois so I did struggle a bit with the meaning. I looked up some words; pickney means child, yardies is slang for Jamaican diaspora, and overproof is a strong rum. I appreciated the authenticity here. Escoffery has a unique style of storytelling. I wonder why he chose to use short stories and multiple narrators rather than a more linear approach. Regardless, it’s a beautiful story of relationships and belonging in America that takes on a humorous tone. Thanks to NetGalley and Farrar, Straus and Giroux for this ARC in exchange for my review.

In the opening story “In Flux” a teenage boy’s older brother attempts to clue him in on matters of identity in an incisive quote that also offers an explanation of their family’s trajectory as downwardly mobile immigrants: “You’re Black, Trelawny. In Jamaica we weren’t, but here we are.” The linkage between race and class can rarely be so evident on the personal level as when one’s mixed-ethnic background is associated with ownership of significant capital means in an overwhelmingly Black country, and that same background is associated with lower class status upon emigration to America. An association that more and more manifests itself as reality in Escoffery’s debut collection of stories about a Jamaican-American family, at least under the conditions of economic recession and familial dysfunction. The development of that linkage for me makes this an interesting work. It was a relief to see after that opening story, in fact, which largely seemed a fairly standard coming of age story focusing on questions of personal identity in a confused young person and a related litany of aggressions and micro aggressions. Nothing against that type of story but it didn’t seem very noteworthy. The development of this other theme through subsequent stories provided more interest, and the development of the characters from shifting POVs was another aspect that really benefited the work. I also have to mention a running theme of fetishization of racialized violence that in at least one instance I thought really didn’t work and in another worked very well for me. In the story “Odd Jobs”, Trelawny, desperate for money, answers an ad from a young woman who wants a man to hit her. She tells him that her sister once brought a black guy home and was beaten for it by their father. But they have plenty of time for this transaction before her family returns; oh, and she’s not white, she’s Latina, actually. He hits her, her family returns, and they beat him up. The family that beats black men together stays together, unlike his own family, Trelawny thinks as the story concludes. This story just sat wrong with me. If it’s because it’s too over the top, well, that wasn’t an issue in this next instance. The final story, which is the title story, uses fetishized racial violence even more transgressively but in contrast it was compelling in my reading. Trelawny, again desperate for money, returns to reading sus personal ads and agrees to watch a wealthy young white couple have sex. They want him to wear a hoodie. They wave marijuana smoke over him. They manipulate a racial profiling encounter at their exclusive condo building. They want him to choke out the husband. It maybe shouldn’t work and usually I’m not really one for the transgressive stuff but this story I found propulsive and intriguing and a sharp satire.

“It occurs to you that people like you — people who burn themselves up in pursuit of survival — rarely survive anyone or anything” ‘If I Survive You’ is Jonathan’s Escoffery debut and this linked collection of short stories were entertaining, thoughtful, chaotic and emotional. The story is centered around Trelawny as he navigates understanding his identity, his relationship to his father, and place in the world. His parents Topper and Sanya fled Jamaica to Miami to escape political violence but we follow as they learn how America is its own version of a rat race that leaves you to wonder who are the ones that are able to survive? “You feel sad about her sadness, and sad for the both of you because your wounds are not particularly original, however genuine” I loved this story not only because of Jonathan’s unique voice and humor but for the refreshing perspective of an immigrant story. We would all like to believe that immigrating to the states will automatically put your family and the following generations on a trajectory of upward mobility but what if the opposite happens? Leaving a country where you have the privilege of relative racelessness to enter a country where you are consistently forced to put yourself in boxes that determine how people see you regardless if it contradicts how you see yourself has its own consequences. The novel tackles topics such as masculinity, colorism, classism, generational trauma, desire for belonging, navigating different cultures, failed expectations and rejection. I loved how we were able to follow the POVs of the men in the family. It was quite the journey following all the odd and unfortunate situations the men find themselves in - specifically Trelawny. His father determined early on who his favorite son was, and it wasn’t him. It was tough to see him fight for his love and approval but I loved how everything came together at the end. I’ll be thinking of this family for quite some time. If you enjoy family dramas with chaos, humor and emotion, highly recommend adding to your reading list! Thank you sm @fsgbooks for the advanced copy! The cover is *chefs kiss* 💛✨

Thanks to NetGalley and Farrar, Straus and Giroux for an e-ARC in exchange for my opinion. “What ARE you?” That’s the question that’s bothering Trelawney. Most accurately, he thinks, he is an American. But he could be Jamaican…or Jamaican American. Trelawney knows that what his questioners are likely getting at is “are you Black?”. His family came to Miami from Jamaica to take advantage of the opportunities available for bettering themselves, but nothing seems to be working out and racism is a big reason among others. This book is a collection of related short stories following Trelawney, his brother Delano and his father Topper as they attempt to get a foothold in America. I liked how the family's struggles were handled, with humor and empathy. The writing is often lyrical and always true-to-life. As a debut novel, this book heralds the rise of a solid new voice in literature. I’ll look to Jonathan Escoffery for more in the future.

Such a strong start, a middle that didn’t have me hook and a glorious ending. I was very impressed at the way this book dealt with racism and the immigrant experience. This is interlinked short stories, 2 brothers, both struggling to make money, look after the next generation, find their roots and make good decisions, yet failing. It’s difficult and sad and very good.

Loved the collection of short stories that intertwined. Maybe I’m a bit burnt out on traumatic immigrant stories and the emotions that comes with that, it’s disheartening to read about. Although the way this author threaded the story together had me laughing, when I probably shouldn’t have lol Read this with Tami Reed on our USA reading challenge, this one was for Florida!

I feel like Rachel Cusk and everyone who has already read and reviewed her latest novel, Second Place, is smarter than me. By a lot. Like they’re all in Mensa, and I’m over here eating paste in the corner. In fact, I have to admit I’d never even heard of Cusk before - even though she’s clearly a literary genius. Can I tell you why I chose to pick this book up then? No. Can I tell you if I’m glad I did? Yes. Second Place is as literary as modern literary fiction can get. There could easily be an entire university course on the novel itself, demanding students of the written word unpack and interpret every potential meaning behind the title and story. And what is the story? A middle aged woman invites a painter to stay in her guesthouse with the hope he’ll use her as the subject of one of his masterpieces. When does it take place? No idea - could be 1921, could be 2021. Where does it take place? Also no idea - could be Europe, could be America. What I do know is that I was captivated by the audiobook from start to finish. Kate Fleetwood’s moody narration enhanced the heady atmosphere, transporting me to a time and place I’m too dumb to fully understand but smart enough to appreciate. My thanks to the author and Macmillan Audio for my gifted advance listeners copy via NetGalley. Second Place is now available. Blog: www.confettibookshelf.com

Now re-read following its deserved longlisting for the 2021 Booker Prize. This remains in my view the most literary and involved but also the most demanding book on the longlist - one I thoroughly enjoyed but would hesitate to recommend to many others. ….when we were building the second place, and had come to start calling it that in a way I knew would never change if we carried on doing it much longer, I said to him that ‘second place’ pretty much summed up how I felt about myself and my life – that it had been a near miss, requiring just as much effort as victory but with that victory always and forever somehow denied me, by a force that I could only describe as the force of pre-eminence. I could never win, and the reason I couldn’t seemed to lie within certain infallible laws of destiny that I was powerless – as the woman I was – to overcome. I ought to have accepted it at the beginning, and spared myself the effort! Tony listened to me, and I could tell he was slightly surprised by what I was saying, and that he was thinking about why he was, and after a long time he said: ‘For me it doesn’t mean that. It means parallel world. Alternative reality.’ Well, Jeffers, I laughed heartily to myself at this perfect example of the paradox that is Tony and me! Rachel Cusk’s latest novel is partly inspired by “Lorenzo in Taos” – the American art patron Mable Dodge Luhan’s account of a rather fraught (on both sides) visit to her New Mexican pueblo-based literary colony by DH Lawrence and his wife in 1922. Any true appreciation of this novel involves some engagement with that earlier book. Paul’s evolving review here is capturing - with my assistance - a very large number of links between the two books (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) which cover many (but by no means all -there are many other influences) of the otherwise apparent oddities or slightly out of place images and actions in this novel. This novel is narrated as a first person recollection by “M” to an unknown (to us) recipient – Jeffers. The book starts with M describing a rather series of events in Paris when she was in her first marriage – events which occur immediately prior to a train journey where she meets the Devil with unspecified but catastrophic consequences for her life. After an evening spent flirting unsuccessfully with a famous writer, she comes across a gallery exhibiting paintings by an artist L which, particularly the landscapes (as well as a portrait of an unknown woman), somehow speak to her at a profound level. This part seems to link strongly with an incident in Transit (https://www.vice.com/en/article/xdw3d...) featuring the painter Marsden Hartley. 15 years later M is living with her easy-going second husband Tony in a property on a coastal marsh where they have discovered and renovated a cottage (the eponymous second home) which they use as a place for visiting artists to work. The marsh has the same effect on M as L’s landscapes and she writes to the now extremely successful L (via a mutual acquaintance) inviting him to stay with them. Initially he demurs and stays with some of his wealthy patrons – but an unspecified catastrophe (which both leads to an asset price collapse – including L’s own property and his paintings – and travel restrictions) leads him to accept. Most of the book tells of L’s stay – which decidedly does not go to M’s plans. She seems convinced first of all that L will form a bond with her (and perhaps see her as a muse if not lover) and, more so, that the marsh landscape will inspire his work, and his painting somehow express what the marshland means to M. In practice this aim is frustrated both by: L’s aloof and unfeeling and rather exaggerated character - with an attitude to m which seems equal parts pity, contempt and dismissal); and by the presence of others – L comes with a young British companion in tow, the preposterously accomplished (for her age) Brett, and the circumstances lead to M’s adult daughter Justine and her boyfriend Kurt (a rather absurdly confident character who one day decides to knock up a fantasy novel unwittingly plagiarised from one he has read) to stay also. From then on the book examines the dynamics between the group – but always filtered through M’s obsession with her original intentions for L’s visit. The themes explored by Cusk through M are many and include but are far from limited to : Motherhood and marriage (and ideas in both of identity, sacrifice, obliteration, communication, evolution of roles and the loss that comes with it, freedom and obligation)l Privilege (in many forms – sex, age, wealth and status) Art (its relationship to reality, the workings of the art world, how we view art and how it can both reflect, magnify and alter our thoughts, the necessary character to be a successful artist and its implications for other aspects of the artists life and relationships Because this is partly a story of will, and of the consequences of exerting it, you will notice, Jeffers, that everything I determined to happen happened, but not as I wanted it! This is the difference, I suppose, between an artist and an ordinary person: the artist can create outside himself the perfect replica of his own intentions. The rest of us just create a mess, or something hopelessly wooden, no matter how brilliantly we imagined it. That’s not to say that we don’t all of us have some compartment in which we too are able to achieve ourselves instinctively, to leap without looking, but the bringing of things into permanent existence is an achievement of a different order. The closest most people come to it is in having a child. And nowhere are our mistakes and limitations more plainly written than there! As one would expect with Cusk – this is a deep and quotable book, one which teeters somewhere – like much of her writing - on just the right side of the boundary of genius and pretentiousness, but one which occasionally trespasses the boundary as well as making the occasional excursion to the territory of farce. One of my Goodreads friends has made the criticism of the author's work that some of her more profound and widely quoted sentences have equal weight if the nouns are reversed - so I was amused to see One afternoon I came upon him standing by the prow of the landlocked boat, just as he had been the day of our very first conversation, and this coincidence led me to exclaim, somewhat absurdly: ‘So much has changed, and yet nothing has!’ When of course, Jeffers, it would have been as true – and as meaningless – to say that nothing had changed and yet so much had. It also has (to quote an early Hilary Mantel view of Cusk’s work) her “bracing mix of scorn and compassion” – in fact M says something similar of L’s work part of L’s greatness lay in his ability to be right about the things that he saw, and what confounded me was how, at the plane of living, this rightness could be so discordant and cruel And this of course both of these elements (one I think accidental but one very deliberate) lead to another element of Cusk’s writing – its use of auto-fiction, its idea of telling a story ostensibly about others but at least partly (if not largely) about the story teller – something which is true of Cusk’s narrators (most famously in her annihilated perspective of the Outline/Transit/Kudos trilogy) but also of Cusk herself. Fans of Cusk’s autofictional approach will not be disappointed here - and there are lots of these references. One, I think, of the key themes of the book is how male artists get away with being self-absorbed, abrasive and arrogant in a way never possible for a woman (and of female complicity in this). One might say how does Ms Cusk get pilloried on MumsNet while Mr. Self appears on Shooting Stars The very marshland setting of the novel is of course a nod to Rachel Cusk and her second husband’s own recently sold stunning property in the North Norfolk saltmarsh village of Stiffkey and I was of course reminded of various snarky tweets by literary commentators (for example John Self) that I saw when that house was put on the market last year by this observation by L ‘Who pays for all this?’ he asked. ‘The house and the land belong to Tony. I have some money of my own.’ ‘I can’t imagine your little books make all that much.’ And the switch of landscape from teh Mexican pueblo in "Lorenzo in Taos" to Cusk's own marsh, an area I know very well with its tides and shifting currents and ever changing, ever flowing landscape is brilliantly justified by this quote from the first book "It is terribly difficult for me to explain these things to you. Jeffers, these tides and currents that compromise the relationships between people - the fluid come and do that constitute so different a reality from the solid, staring fixed appearance of faces" The character of L (and the idea of changing the real life Lawrence - one of Cusk's favourite authors due to the brutal honesty of his writing) to a painter still named "L" seems like a deliberate nod to Cusk's favourite painter Lovis Corinth and many of the ideas in the book are similar to those in this 2011 short story (https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...) and some are almost directly lifted from this lecture (https://vanderleeuwlezing.nl/sites/de...). Fans of Cusk will also know that all her books feature a dog – even though she herself has never owned one (and is allergic to them) and her rather deliciously there is a whole section around a non-dog used to summarise M’s troubled and complex relationship to her husband and daughter. Justine often asked me why Tony and I didn’t get a dog, since our life was ideally suited to having one and since she knew Tony had always had dogs before he met me. …. The truth was, Jeffers, I feared that if Tony got a dog, it would become the centre of his attention, and he would give it friendship and affection that should have come to me. I was in a sense in competition with this theoretical pet, many of whose characteristics – loyalty, devotion, obedience – I believed I already demonstrated ……….. I would say that this non-dog had come to stand for the concept of security, …. I mention this because it illustrates how in matters of being and becoming, an object can remain itself even at the mercy of conflicting perspectives. The non-dog represented the necessity for trusting and finding security in human beings: I preferred it that way, but Tony and Justine only had to get a sniff of that proposition to take fright. Yet the non-dog was a fact, at least for Tony and for me, and we were able to agree on it, even while it meant different things to each of us. The fact represented the boundary or separation between us, and between any two people, that it is forbidden to cross. …. all I could do was suspect, from my side of the boundary, that the two chief recipients of my love – Tony and Justine – both privately yearned for something mute and uncritical to love them instead. My thanks to Faber for an ARC via NetGalley.

I've come to the end to this novel with a new sense of how language on a page can sometimes be so vivid and captivating that it feels like a lived experience. Cusk writes in a voice here that's formally beautiful and mysteriously antiquated, and tonally perfect for the story. Each sentence feels revelatory--there is so much evidence that each sentence has been carefully, precisely written. And yet the language never feels bogged down with its own importance--it soars. A lot of things happen in this novel but the events seem to exist in a space between real and dream; between concrete and metaphor. So allowing yourself to be flung into that dream is part of what makes the novel work. I think you'll know from the first page whether you're the kind of reader who is willing to let this narrator take you on a journey, one where you may not always feel on solid ground, or always confident of where you're being led to. I love that kind of reading journey. I'm so grateful that Cusk had the confidence to write this kind of novel. I've already declared confidently in my review of Maria Stepanova's IN MEMORY OF MEMORY that it was going to be my favorite book in 2021, but now I'm thinking that Second Place--a very different, and yet equally perfect book--might be that book for me.

Now a Finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award 2021 (Fiction) Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2021 The unreliable narrator of this novel harbors a dark secret - but what is it? It's the puzzling nature of the human soul and how it is pondered in this text that renders the book so intriguing. As the story progresses, one wonders more and more what happened to "M", a 50-year-old writer, who lives remotely in the marshes with her down-to-earth, nature-loving husband Tony. She invites a famous painter who is down on his luck to join them in their second humble dwelling (that's the literal meaning of the title, but as this is Cusk, the term "second place" has many more layers), and soon enough, there are four visitors on the grounds, two directly bringing back haunting memories from the past, two mirroring M's fears and insecurities... Fear is a big topic in this book. Rachel Cusk takes no prisoners when she evokes hallucinatory images and gothic twists that point at a trauma deeply buried in M's consciousness; M wrestles with an overwhelming sense of being treated unjustly, a sense of infuriating helplessness and invisibility as a female literary creator. While her husband Tony "didn't believe in art - he believed in people, (...), in nature", the visiting painter represents reckless creation without any consideration for others (at least at first). In an afterword, Cusk states that the story owes a debt to Lorenzo in Taos, a memoir by Mabel Dodge Luhan about the time D. H. Lawrence visited her in New Mexico, and Cusk sees "Second Place" as a tribute to Luhan's spirit. "Second Place", much like the Outline-trilogy, is a treasure chest for readers who love labyrinths and puzzles: There is A LOT to find here, ideas, motifs, riddles, images...it's the whole extravaganza, and it's great fun to dive into it. M is the central figure and remains both closest to the reader and furthest away. She tells the whole story to the enigmatic Jeffers - and us, of course, and herein lies her key to freedom: "Language is the only thing capable of stopping the flow of time, because it exists in time, is made of time, yet it is eternal - or can be." By telling her tale, she makes us see her.

june 2024: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ one of my favorite things about making my way through rachel cusk’s catalog over the past few years has been synthesizing all of her work into a collection of reoccurring ideas and themes, and seeing how each book connects with the others. revisiting rachel cusk’s second place after reading 4 of her other books and doing some research into cusk’s life and the critical reception of her work gave me a new, more positive perspective on a book i felt ambivalent about initially. second place is about a woman who invites an artist she admires to come and stay on her property, in hopes that he will create art while there. of course, things don’t go to plan and we see how our narrator struggles to keep control of the situation. having read her new release parade twice in the span of two weeks earlier this summer, i’ve been especially immersed in the world of cusk recently. she’s exploring a lot of parade-like themes in second place that i didn’t pick up on during my first read. knowing what motifs to look out for and being able to connect them to her other work made this reading experience so much more enjoyable and i was able to better understand what she was doing with the story. second place is exploring the way gender intersects with issues of violence and control, freedom, and invisibility. there are also some really interesting passages having to do with mother daughter relationships that i didn’t appreciate enough the first time around. i talk more about these themes and read some quotes to go along with them in my reading vlog. i had remembered the writing style as being quite sparse, and don’t get me wrong, it can be stripped back. but this time around i was surprised to find the writing more descriptive than i thought it would be, and the characters more vivid than those of parade or the outline trilogy. i think cusk has an underrated knack for describing landscapes and settings - the descriptions of the marsh that the story takes place on were lovely. also, the story being addressed to the narrator’s friend jeffers allowed for more humor and personality to shine through, which was a fun switch up from her other novels. i like this book so much more now and appreciate its place within the rachel cusk universe. this was a really great way to kick off a series of rereads that i plan on doing and just goes to show how our opinions and experiences can evolve with the passage of time. may 2023: ⭐️⭐️⭐️ a thought provoking rendering of an uncomfortable situation dealing with relationships, gender roles, and creating art

Back on my bs of reading the internal monologue of a woman and enjoying it. My first Cusk, but certainly not my last. 3.5+/5

I love novels by Rachel Cusk. They make you think, turning a spotlight on yourself as well as what is on the page. They beautifully capture the essence of some aspect of life that you might recognise. Not an enormous amount happens in this novel, but then that is the kind on introspective novel we have come to expect from Cusk. As with the three volumes of the outstanding Outline trilogy, (Outline, Transit and Kudos) we have an unnamed (or hardly named) female narrator, giving us a first-person narrative. It becomes the voice we cannot help but attribute to Cusk herself. I bought the Farrar, Straus and Giroux edition, rather than my normal preference for Faber and Faber, because I love the piece of art on the cover – an impression of a woman wading in water not some abstract rectangles. The art is an even better choice once you have read the book. I love the setting of Second Place. A flat coastal area of marshes and creakes where the constant movement of tides set the rhythms of life. Because I spent a lot of my childhood in North Norfolk those are the pictures of the landscapes I had in my head, while the South East or South West of England would also work. The detail is so light that a location is both interchangeable and irrelevant. A week or two after reading the novel, I came across an article about Cusk’s house, now on the market, in a place called Stiffkey in North Norfolk. It is not as I imagined the woman’s house in the novel, but it fits well into the book. The architecture is not to my taste, but it does have wonderful spaces, ones where I could imagine being happy writing. I wonder why she is selling it, but I don’t really want to discover more. I already feel that I am invading her privacy. The novel begins in Paris. It is being told, narrated, to Jeffers. Whoever this is, we never discover in the novel, which is a shame because that sort of relegates him to the status of simply a device. The narrator has just spent the evening in the company of a famous writer “who was actually nothing more significant than a very lucky man.” I love that. She goes on: I met him at an art gallery opening, from which he took sufficient pains to extricate me that my vanity was gratified. Is didn’t get sexual attention very often in those years, though I was young, and I suppose good looking enough. The trouble was I had the dumb loyalty of a dog. The writer was of course an insufferable egotist, as well as a liar, and not even a very believable one; and I, alone in Paris for the night, with my disapproving husband and child waiting back at home, was so thirsty for love I would drink, it seemed, from any source. The description of the scene rolls deliciously on, until at last, at 2am it ends thus: We said goodbye at two in the morning at the entrance to the hotel, where he visibly…decided I wasn’t worth whatever risk to his status quo our spending the night together would have represented. And I went to bed and hugged the memory of his attention until the roof seemed to lift off the hotel and the walls fall away and the huge starry darkness to embrace me with the implications of what I felt. There is something about that whole sequence, about the fleeting chance of something, when you are so close to taking a risk or changing your whole life, that Cusk has captured in a few lines with such utter confidence of expression. I am lost for words. We are on page 8 and already I have lost it. In her wanderings around Paris the narrator is drawn to an exhibition of paintings by L. One particular self-portrait draws her in: One of L’s arresting portraits where he shows himself at about the distance you keep between yourself and a stranger. He looks almost surprised to see himself: he gives that stranger a glance that is as objective and compassionless as any glance in the street. That little detail about the distance you keep between yourself and a stranger is an excellent foreshadowing. She goes on to talk about L’s landscapes – and it is here when she talks about the love of Tony’s marshes, that I think, yes, that is the same love that I fell for those childhood memories of mine for those very same marshes, with their creakes and wide flat panoramas full of the song of skylarks. But the point is for you to understand how it was that the idea of L and his landscapes recurred all those years later and in another place, when I was living on the marsh with Tony and thinking quite differently. I realise now that I fell in love with Tony’s marsh because it had precisely that same quality, the quality of something remembered that shares and is inextricable from the moment of being. I could never capture it, and I don’t know why I needed it to be captured at all, but that is as good an example of human determinism as we’re likely to lay our hands on for now! In her letter to L, inviting him to her marshland paradise, the narrator describes what she wants of him I would like you to come here, to see what it looks like through your eyes. Our landscape is one of those conundrums people are drawn to, and end up missing the point of entirely. It is full of desolation and solace and mystery, and it hasn’t yet told its secret to anyone. She signs the letters M – the first point at which we have anything to call her other than the narrator. L says he will come, and then at the last minute, after Tony and M have repainted, waxed floors and prepared the place, changes his mind. This causes a tension between Tony and M, and an argument in which she says: …I flew at him in a rage and said all kinds of terrible things, about how lonely and washed up I felt, about how he never gave me any real attention of the kind that makes a woman feel like a woman and just expected me to sort of give birth to myself all the time, like Venus out of a seashell. Around this point of the novel there are some fascinating paragraphs about relationships: When people marry young, Jeffers, everything grows out of the shared root of their youth and it becomes impossible to tell which part is you and which the other person. So if you attempt to sever yourselves from one another it becomes a severance all the way from the roots to the furthest ends of the branches, a gory mess of a process that seems to leave you half of what you were before. But when you make a marriage later it is more like the meeting of two distinctly formed things…It is less of an organic process and more of a spatial event, an external manifestation. Once L arrives in the marsh house and takes up residence in the studio/second house, there is a tension as well as a change to what had been a relatively calm and orderly existence. Observations keep coming, M sees things about herself and her relationships, and from time to time I marked these as ones that I especially enjoyed within the narrative: Looking back on it now, I see that what I was experiencing might simply have been the shock of being confronted by my own compartmentalised nature. All these compartments in which I had kept things, from which I would decide what to show to other people who kept themselves in compartments too! Until then, Tony had seemed to me like the least divided person I had known: he had at any rate whittled it down to two compartments, what he said and did, and what he didn’t say and do. But L felt like the first entirely integrated being I had encountered, and the impulse I had was to catch him, as though he were a wild creature that needed to be ensnared, while at the same time realising that his very nature was not to be caught… It is a long time before there is any real dialogue between M and L. Eventually M tells him about the experience she had when she first viewed his paintings many years before: Sitting there I began to tell him about all those years before when I had walked through a Paris morning in the sun and come upon rooms full of his paintings, and about how it had made me feel, to experience the sort of kinship those images had aroused in me, as though I had suddenly discovered my true origins. They had made me feel that I was not alone in what, until then, I had held as secret to myself. The admission of that secret there in his work, I said, had led to a change in my life’s orientation, because suddenly the secret felt stronger than the things that had kept it hidden. Having rumbled and rambled for many pages, suddenly the close of the book rushes to a climax. L suffers a heart attack and after a recovery of sorts, escapes the marsh and makes his way to Paris where he had another stroke and dies. Gradually the truth begins to emerge about what he thought of M and Tony, while at the same time he was producing some of his finest art. These revelations also bring a self-awareness to those who remain: I have never been able to find out the precise details of L’s journey and of how he managed to get so far out into the world from out tiny station in his weakened state, but it is well known that he died in a Paris hotel room not long after he arrived, of another stroke. Soon after that news came, Arthur pulled up in our driveway again and together we went through everything, and packed up all the paintings and the sketches, and all L’s notebooks and other materials, and one day a big van arrived to take it away to L’s gallery in New York. It wasn’t long before the rumble that started over there became audible here, and I began to get all kind of enquiries and demands for information, and to see my name appearing in the articles that soon started to come out about L’s last paintings. It turned out that he had corresponded with a number of people during his time in the second place, and he had wasted no opportunity to tell them the most terrible and vituperative things about me and about the controlling, destructive kind of woman I was, and about Tony, whom he mentioned rather obsessively, always – and only just – stopping short of making fun of him and putting him down. Tony was calm enough about it, given how much he had done for L and how little he had profited in the history of our dealings with him. “Did you trust him?” I asked, since I believed he never had. “Only a wild animal doesn’t trust anybody,” Tony said. He didn’t care about the articles, since no one he knew ever read the kinds of papers these things were printed in, but he had observed how much L’s opinions affected me and he worried my life with him at the marsh might now be spoiled. “Do you want to go somewhere else?” he asked me. Which in terms of a sacrifice was like him offering to sever his own right arm. “Tony,” I said to him, “you are my life – you’re my whole security in living. Where you are, the food I eat tastes better, I sleep better, and the things I feel are real, instead of like pale shadows!” As for me, I have been disliked all my life, since I was the tiniest child, and have learned to live with it, because the few people I myself have liked have always liked me back – all except for L. His calumny, therefore, had a rare power over me. Hearing the dreadful things he said about me, it seemed to me there was nothing stable, no actual truth in all the universe, save the immutable one, that nothing exists except what one creates for oneself. To realise this is to bid a last and lonely farewell to dreams. Wonderful. A quick observation – I have quoted many passages and the word seemed or seems has turned up five times in just this small sample. It is a word that I find myself using in my own prose too often – I go back and take all these words out in order to make my text more present, real and in the moment. So much of what happened in Second Place seemed, but was it really?

I’m telling you all this, Jeffers, because it has to do with the building of the second place and with what we decided to use it for, which was as a home for the things that weren’t already here — the higher things, or so I thought them, that I had come to know and care about one way or another in my life. I don’t mean that we envisaged starting some kind of community or utopia. It was simply that Tony understood I had interests of my own, and that just because he was satisfied with our life on the marsh it didn’t automatically follow that I would be too. I needed some degree of communication, however small, with the notions of art and with the people who abide by those notions. And those people did come, and they did communicate, though they always seemed to end up liking Tony more than they liked me! Second Place is much more accessible than what I’ve come to expect from Rachel Cusk, but I leave this novel, once again, feeling like I don’t perfectly understand what she’s trying to tell me. I will say that this is incredibly interesting: an interesting format (epistolary) that makes for interesting observations (on art, motherhood, the burdens of femininity, male freedom) while tracing out an interesting plot (which is, apparently, based loosely on real events in the lives of some famous artists). I was intensely interested throughout this entire short read and ended the experience feeling enriched; I cannot ask for more. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) A brief plot overview: In letters to her friend Jeffers, “M” recounts having been in Paris as a young wife and mother, and after seeing an exhibition of the famous painter “L”, she felt such a connection to his landscapes that she knew she could no longer stay in her marriage. Many years later, after marrying her new husband, Tony, and relocating to his home in the marshlands, they renovated a second cottage on their property to use as a sort of artists’ retreat — to keep M connected to the world she, a semi-successful author, had left behind — and eventually, L accepts an invitation to stay in this “second place”. The majority of the plot recounts this visit and what it taught M about herself. There is no particular reason, on the surface, why L’s work should summon a woman like me, or perhaps any woman — but least of all, surely, a young mother on the brink of rebellion whose impossible yearnings, moreover, are crystallised in reverse by the aura of absolute freedom his paintings emanate, a freedom elementally and unrepentingly male down to the last brushstroke. It’s a question that begs an answer, and yet there is no clear and satisfying answer, except to say that this aura of male freedom belongs likewise to most representations of the world and of our human experience within it, and that as women we grow accustomed to translating it into something we ourselves can recognise. We get our dictionaries and we puzzle it out, and avoid some of the parts we can’t make sense of or understand, and some others we know we’re not entitled to, and voilà!, we participate. It’s a case of borrowed finery, and sometimes of downright impersonation; and having never felt all that womanly in the first place, I believe the habit of impersonation has gone deeper in me than most, to the extent that some aspects of me do seem in fact to be male. The fact is that I received the clear message from the very beginning that everything would have been better — would have been right, would have been how it ought to be — had I been a boy. Nearly every page of Second Place has something quotable on it, so I can’t help but excerpt with abandon. What Cusk (or, at any rate, “M”) has to say about motherhood: I could never reconcile myself to the fact that just as you’ve recovered from your own childhood, and finally crawled out of the pit of it and felt the sun on your face for the first time, you have to give up that place in the sun to a baby you’re determined won’t suffer the way you did, and crawl back down into another pit of self-sacrifice to make sure she doesn’t! On femininity: I’m not the kind of woman who intuitively understands or sympathises with other women, probably because I don’t understand or sympathise all that much with myself. Brett had seemed to me to have everything, and yet in that moment I saw in a flash that she had nothing at all, and that her intrusive and uninhibited manner was simply her means of survival. She was like one of those climbing plants that has to grow over things and be held up by them, rather than possessing an integral support of her own. On marrying later in life: When you make a marriage later it is more like the meeting of two distinctly formed things, a kind of bumping into one another, the way whole land masses bumped into one another and fused over geological time, leaving great dramatic seams of mountain ranges as the evidence of their fusing. It is less of an organic process and more of a spatial event, an external manifestation: people could live in and around Tony and me in a way they could never have entered and inhabited the dark core — whether living or dead — of an original marriage. Our relationship had plenty of openness, but it posed certain difficulties too, natural challenges that had to be surmounted: bridges had to be built and tunnels bored, to get across to one another out of what was pre-formed. The second place was one such bridge, and Tony’s silence ran undisrupted beneath it like a river. On art: I think I understood then that his illness had released him from his own identity and history and memory so violently and thoroughly that he had been able at last to really see. And what he had seen was not death, but unreality. This, I believe, was the discovery he had made, and it was what the night paintings told of — and the question I wish I had asked him that afternoon on the marsh was about what came after that discovery, but perhaps L didn’t know the answer to that question any more than the rest of us do. And I want to make a note on the real life events that inspired this book (so feel free to skip this part if you’d rather not know): This is apparently based on Lorenzo in Taos, a “loosely” epistolary recounting of the time that D. H. Lawrence and his wife stayed at the artists’ colony in Taos owned and run by famed socialite and patroness of the arts Mabel Dodge Luhan and her husband Tony. In Lorenzo in Taos, the letters are written between Mabel (“M”), the poet Robinson Jeffers, and Lawrence himself (“L”), and while I have no idea how closely the plot of Second Place adheres to the real life events in New Mexico, I’m left wondering if this nonfictional component makes the whole more or less interesting overall. I did find it an odd detail that in Cusk’s novel, M’s husband Tony was adopted as an infant, with no knowledge of his birth family, but as he had a dark complexion and features that look like photographs of Native Americans, M states that “more than anything he looks like one of them”. To then discover that Mabel Dodge Luhan’s husband was Native American made that whole passage feel...weird. Why the uncertainty in Cusk’s version? If their marshland home is presumably in Britain, why not definitively explain why a Native American was brought up there or just not mention his ethnicity? In the same vein, I have no idea what other true details were lifted or adapted or elided (did Mabel find Lawrence’s novels similarly transformative?) and I find myself somewhat less impressed for knowing the inspiration. And yet...I was mesmerised by the writing here, consistently interested in the storyline, and found myself nodding along and underlining more passages than shared here; Cusk is a master at her craft.

It’s been said that this is a departure from the Outline novels. What struck me very quickly was that this was a continuation of her enterprise with Outline – and that actually it persists in a relentless pursuit that dates back to before then, to at least The Bradshaw Variations (I haven’t read anything earlier). In one way yes, Cusk has gone back to applying a bit of ‘story’ here, in the commercial sense, albeit very slightly, and back to focusing on a specific group of characters. But in most respects, morally and ideologically, it occupies the same terrain. And it’s also quite similar tonally. The stark, cool weather of Cusk’s style works so beautifully as a vehicle for her. She stimulates and provokes me. I feel like she’s really getting to it, you know? The metaphorical ‘it’ of what life is and does to a person, and how it is and isn’t lived truthfully. It’s also been said that this is more challenging than the trilogy. To me it may seem that way because the narrator in Second Place is constantly articulating and expounding. The narrator of Outline isn’t, at all, because she’s renounced her identity and doesn’t know what to do – she’s carrying these complex questions and ideas inside her. They’re there to be inferred. And actually that makes those books more challenging. She’s lost all her preconceived notions and she’s listening to and watching the fraudulence of others. She’s surrendered her will, whereas in Second Place the narrator is exerting hers. But they both have the same hang ups and desires. And in fact the rupture that is the cataclysmic shock to the systems of both women, that causes the void to open up before them and is the catalyst for the struggles that are at the heart of these works, is the same: the dissolution of their marriages, the break with the men they once loved and trusted. I loved this. Though the subject matter is heavy, the clear supple prose goes down easy. Erudite and merciless, Cusk is firing on all cylinders.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2021 Now available in German: Das Porzellanzimmer This novel has quite a few flaws, but I really enjoyed reading it, thus four instead of three stars. The title-giving China Room has nothing to do with the country in Asia, but refers to a small chamber shared by three young brides (and where some porcelain from their mother-in-law's dowry is stored). It's the year 1929 in rural Punjab, and 15-year-old Mehar wonders which of the three brothers of the house is her husband, as all three girls have been married the same day and are kept unaware of who is whose husband - sexual meetings always occur in a windowless room, in almost complete darkness. When Mehar presumes that she has found out which one is her spouse, tragedy ensues... In the second, much shorter storyline which is intertwined with the larger portion of the text, we meet Mehar's great-grandson who lives in England (colonizer of India), but comes back to Punjab and the China room before his first year of university in order to free himself of his heroin addiction - and who seems to be the one telling his own and Mehar's story in hindsight. He remains unnamed, but at the end of the text, we see a photo of an old woman holding a baby, which suggests that the great-grandson might be an alter ego of the author. As Sahota was born in 1981, it makes sense that he might have graduated school in 1999, the year the second narrative thread is set. In an interview with the author, he explains that the text is indeed based on an old family legend - but while the common narrative tends to patronize the poor people in the olden days, he wanted to highlight the tragedy, their plight. I liked how Sahota linked his motifs between the two storylines, and I also found the narrative suspenseful and interesting. Sure, many questions remain unresolved, and the novel could have been longer and could have given more details - in the end, I would have enjoyed to stay longer with the characters, because I wanted to know more about the years and people left out. The atmospheric writing is highly effective and touching. But then again, this proves that the novel is interesting and smart - a book about family, about loneliness, longing and belonging, about trying to take control of one's own life. Both Mehar and her great-grandson feel foreign and marginalized, although for different reasons, and they both try to break free from what restricts them. Is the China room a place of protection or a prison - that's a question that tends to come up in different variations. In all of his novels, Sunjeev Sahota ponders questions of class, and this is no exception: It shows how intergenerational trauma permeates centuries and countries, how the wish to escape marginalization is the common root of the pain depicted. I hope there will be a new novel by Sahota soon!

I re-read this book after its longlisting for the 2021 Booker Prize and had similar views to my first read. There was one photo that I’d focus on, a small picture in a dark-wood frame. It was of my great grandmother, an old white haired woman who’d travelled all the way to England just so they she might hold me ………… The photo hung there quietly as I sat at the table, opened up my laptop and started to write ………… I’d been clearing the ground the better to see what was in front of me, which was the past. All sorts of pasts in fact, including the one that found me rehabilitating on a farm in India, in 1999, the summer after I turned eighteen. This is the third novel by the author, who like me has a mathematics degree and like me started his career, post-graduation, working for a life insurance company (our paths rather diverged after that). The author’s second novel “The Runaways” was shortlisted for the 2015 Booker Prize and was also winner of that year’s Royal Society of Literature’s Encore Award for literary second novels. My own views on that book (one of what I have to say was, in my view, a poor Booker shortlist with a winner that was not to my taste at all) was that it was a triumph of theme and ideas (a topical and engaging treatment of the hidden lives of economic immigrants to the UK and the contrasts and interactions between their lives in India and England) over execution (a lack of plausible and distinguishable characters, the over-heavy use of untranslated objects, expressions and distinctions and a very weak epilogue). The author was discussing his ideas for a third novel in interviews around 2015 but in time the form of the novel changed – originally it had been intended as a magic realism novel roaming across time and with a rather broad sense of place, but it has ended as a much quieter novel, while still drawing on the same genesis - a family legend about his great-grandmother, who with three other women was married to four brothers – but “None of them knew which man she was married to ….because they had to remain veiled the whole time. There was no electricity. It was in the middle of nowhere on a rural farmstead and they didn’t know who was the husband, so the story goes.” Now that strand – but much more firmly rooted in time, place and harsh reality, forms one of the two point of view tales which are interleaved in the novel – and perhaps draws more on a Shakespearean tradition of mistaken identity than magic realism. Set in 1929 rural Punjab, we follow the third-party story of Mehar living in a small standalone building on a farm (known as the “China Room” due to its decoration) with two other women – Harbans and Gurleen. The three were married on the same day to the brothers: the oldest of which is Jeet and the youngest the rather rebellious Suraj. The family Matriach Mai gives the brothers permission to sleep with their wives on different nights – but the veiled women are not allowed to view their husbands. The narrative development in the book occurs when Mehar starts meeting Suraj (who she works out from observation must be her husband) outside of Mai’s supervision. The second first-party strand is set 70 years later – as Mehar’s great grandson, shortly before taking up an unconditional offer to study Maths. at Imperial, travels to visit his Aunt and Uncle in India, ostensibly for a family visit but really in an attempt to go cold turkey from heroin addiction. His initial technique seems to be largely to use whisky as a substitute, and in the face of his Aunt’s hostility and his Uncle’s embarrassment he is shipped off to a deserted family farm and ends up staying in the same China Room. There as he reflects on his upbringing – and the overt as well as persistent racism that his family faced after Thatcher-era redundancy lead them to give up their life in Derby (surrounded by family and kin) to set up a shop in an otherwise uniformly-white ex-mining town and which acted as a trigger for his addiction. He also starts a tentative involvement with a visiting Doctor and an initially awkward friendship with a local teacher (both around 20 years older than him) and the two start to draw him out of his addiction, while he also reflects on the locally well-known story of his great grandmother and discovers insights into his Aunt’s past. This section is introduced in 2019 as the narrator returns to the family shop to nurse his father post a knee operation (see opening quote) – a real life incident which crystallised the writing of the novel. Overall this is a novel I think for which the word “understated” will frequently appear in reviews. The 1929 section is quietly powerful but the modern day section for me did not work as well as it could have done. Some of the sections set in the narrator’s childhood were very powerful – for example a remembered ill-fated visit to a birthday party, glimpses of the struggles in the lives of his parents – but I felt these could have been longer. And I felt that the narrator’s initial struggles with addiction were rather disregarded over time and replaced with more of a relationship story. The real strength is the links though of ideas and themes between the two stories - a desire for belonging, identity, connection and of grasping for some form of self-determination in the face of societal prejudice and expectations. Mehar has her freedom constrained by a very prescribed role set out for her, the narrator and his parents by contrast when they move are constrained by the fact that they are seen as not having any welcome role at all to play in the life of the town. The book is also underpinned by a sense of loss and of having to settle for a substitute or reduced status. This extends beyond the narrator and Mehar, to his parents, to Mai, to both Jeet and Suraj (for different reasons), to his Aunt and Uncle (again mourning different things), and empathetically even to those who in the mining town (the “villain” in the birthday party scene is himself struggling with the loss of his miner-identity and the shame of his new job as a shelf stacker – deliberately taking night shifts so as not to be seen). 3.5 rounded up. My thanks to Random House UK, Vintage for an ARC via NetGalley

The novel is broken into two narrative arcs joined by blood. The major storyline is set in Punjab, 1929. The protagonist is 15-year-old Mehar. Mehar and two other women are all married to three brothers in one single ceremony. The intriguing part is that none of the women know which of the brothers is their husband. Mehar never sees her husband, working in the fields through the day, and at night he remains an elusive silhouette. When she does see him briefly through the day, her veil adds to his concealment. The second shorter storyline takes place in 1999 and revolves around an 18-year-old narrator who is a heroin addict. He leaves his home in England and travels to the very farm where the first storyline takes place, and we learn that Mehar is his great-grandmother. He has moved to this farm in Punjab to break his addiction, before moving back to England to attend university. Then there is the “china room” which gives the novel it’s title. It exists in both arcs as well. In the main storyline it is where the sisters-in-law live. In the other, seventy years later, it is an abandoned wreck used to provide rumours about Mehar and why there are bars on the window. Both storylines are interesting and compliment each other. The first, being Punjab and 1929, explores themes of religion and caste. The terrible treatment of the women, who are essentially slaves in almost every facet of their lives, including sex. The birth of a son paramount to the patriarchal mother “Mai”. The second deals with displacement, isolation and racism, with the narrator digging into memories from his past. Both also contain love stories, one forbidden, one taboo, the seed for rampant rumors. On the inside of the cover, it reads “Inspired in part by the author’s family history” This always adds an extra element to the narrative and has the reader pondering how much is fact and how much is fiction. It is also beautifully written, “He stands in the empty courtyard: above him the stars are bright and stitched into the day’s dark dress”. Wonderful sentences such as this weave their way throughout the entire novel. A very rewarding and enjoyable read.

More in-depth thoughts to follow on https://thereadersroom.org/ where I am serving as a member of a panel (to analyze the Booker Prize). However in a nutshell, I really loved reading this book. I'm not sure if it is original enough to win a big prize like the Booker, but I love books set in India (A Fine Balance, Shantaram, The White Tiger to name a few). This is a quieter, character-driven book, focused on emotions, specifically yearning . . .and books like that are my favorite. The writing reminded me a bit of Khaled Hosseini. From the readersroom.org: Is this book truly “Booker material”? Probably not, but I absolutely loved reading it. Two parallel tales of unrequited love, set in India (my personal favorite setting), just made me yearn for this book to be longer. The story that is set in the past is the more developed and interesting of the two. Three young women are married off to the three sons of a very shrewish, conniving mother-in-law, and none of them are quite sure which husband is theirs. This set up is a prescription for disaster . . .the kind where you can’t look away. So readable, but with wonderful cultural details. Where I think the book falls short is it lacks thematic punch. Great storytelling without the big ideas that a Booker prize winner usually delivers. Writing quality: 4/5 Originality: 3/5 Character development: 3/4 Plot development: 3/4 Overall enjoyment: 2/2 Total: 15/20

They live in the china room, which sits at a slight remove from the house and is named for the old willow-pattern plates that lean on a high stone shelf, a set of six that arrived with Mai years ago as part of her wedding dowry. Far beneath the shelf, at waist level, runs a concrete slab that the women use for preparing food, and under this is a little mud-oven. The end of the room widens enough for a pair of charpoys to be laid perpendicular to each other and across these two string beds all three women are made to sleep. China Room really shouldn’t have worked for me — it’s kind of a sentimental historical drama, dripping with desire and forbidden love — but it touched me. I cared about the characters, was fascinated by the customs, and appreciated the long view that author Sunjeev Sahota provides by splitting the storyline between two members of a Punjabi Sikh family, three generations and seventy years apart. This is unlike Sahota’s last Man Booker nominated novel (The Year of the Runaways, which I loved), and although it feels less deep, it worked for me. Rounding up to four stars. (Note: I read an ARC through NetGalley and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) One hundred. Two hundred. Three hundred, he counts, barely working his lips and standing unmoving in the yard, in the moon. The sun in the moon. He looks about him, from the quiet of the barn to the charpoys stowed upright under the veranda, their long round legs like rifles, all the way across to the china room, shuttered in silence. He’d skipped over the double-doors at the rear of the porch. Now, he walks towards them, applies his hand to the flaking paint and steals inside, to where Mehar has been instructed to wait for her husband. I have no idea how commonplace a practise the basic premise is: It is 1929 in the Punjab and a nasty matriarch has, over the lives of her three sons, arranged marriages for them with girls from distant villages, and in order to save money, she decides that all three ceremonies will happen on the same day. Three young women (from fourteen to nineteen) — always veiled in public with a material that only allows them to see their own feet and hands as they walk and work — move into the “china room” off the main house on their wedding day; and although they can peek through the slats of the blinds when the men are in the courtyard, none of brides have any clue which of the brothers is her own husband. Even when one of the brothers gets permission from his mother for a conjugal visit — for grandsons are wanted to work the family farm — the room that they couple in is so dark that none of the women can figure out which brother was hers; and it would apparently be bold and impious to ask. The most daring (and youngest) of the women, Mehar, decides to risk everything to make a deeper connection with her spouse. Men have their needs. But for her life would be over. She can see herself now: head shaved, breasts exposed, the iron pigring around her neck and the coarse rope parading her through the village. She can hear the crowds calling her a dirty whore and feel the rocks cutting her flesh as she lurches to the well and jumps to her drowning end. Yes, for those reasons she will go. But, lying on her bed, her back to Harbans’ back, she recognises another note, a lighter, brighter music behind the crashing deathcymbals. She listens to it, and hears it for what it is: desire, her own, amplifying. She closes her eyes and whispers, out loud but so only she can hear it –‘I want you, too’– and then she reopens them, and for a long time she stares at the muddy apples spilled across the stone ledge of the window. In a second storyline, it is 1999 and Mehar’s eighteen-year-old great-grandson returns to the Punjab from where he was raised in rural England, wanting to kick his heroin habit before starting university. When his sickly presence proves too upsetting for his uncle’s sour wife, the boy moves out to the old farm, eventually fixing up the homestead and unwittingly choosing the china room as his own sleeping quarters. Through the hard work and the company of some locals, the unnamed character regains his health and hears stories about the customs that still thwart people’s desires. Looking around at what seems to him like a fine place to live, and recalling instances of the racism and back-breaking work that his parents suffered through in order to give him a better life, he has to wonder if their sacrifices were really worth it. ‘You know what the best thing is about falling out of love? It sets you free. Because when you’re in love it is everything, it is imprisoning, it is all there is, and you’d do anything, anything, to keep that love. But when it withers you can suddenly see the rest of the world again, everything else floods back into the places that love had monopolised.’ Apparently roughly based on Sahota’s own family history (there is a photo at the end of a very old woman holding a baby; is that Mehar with her great-grandson, the author?), China Room has the feeling of truth to it; the plot didn’t go the way I expected, but such is life. This novel doesn’t employ sophisticated literary tricks, and I could even call it lightweight, but it weighed on me all the same. Call me pleasantly surprised.

I really enjoyed this. It has a wonderful sense of place, in particular, a farm in Punjab. We see it in 1929 when it is thriving and inhabited by three brothers, their mother, and their three wives whom they married on the same day. And we see it in 1999 when an unnamed young English man stays there in order to wean himself off heroin, and when the farm is run down and abandoned. In the 1929 sections Mehar, one of the new brides, tries to work out which of the brothers is her husband (she has never looked at him directly), and when she believes she has got it right, the story unfolds. In the 1999 the young man has come to stay with his uncle, but ends up living at the farm and falling in love for the first time. Mehar's sections are stronger than the more modern sections, and there were many times when I had my heart in my mouth. I also really liked how Sahota describes Mehar and her sisters' domestic duties - it was all so vivid. With themes of societal constraint/control, racism, sexism, as well as unrequited love, this is a book full of meaning, but also just a really enjoyable read.

“Mehar is not so obedient a fifteen-year-old that she won’t try to uncover which of the three brothers is her husband.” China Room starts like a fairy tale – Goldilocks and the Three Bears meets Beauty and the Beast. It is set in 1929 in India, where women are regarded as little more than breeding mares, and Mehar is chosen to be the wife of one of three brothers. Which brother it is doesn’t matter, although we find out rather quickly that her husband is the eldest of the brothers. Women are veiled and “the act” takes place in darkness with the briefest of verbal exchanges, so what could go wrong? Just this: Mehar falls in love with Suraj, the middle brother, believing he is her husband, and he, in turn, falls in love with her. This profane love cannot bode well.and carries grave risks. The story, inspired by Sunjeev Sahota’s family history is created with strong story-telling skills and a fair share of claustrophobic tension. The novel takes his title from the cramped china room – complete with willow-pattern plates—that the breeding mare (Mahar) must go to when requested by her officious mother-in-law to meet her “husband” and hopefully, “get with child.” Interspersed with this story is that of a young man who is sent to his uncle in rural Punjab to get through the ravages of heroin withdrawal. As it turns out, he is the great-grandson of Mehar. Living in Mehar’s former house and building a crush on an older female doctor who visits him there, he tries to separate facts from legends. Sunjeev Sahota is a powerful writer, but the Mehar story is far more intriguing than the narrative of her great-grandson. During his chapters, I found myself yearning to get back to the stronger of the interjoining tales. Ultimately, this was a transfixing if not totally satisfactory novel.

Back in 2015 Sunjeev Sahota’s second novel, The Year of the Runaways was shortlisted for the Booker. I enjoyed it so I was looking forward to reading his follow up, China Room, in a way it is different from it’s predecessor but it does share some themes. The book consists of two timelines. One takes place in 1929 and focuses on Mehar, a bride chosen to be the wife of one of three brothers. The thing is she doesn’t know which brother she will marry and one of them slips in the night to her room to sleep with her. She falls in love and once she recognises him in the daylight she wants to be with him. He, also is in love with her. It turns out that things are not as they seem. The other story is told in the form of a memoir where the narrator visits India in 1999 to rediscover his roots as he finds out he is related to Mehar and also to go cold turkey. The place he settles in is the farm Mehar lived in. Within this section we also see little flashbacks of the racism he had to encounter as a child in London. In both timelines each character leads parallel lives, especially with love and each character is entwined within a relationship, which may end badly. Both characters are victims of small town mentalities and they also face persecution of sorts. For the narrator it is race and for Mehar it is tradition and being a woman. Each character needs to break free. Ironically Mehar has to escape the farm, while the narrator breaks free by going to the farm. As one can guess that most of the action in both cases involves The China Room. China Room is a solid story. Intelligently plotted, well written and addictive reading. It’s a little bit predictable in places and unpredictable in others but it’s a enjoyable read and the multiple timelines give the novel some depth. Clearly with this year’s Booker there’s a clutch of experimental novels and more conventional ones. China Room falls in the latter category so it will be interesting to see which side the judges will choose when it comes to the shortlist stage.

25. China Room by Sunjeev Sahota published: 2021 format: 243-page hardcover acquired: November read: May 12-16 time reading: 6:05, 1.5 mpp rating: 4 genre/style: Contemporary Fiction theme: Booker 2021 locations: Punjab India 1929 and 1999 about the author: A British author born in Derby in 1981. His parents are from Punjab, India. (According to Wikipedia he read his first novel at age 18…so ~1999) As I work through last year's Booker longlist, longest to shortest book, this is book 12 of 13. Strictly on its own, this novel is good. A little MFA-ish, but it works. A drug-addict English kid visiting his Indian relatives is a nice touch. As a semi-autobiography/semi-family history it becomes a terrific look into Punjab, now on the Pakistani border, in the 1920‘s under British control; and a curious self-examination. The novel takes place partially in 1929 in Punjab India on a farm where the wives of three brothers do not know who their husband is, the conjugal duties done in the dark without speaking. Some Handmaid's Tale vibes early, but the themes bring in Muslim/Hindu/British tensions. In a second interwoven story, the narrator looks back at himself in 1999, the great grandchild of one of these pairs, born and raised in England, visiting his uncle after failing his first year at his university and dealing with a secret heroin addiction. There are autobiographical elements as the narrator is the same age as the author. Wikipedia notes Sahota claims to have discovered literature in 1999, age 18, on a flight to India. I think I have my paragraphs in the wrong order, but anyway, if it interests, go check it out.

Mehar, Harbans and Gurleen are three recently married young women living in rural Punjab in 1929. They are the brides of three brothers, but none of the three women know which brother it is that they have married. They spend most of their nights in the ‘china room’, where they share a pair of charpoys, string beds, and whisper together under the display of their mother-in-law’s wedding china that came as part of her dowry. However, every so often, one of the women is called to sleep with her husband in a ‘windowless chamber at the back of the farm.’ In the blackness, each struggles to identify her bridegroom, but at first, none of them are able to. With this compelling set-up, Sunjeev Sahota’s third novel, China Room, immediately has something of the folkloric about it. This is countered or perhaps enhanced by the modernity of Sahota’s language and his refusal to slip into distancing, archaic prose. This usually works very well, although there were a couple of phrases that made me pause: it does feel jarring for these isolated characters to say things like ‘Ants in your pants?’, although I get that Sahota is already ‘translating’ their words into English and so we’re already only getting a version of what they say. On the other hand, this decision definitely gives China Room the immediacy that a lot of historical novels lack. Alongside the story of Mehar and her sisters-in-law, we follow an unnamed eighteen-year-old male narrator in 1999, who is detoxing from heroin addiction on his family’s farm in the Punjab, having grown up in England. Our narrator becomes slightly interested in his family history – we discover that Mehar is his great-grandmother – but Sahota doesn’t draw the connections tightly between these two threads, preferring instead that the stories mirror each other thematically through their depiction of social exclusion and agency. This makes the modern narrator feel a little unnecessary at times, as Mehar’s section of the narrative has much greater tension and direction. However, I did like the perspective that his experiences brought, as he reflects upon the vicious racism he suffered as a teenager, confounding some of our assumptions about the relative privilege of a young man raised in modern Britain as opposed to a young woman in an arranged marriage in 1920s India. China Room didn’t have quite the same kind of impact on me as Sahota’s previous book, The Year of the Runaways, but it’s a beautifully quiet and moving novel. I received a free proof copy of this novel from the publisher for review.

I had read some somewhat disappointed reviews of China Room but I was pleased to find it well written, tight and thoroughly gripping. Mehar's story is particularly compelling, with its glimpse into the complicated hierarchies and gender dynamics of a traditional Punjabi Sikh family in 1929. But I came to care about the other branch of the story too, about her unnamed great-grandson and the relationships he forms (with another arranged marriage playing a key role) while recovering from a drug addiction (and brutal English racism) on Mehar's farm many years after her death. I thought Sahota's novel the Runaways was very good, but suffered from bloat. That problem is amply remedied here - I was left wanting more which is always a good thing. The prose is evocative of the rural and village atmosphere but moves sharply along. One of the unexpected treats of the Booker list for me. Sahota is definitely a force to be reckoned with.

I honestly picked up China Room without any expectation. There was zero expectation as I started the book, and savoured it over a period of a week or so. China Room was a revelation of many aspects. It unravels itself as you turn the pages, and with such elegant and deceptively simple prose that makes you go back and read some sentences all over again. China Room in brief is about three women who are married away to three men in the year 1929, in rural Punjab. Mehar is one of the brides who is trying to find out the identity of her husband, since she has never seen him. The wives are cut off from their husbands during the day and only called on at night if their mother-in-law Mai wills it. All of this of course because there is need of an heir. What comes of it is the rest of the story. In another time, in 1999 to be precise, another story unfolds. That of a young unnamed man who travels from England to a farm that has been abandoned for decades, with his own demons. The trauma of his adolescence – his experience with racism, addiction that continues, and more importantly the chasm between him and his culture. In the process of finding himself (or coming of age in some sense), he finds his roots linked to Mehar. Sahota does a brilliant job of intertwining the two threads. At the same time, at no point as a reader did, I feel I needed to know more. Sahota’s storytelling skills are totally on-point, and at most times I felt I was reading a literary page-turner (which I think it was). The issues that this book brings to light are so many. There is the awareness of India’s struggle for independence looming large, the idea of women’s liberation (that doesn’t exist at all, whether it is 1929 or 1999 in a country like India), and above all the concept of family and loss that makes for the entire arc of the story. China Room is also to some extent based on what the author heard from his parents and ancestors, of what happened in his family and that’s why you resonate so much with the writing. It is told with a lot of heart and soul. It explores lives that go by without being chronicled, the book aims to understand the human heart, and what often transpires inside of it. A must-read in my opinion.

I married 55 years ago in New Delhi into a Punjabi family. Although my husband's parents were both deceased at the time of our marriage, my husband's father had been born in 1904 and married in the 1920's like the author's grandparents. His father was named "Harbans" (which is a female character in the book). His mother, like the mother in the story, had been given a new name "Amrit" at the time of her marriage. The part of the story that seemed incredulous to me was that each sister in the story appears to be unaware of which brother was her respective spouse. We too were married in a joint ceremony. My husband and I circled the Adi Granth first (bride following groom, united by holding the ends of a scarf). Then, when our lavaans were completed, his sister and her husband (bride following groom) took their turn. Even in a joint marriage, it is incredulous to me that a bride would not know whom she was marrying. I liked the structure of the book, with numbered chapters for those occurring in past times and modern-day ***ed chapters. I did not relate as well to the modern day chapters which concerned an England-born modern ancestor returning to India to deal with his drug addiction but I did appreciate the author's attempt to tie the stories together and unite the past with the present.

"You know what the best thing is about falling out of love? It sets you free. Because when you're in love it is everything, it is imprisoning, it is all there is, and you'd do anything, anything, to keep that love. But when it withers you can suddenly see the rest of the world again, everything else floods back into the places that love had monopolised." China Room follows the interconnected story of 2 teenagers in 2 different timelines: In 1929, 15-year-old Mehar Kaur was arranged to marry the eldest of 3 brothers. The wedding ceremonies for all 3 brothers were held in 1 day and Mehar was cloistered in the "china room" together with her sisters-in-law. Mehar and her sisters-in-law met their husbands at night when they were called upon, but they did not know the identity of their husbands. Mehar's curiosity about her husband's identity placed her freedom in peril. Here, we see the employment of the "Shakespearean bed trick" (a plot device involving a substitution of one partner during sex with a third person) by Sahota. In 1999, the 19-year-old nameless narrator arrived at his uncle's house in Punjab from London. We then discovered that the narrator is Mehar's great-grandson. The narrator suffered from heroin addiction and intends to seek treatment in India. He ended up staying on the farm where Mehar previously stayed and was involved in a love entanglement with a female doctor, Radhika, who is older than him. Sahota is very skillful in portraying the claustrophobic atmosphere of the china room/the farm, as well as the oppressed state of Mehar and her sisters-in-law when living with their husbands and mother-in-law on the farm. The narrator's heroin addiction is also brilliantly described and this may be due to Sahota's personal experience in battling with addiction. A glimpse of the Great Depression of India in 1929 - 1930, which resulted in revolutionists claiming for India's full independence from the British, is fleshed out from Mehar's storyline. Sahota's examination of the themes of desire, freedom, love, classism, societal conventions, and expectations, racism faced by the narrator in London, the power dynamics between Mehar and her mother-in-law/husband/her lover, are all executed subtly with so much restraint on emotion. While the story started off strongly, it suffers from a minor lack of characterization and the pacing of the plot seems to be a little rushed at the end. The ending of the story left me feeling unsatisfied and craving for more. China Room is just a 3.8/5 rating to me and it has the potential to be a great book if it is a longer novel. Though longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize, I am curious to see whether this will advance to the shortlist.

Thoroughly enjoyed this book! I don’t typically like books that can be labeled as historical fiction, but I think China Room stayed in the realm of lit fic with a historical tilt, so it worked for me. Great writing, interesting story, and well paced. Would definitely recommend.

THE BOOKER PRIZE LONGLIST 2021 CHINA ROOM – Sanjeev Sahota Genre – Historical Fiction, India “That a wife was a wife, there to bear sons and otherwise live behind her veil, out of the way. Her face was barely worth considering”. This was the mindset of rural India & still is in some parts. The “chador”/veil makes it hard for a woman to identify the husband among his siblings, sometimes going a whole lifetime without knowing who it is, having to perform the marital relations in darkness. “They grow up in a prison & then get married into one.” The sadness of this thought shook me, thinking of how repressed women are. But despite that, the strong character of 16-year-old Mehar, shone through as she went about village life. Fast forward to 1999 - Mehar’s unnamed 19-year-old great-grandson, a Heroin addict, returns to the farm to go cold turkey. He bides his time in the China Room, where Mehar was sequestered, and he feels a connection flow through him from over the years. The 1929 rural life fascinated me – the dung patties, candle making, foraging for vegetables, delivering food to the farmworkers. Sahota’s vivid visions of village life are authentic for someone who has been to India only a handful of times. What I loved – - Mehar’s story of love & lust is heartbreaking – falling prey to the desire of a man because she was blindfolded by traditions. - The Indian's cry for Azaadi from colonization is beautifully portrayed through the form of Tejh Singh’s call for arms. - Mehar’s great-grandson, went through a process of self-discovery, making connections with people and the land, which was an insightful journey. - The flashbacks into the great-grandson’s childhood, where he was a victim of racism in London, led to his addiction. Apart from Mehar's story, this caused me a lot of heartbreak. I would have loved to know more about Radhika and the teacher, but it was touched on lightly. FACT - Sahota weaved this story taking instances from his own experience in London of racism and his great grandmother, who was one of 4 veiled daughters-in-law, who did not know who the husband was.

What I loved about this book: it's premise looked pretty promising and the author mentioning inspiration of real life family events behind the story, made me even more curious about reading this book. Some parts of the book are really well done- be it narration, or description of people, events and timeline. Also, it covers a spectrum of experiences- one that of Indian women in 20th century, a joint family, a Punjabi, an Indian immigrant in London, one that of a drug addict, all being woven into interconnected narrative. What I did not like- lack of depth to the crux of the story, which I'm presuming to be "love". There are certain shallow points in the narrative- very specific to women portrayal, depiction of physical intimacy as equivalent to love and an inconclusive ending. Keeping my pain points with the book aside, I did enjoy the book. At no point was it really dull or something I would put aside. I just feel certain improvised elements in the book could have helped bolster the reader's experience. Happy Reading!

China Room tells the story of Mehar, a teenage girl in rural Punjab, in 1929, who is married to one of three brothers in a triple ceremony. She lives in the china room with the other two brides, spending her days working on the farm and trying to figure out which brother is her husband. After witnessing an exchange, she arrives at an assumption, which sets into motion a whole series of events. Paralleling Mehar's story is the story, set in 1999, of a teenage boy, on the cusp of adulthood, sent to India from England to stay with relatives, to detoxify from a soul-crushing addiction. While battling the horrific symptoms of withdrawal, he decides to relocate from his uncle's house to the old family farm, now fallen into ruin. While there he discovers the china room and hears whisperings of the woman who used to live inside it. Mehar's story was by far the superior. It was way more developed and fleshed-out than that of the young mans'. His almost seemed to be added as an aftermath, a way to pad up a short novel. It didn't really add anything to the story, and I found myself skimming over his parts, eager to get back to Mehar. I felt like his storyline had a lot of wasted potential, it could have been so much more. Mehar's on the other hand was intriguing and, at times, suspenseful. I felt connected to her in a way I didn't expect, and it turned out to be a very emotional read. My only complaint would be that I felt like the ending was a little rushed, I wish we could've known more about what happened in her life after the events at the end of the book. A recurring theme in both timelines is about the role of the woman, and how she is treated in society: Mehar has no rights, and is the property of her husband, yet she gains status and respect if married to the eldest son - much like Mai, mother of the three brothers and matriarch of the family, who commands respect and obedience. In the other storyline we see the protagonist befriending a young female doctor, an independent woman, but who finds it difficult to find work and respect in her field. Then there is the sad story of his aunt, a bitter woman, frustrated in her life and marriage because forced to forgo her true love and marry someone else. In both storylines, characters speak with hope about a modernising India, one that will come with change for the better. It was an enjoyable, emotional and easy read. It's four stars from me.

Thank you to Viking and Penguin Publishing for the gifted copy. China Room is a story interwoven between two time periods: Mehar from 1929, and a young man in the throws of addiction in 1999. Mehar is a teen bride in rural Punjab, who, along with her new sisters, were all married in a single ceremony. The sisters spend their days veiled and away from the men, thus none know who they are actually married to. Unsatisfied with not knowing, Mehar studies the voices and the hands of each man as she serves their tea. One day, she witnesses an exchange and she believes she finally solves the mystery of her husband's identity, but her sleuthing may put several people in danger. Fast forward to 1999, and a young man with a devastating addiction arrives to his family's ancestral home to suffer through his withdrawal. As he tries to put himself back together, he finds it helps to try to restore his abandoned family home to its former glory. China Room is a beautifully written though melancholy book. Even though the book is less than 250 pages, there is enough despair present to last a lifetime. Knowing it is partly based on the author's own family experiences makes it all the more interesting. I found I was much more interested in Mehar's sections of the story, but ultimately enjoyed how the two storylines wove together. Worth noting: based on the synopsis I would think it is pretty evident there will be some dark subject matter present throughout the book. While I don't feel it constitutes trigger warnings (I genuinely do feel the synopsis is warning enough), it may be difficult for some readers to get through.

Just 4 stars. I know, I know… how does a Booker Prize winner rate less than 5? I grappled a little with this review. It’s my first Damon Galgut novel and I certainly can appreciate what he has achieved in weaving a story of family dysfunction set against the backdrop on South Africa’s modern political and social history. Was the symbolism intentional or something I searched for in the text? My gripes: Did I detect mixed tenses? If so, hats off. It takes a skilful, confident writer to pull this off. Had I not read two books back-to-back that both adopted the style of no quotation marks, I would not have raised this as a ‘gripe’, but I must confess I sought out my next book that had the ‘old-fashion’ style. A trivial point, but it can’t ignore it contributed to lower rating. The main ensemble of white characters is unappealing, but real. The black characters delegated to the fringes of the prose - the racism necessary for authenticity, but jarring. Now I’ve got that all off my chest, there are some plusses: I felt as though Galgut often took the reader on a journey that felt like a uninterrupted screen shot, moving through rooms, through countrysides, generations, events and spaces in times. There is some excellent writing, for example, ‘You come back from a long vanishment and the surface closes as if you were never gone. Family quicksand.’ CB

Winner of the 2021 Booker Prize The reader. The reader lives in Johannesburg — has been living in Johannesburg since 1995 — and is nervous about picking up a book that grapple’s with South Africa’s past. Is it an account of South African history written mainly for the edification of the Western gaze? Does it say anything new or surprising about the legacy of apartheid to South Africans living in the present day? Now travel 1,400km South from Johannesburg to Cape Town, and behold the author, Damon Galgut. Twice shortlisted for the Booker prize. Recent work on a film script has unleashed new creative forces within him and he approaches his latest material with the freedom and playfulness of a screenplay — his camera pans from character to character, zooms in on certain individuals, lingers for a while, and then zooms out, giving us the perspectives of different generations, circumstances, even animal consciousness. Now zoom out and behold South Africa as a whole, across four chapters, four decades and four seasons: Spring of 1986 Winter of 1995 Autumn of 2004 Summer of 2018 A South African seasonal quartet, if you will, narrating seminal events in South African history (from the fall of apartheid, to the jubilation following the 1995 Rugby World Cup, to the HIV/AIDS crisis under the reign of Thabo Mebki, to the resignation of Jacob Zuma). Promise (spring) followed by Defeat (winter), then Return (autumn) and Ripening (summer) — each season reflecting a different tonal palette in South Africa’s past. Now look at the Swart family, the Afrikaans farm-holding family at the center of this novel, through which we observe the decades above: Ma, Pa and three children (Astrid, Anton and Amor). Each chapter concerns itself with a family funeral, examining the changes (political and personal) the intervening years have wrought. Do you hear that? Thump, thump goes the heartbeat of the reader, as she works her way through the story. As more and more members of the Swart family perish, the plot becomes increasingly dramatic — the reading experience more tense and more engrossing than the reader had ultimately expected. Now turn your attention, for a moment, to the matters making headlines in present day South Africa. Notice the repetition of a certain phrase, like the beating of a drum – LAND EXPROPRIATION WITHOUT COMPENSATION. The Constitution has recently been amended to accelerate land reform – the seizure of land from private owners to place it in the hands of underprivileged communities with a historical claim on that land. Notice the fable at the heart of the Promise and how it addresses this particular challenge. Notice also how the voices of the Swart family children represent different (white) perspectives on the matter, from vehement opposition (Astrid), to acquiescence but inaction (Anton), to reparation and reframing (Amor). Now look at yourself in that mirror over there. No, really look at yourself. You may be living in the UK or the US, or perhaps the Antipodes. When it comes to the issue of sharing your own inherited resources with those historically disadvantaged, are you more Astrid or more Amor? Or perhaps you are Anton? Is it even yours to share in the first place? That, my friends, is the question. Mood: Filmic Rating: 8/10 Also on Instagram. Notes More details on chapter timelines: Chapter 1: Spring of 1986 (clues: “the jacarandas are all in bloom” and “jacaranda blossoms pop absurdly underfoot”) Chapter 2: Winter of 1995 (clues: “yesterday was a public holiday, Youth Day”, which is 16 June, plus description of Rugby World Cup final, which took place on 24 June 1995) Chapter 3: Autumn of 2004 (clues: mention of Thabo Mbeki’s second inauguration which took place on 27 April 2004, plus descriptions of “brown grass verges and jacarandas losing their leaves”) Chapter 4: Summer of late 2017 / early 2018 (clues: “It’s a public holiday, Reconciliation Day” which takes place on December 16th, up to the resignation of Jacob Zuma which took place on 14 February 2018)

Now, as predicted, winner of the Booker Prize 2021 Damon Galgut tells the story of an affluent white family who owns a farm near Pretoria, and then loses everything. The title refers to the promise the father made to the dying mother: Their Black maid Salome should become the owner of the house in which she and her family have lived (yes, please note the reference to King Salomon and thus the question of reconciliation in post-Apartheid South Africa). But for various reasons, the promise isn't kept for a very long time...the issue arises again and again over the years, causing arguments between the father and his children, Anton, Astrid, and Amor. The book opens in 1986, when Anton is a soldier for the pro-Apartheid government, Astrid a teenager and Amor 13 years old. The whole story is divided in four parts, the second one set in 1995 (if my calculations are correct), the third in 2004 and the last one in 2018. Each part involves one character dying and the ones left behind grappling with the situation and pondering the persona and roles of the deceased. In this dysfunctional family, everyone is looking for salvation, but they attempt very different methods. While the characters struggle, the political landscape around them is changing rapidly, and one can't claim that they are on the progressive side of things - mostly, they remain apathetic, with Amor deliberately seeking out confrontation with personal pain. The Black characters remain obscure, their thoughts, traits and interests play (almost) no role in the text - and this is deliberate. The white characters remain caught up in the white gaze, mainly talking about Black people, looking at them without wanting to see. Rather, they project their own feelings and ideas onto them, thus trying to deal with their own guilt and personal decisions. They are trying to craft a narrative (one even attempting his hand as a memoirist), but this narrative keeps falling apart, suffocating and making no sense because it is closed off from the country at large. The star of the novel is its narrative voice that oscillates between perspectives as well as the first, second and third person singular, sometimes breaking the fourth wall, sometimes addressing the characters, sometimes underlining the fact that this story is fictional by pointing out potential inconsistencies or pondering whether events really took place as described. Who or what is this narrator? - the question becomes more and more compelling, adding suspense to the story. It might be a wandering soul, a ghost (of history / guilt), or even a God-like figure. Religion is an important undercurrent in every chapter, as the characters turn to different faiths or spiritual beliefs, so a rabbi, a pastor, a priest, and even a new age yoga teacher play crucial roles. This religious theme is often connected to the question of guilt, most obviously when discussing the Catholic confession and the need to repent in order to be granted absolution. In this context, it's also interesting to ponder who Amor actually is: As a six-year-old, she was struck by lightning, and has since been perceived as strange by her family. While at first described as a little slow, they later turn to her because she is easy to talk to, which also makes her a priest-like figure - for white people. Is Amor really the personification of love? No spoilers, but Galgut did definitely not write an undercomplex text. All in all, this is a smart, captivating text, crafted in an unusal narrative voice. The Booker judges sure made some good calls this year. This is my winner.

I don’t know if this book rightfully won the 2021 Booker Prize since I haven’t read any of the other five that made the shortlist; I understand why it made the list in the first place though. The story ticked all the ‘right’ thematic boxes of our times: Injustice, check. Disillusionment, check. Decline, check. Trauma, check. Life & Death, check & check. All of the above apply to both the social and personal aspects of the novel. The social frame is South Africa in the four decades following the fall of Apartheid. Against this background the story of the Swarts, a white family of considerable wealth, unfolds. We follow them, stopping at intervals of roughly ten years, all the way through to the demise of all but the youngest daughter. Their conduct and attitudes, along with those of all the characters who make an even fleeting appearance, a proper circus, reflect the restlessness and discomfort of a country that just can’t let go of its past. A country the citizens of which, same as its leaders, aren’t too keen on keeping the promises they once made to even those closest to them. Nothing new here, of course, and we are strongly reminded that there’s a price to be paid for such inconsistency. Is this a moral tale then? It could be but the author steers clear of that. He uses a third-person narrative voice that is too cynical and mocking to allow his readers the notion they are being lectured. This voice not only narrates but goes as far as to directly address, even chastise, us readers along with the characters! It is a decidedly intriguing approach and tricky to handle. It amused me for the most part but at some point I started feeling uneasy. Damon Galgut left me with the sense that not only did he not remain impartial, he actually detested most of his characters. I can live with unlikable characters and I’ve met plenty in my reading life but I’ve never met any who were disliked by their own creator. How else to explain a certain hastiness and the many clichés he’s using when sketching them? They were all so predictable... I can’t accept this was due to lack of depth or inventiveness on his part. Perhaps he wanted to demonstrate how we all (even the most colorful among us) are just the sum of our clichéd behaviours and shortcomings. If that’s the case then he did a pretty good job but if he had gone a bit deeper he would have done a much better one. Whatever the case, this was a remarkably readable book despite the sense of uneasiness it left me with. Nothing new here either; another cliché in a long string of ones that seem to be a fundamental part of our lives. I find it easier to accept them there than in prize-winning novels, though.

4.5 The story of a white South African farming family and a promise that was made when the dying mother asked her husband to put the house that their black maid Salome had been living on for many years..be put in Salome’s name. He promised her and it didn’t happen. From that time forward the family literally disintegrates. Nothing but bad things happen. The story follows this family for approximately the next 30 yrs. Brilliant writing!. Booker Prize winner 2021

Winner of the 2021 Booker Prize, a book I enjoyed in literary terms but was disappointed with as a choice for such a high profile prize. But some things you do know, because you saw them yourself. In the same impassive way that Salome sweeps and cleans the house and washes the clothes of the people who live in it, she looked after Ma through her last illness, dressing and undressing her, helping her to bathe with a bucket of hot water and a lappie, helping her to go to the toilet, yes, even wiping her arse for her after she used the bedpan, mopping up blood and shit and pus and piss, all the jobs that people in her own family didn't want to do, too dirty or too intimate, Let Salome do it, that's what she's paid for, isn't it? She was with Ma when she died, right there next to the bed, though nobody seems to see her, she is apparently invisible. And what-ever Salome feels is invisible too. She has been told, Clean up here, wash the sheets, and she obeys, she cleans up, she washes the sheets. But Amor can see her through the window, so she's not invisible after all. Thinking about a memory, not understood till now, of an afternoon just two weeks ago, in that same room, with Ma and Pa. They forgot I was there, in the corner. They didn't see me, I was like a black woman to them. (Do you promise me, Manie? Holding on to him, skeleton hands grabbing, like in a horror film. Ja, I'll do it. Because I really want her to have something. After everything she's done. I understand, he says. Promise me you'll do it. Say the words. I promise, Pa says, choked-sounding.) Damon Galgut's The Promise is formally ambitious. The novel is structured around four family funerals, set around ten years apart, among a white South-African family, each coinciding with a significant event in the country's move to democracy and a non-racial system, with the reader largely left to infer what happened in-between. From the author (https://johannesburgreviewofbooks.com... Some people die, but there are always more stepping in. This is a history of the living, not the dead. And starting with that as a framework I sort of went sideways and thought, well, you could do more than just tell the family history, you could, if you spaced those funerals out in different decades of South African history, open the window a little bit wider and show some of the background of where South Africa was at that point. So the structure of the book is basically four snapshots in each of which a member of the same family has been put into the ground. But you’re seeing more or less the same cast of characters, a little bit older, maybe not wiser, but different. So that’s how I arrived at the structure of it. Like other writers I’m always looking for unusual ways to tell stories, because most of the stories have been told by now, it’s just the ways of telling that are new. But to me it was most commendable for its distinctive narrative voice, one that most reminded me of the great Jose Saramago with its, at times rather pointed, authorial interjections, those something Galgut himself mentions in the pages of the book via Amor, reading her late brother Aaron's novel-in-draft written by one of the characters: There are interjections from the author in the margin too. Is this a family saga or a farm novel? one says. And another, Weather is indifferent to history! And also, Is this comedy or tragedy? These interjections take over, till very soon there is no story left, just a rough scheme of what the writer still intended. Part Three would be called Autumn and in it Aaron would return to the farm. He faces various challenges there, malign forces want to bring about his downfall, but he will ultimately triumph in Part Four, where Summer reigns. The phases of the man's life, separated by intervals of roughly ten years, ten years, will map out his development into full maturity, from promise through defeat to return and ripening, in tandem with the seasons. The author himself has more acknowledged the explicit influence of Virginia Woolf (which I can also see in the way the narrative PoV flits from character to character) an author he only came to recently, but critic James Wood also picked up on the Saramago comparison in his New Yorker review (https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/20... Galgut uses his narrator playfully, assisted by nicely wayward run-on sentences. Technically, it’s a combination of free indirect style (third-person narration pegged to a specific character) and what might be called unidentified free indirect style (third-person narration pegged to a shadowy narrator, or a vague village chorus). As the Portuguese novelist José Saramago does, Galgut outsources his storytelling, handing off a phrase or an insight to an indistinct community of what seem to be wise elders, who then produce an ironically platitudinous or proverbial commentary. It is at times hard to get away from the fact that the narrator is somewhat prejudiced, even if this can be seen as an ironic (?) comment on the after-effects of apartheid on the white psyche. E.g. when Amor the main "good character" return to South Africa post-apartheid the narrator comments on her behalf "Never did the middle of town look like this, so many black people drifting casually about, as if they belong here. It’s almost like an African city!”. Galgut himself has explained (and the 'fun' here, even with his qualification, is an dd odd comment): I decided early on that this is a book about white South Africans, it’s about the white South African psyche, if there is an entity like that, and I thought I would look at the black characters that turn up in the story only as far as the white gaze of this narration would go, which is to say not very far at all. So there was a certain amount of fun, painful fun but fun nevertheless, in giving you a little bit of knowledge about these black characters and then stopping right there, because I know the white characters in this house would not have enquired any further than that, so that’s as much as I’m telling my audience as well. In a way my not telling you something tells you something about how people think. And in the context of the overall Booker list, it is hard not to be disappointed that the continent of Africa is represented by two books written by white South African writers, both of which take an authorial decision to essentially exclude the voice of the 'victim' (for non-sinister reasons I would add ie. to avoid appropriation, and to highlight the ignorance that triggers racism/xenophobia even among, as in The Island, those who were themselves victims of colonialism and dictatorships), and both of which focus on the failings of post-colonial post-democratic African states. (view spoiler) Overall, I can certainly see the issues my twin had with the novel (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) although a novel whose narrative voice elevates it for me above much of a bland Booker list.

“The Promise” is an unusual and provocative book.The novel focuses on a farming family living outside Pretoria. The Swart family are descendants of the Voortrekkers.They are blinded by the privilege their birth has granted them.Their story chronicles their struggles and responses to the social and political upheaval surrounding post apartheid South Africa,causing one to ponder the direction of the society. The plot is structured around four funerals spanning thirty plus years.The central concern of the novel occurs when the youngest daughter,Amor, overhears her dying mother,Rachel, make her husband promise to give Rachel’s black nurse, Salome, ownership of her home.The failure of the family to honor this promise propels the storyline forward and reveals the personal and social fissures that beset South Africa. There is an overriding sense of decay and dysfunction permeating the Swart family from the outset.The narrative is linear but is laced with shifting interior monologues for each character, often switching points of view within the same paragraph.This style is reminiscent of James Joyce and serves to emphasize the disjointedness of both the family and the society as a whole.Interestingly, there is no recurring black point of view expressed throughout the book.I think this omission is intentional, serving to emphasize the lack of cohesion in the post apartheid society. The broken promise and the decrepit home at the heart of the promise are symbols of a nation struggling for its soul.This struggle is not limited to South Africa but is playing out worldwide.Through the incisive portrayal of the Swart family, Damon Galgat highlights political and societal concerns that are reverberating everywhere.4.5 stars.

4.5 stars — This was like sampling a new variety of wine at the local vineyard: Dry and bitter at first to my palate, almost to the point of being undrinkable. But after several slow sips to savor and settle into its unique, piquant flavor, my cheeks were flushed and I was feeling a warm, tipsy buzz. (Please indulge my recent food and drink metaphors. Somebody is clearly ready for Thanksgiving Dinner). This epic story following a white South African family across several decades and against the backdrop of that country’s tumultuous transition from apartheid to democracy, is told through an idiosyncratic narrative voice that is difficult to describe. Imagine Faulkner's As I Lay Dying, just set in late 20th century South Africa instead of the American South, with quite a few more dead bodies, and without the rotating character POV's clearly separated by chapter breaks. Instead, this novel's narrative voice sort of hovers above and around and within ALL of its characters, all at once, major and minor, like a restless haunting spirit jumping from body to body, occasionally even shifting narrative perspectives mid-paragraph. It's an unusual and potentially alienating approach that ultimately worked for me, but did take some getting used to. This, combined with the frequent and dramatic time jumps, had the effect of keeping me at an emotional distance much of the time. Like I was just casually skimming the water's surface, never diving as deeply into any one character's story (or the larger geographical and historical context) as I would have preferred. But really I'm just nitpicking a novel that delivered so much of what I love and look for in the books I pick up: Lyrical (but at the same time accessible) writing that reveals or reminds me of profound truths about our shared human condition; richly imagined, deeply flawed characters; and a suspenseful story with a compelling historical context. The Faulkner comparisons don't end with that shifting narrative voice either. If there's a genre known as "South African Gothic," then this is certainly it. And many of you already know my weakness for all things grim, gritty, and gothic. While the geographical setting and historical backdrop did make this novel unique, these broader gothic themes were what I found most provocative and haunting in the end: The dark, shocking secrets lurking beneath the smiling faces of one's neighbors, lovers, religious leaders, police officers, undertakers, even one's own family members. The fascination with rotting human corpses and reminders of our own inescapable aging and mortality. The examination of historical memory and generational curses, what happens to families (and countries) that refuse to reckon honestly with and atone fully for the sins of their Past. And of course that deliciously pitch-black humor about our frailty and failings (but also our "promise") as a species. Pour me another glass, please, this next round is on me.

Now that it has finally happened Amor is finding it almost impossible to believe that her mother is indeed dead, has passed from this life. Nothing seems real. Amor’s aunt, Tannie, arrives at Amor’s school to pick her up. She reminds Amor that her mother betrayed the family by returning to her old religion. To once again become a Jew. Tannie is very vocal and bitter about the betrayal. Scathing in her criticism, she ends by telling Amor that she hopes that God has forgiven her and that she is at peace. However, in the car, Tannie and her uncle, make little effort in hiding the fact that they are both happy to see that their brother’s wife has finally passed. The novel’s name comes from a promise Amor’s father made to her mother on her deathbed. A promise that he would give the house to Salome, the black maid who had helped her mother so much through the last unbearable months of illness. A promise that at the time under apartheid could never be fulfilled. But a young Amor, who overhears the promise, does not understand this and expects the promise to be kept. This promise, once broken becomes a curse, heralding the fall of the white South African Swart family, with everybody apart from Amor, becoming plagued with problems. Her father comes to an ignominious end, bitten by a cobra during a religious stunt. Anton, her brother is plagued with guilt after shooting a young black girl who threw a rock at him during the protests. He is a soldier and decides to desert. Astrid, her older sister, seems to be perpetually unhappy as time goes on, obsessed with power and social status. The novel is broken into four parts, with each part named after a member of the Swart family. The reader will quickly realize that each part signifies death for the family member of the title. This is not a cheery type of book. The four parts of the novel span four decades and cover important parts of South Africa’s History, from the fall of apartheid and Mandela’s release from prison, the world cup rugby finals that South Africa were, with apartheid gone, allowed to partake in, to Mbeki’s inauguration. Galgut’s writing can be a little tricky at times as he shifts perspective rapidly from character to character. He will also shift quickly from first person to third and second with little warning. We never find who the unnamed narrator is. This can be a little jarring but once the reader becomes used to this style, it is very effective, giving a broad view of the narrative. It also feels like Galgut is using the Swart family and their demise as a metaphor for the fall of apartheid. Their loss of power and status mimicking the loss of power and the stranglehold the white man had over the country during apartheid. The house and land a representation of the country, that is eventually returned to the rightful owners. A very enjoyable and well written read.

71st book of 2022. Artist for this review is South African painter Jacobus Hendrik Pierneef (1886-1957). 3.5/4. In a strange way you always know what you're expecting from a Booker winner, I think a lot of the same stuff circles back around. The Promise is about the slow collapse of the Afrikaner Swart family in South Africa. It spans about four decades over 4 parts, from the 1980s to 2018. The story is fairly simple, surrounding a promise made at the beginning of the book by the Swart father to the mother, about giving their black maid the house she lives in on their farm. This promise is overheard by one of the daughters, who remembers it. Around that promise is the collapse of the family through various deaths and ailments. Galgut's style is perhaps what won him the Booker: reminiscent of the modernists, it's a head-hopping extravaganza filled with stream-of-conscious and Woolf-Faulkner-Joyce tendencies. And I'm a sucker for modernism. "'n Somersmiddag, Bosveld" — 1928 "Dar-es-Salaam" — 1926 Galgut's prose control is something to be admired, and at times perhaps he runs away a little with it, but on the whole I was impressed throughout. The plot has some dramatic moments but the ending was handled surprisingly well; it's always a worry when a novel builds towards something for 300 pages. It's easy to be disappointed. I'd be interested to read some of his other novels to see what his prose is like when he's not doing this Faulknerian family saga thing. Don't be put off by the hideously boring cover: the novel feels very alive and the modernist/not-modernist style is worth it alone. My gap in South African reading is so large I think this honestly could be my first. Not a bad way to start. Naturally, it reminded me of other family generational stories and many bits felt reminiscent of Marquez for some reason. There is a small part where Galgut imagines the ghost of one his characters, but there is no magical realism to speak of. Perhaps it's simply the power of the novel, the fact we can read a family's story in 300 pages that gives the potential of magic.

4.5/5 Winner Booker Prize 2021 Worthy winner of 2021 Booker Prize. The Promise follows the lives of a white South African farming family in the years immediately preceding and following apartheid. A home on their family property is inhabited by a black maid, Salome, who has worked for the family for many years. The mother of the family, Rachel, makes a deathbed request that this home be given to Salome and Rachel's husband, Manie, promises to do so but then fails to follow through. The novel follows the lives and experiences of this family, especially the children Anton, Astrid and Amor (revolving around a series of funerals) and their failure to acknowledge and honor this promise. Although the youngest daughter, Amor, does act as something of a conscience by reminding her father and siblings of this failure to honor the mothers wish and respect Salome's rights. For me though the strength of the novel and its stand-out quality is the narrative perspective which fluidly shifts registers among the different members of the Swart family. Here though as readers we become mired and almost trapped in this white South African perspective and voice, that gradually coheres as something of an inter-generational, collective consciousness. The assumed everyday racism and white entitlement is just so powerfully conveyed and captured through this narrative. It becomes quite unsettling, precisely because it is so everyday and mundane. Galgut quite ruthlessly exposes these characters and their myopic world-views in ways that also at moments are quite funny. The point Galgut makes here for me isn't just showing off brilliant narrative craft, he is doing so in the service of making important socio-political observation and critique without hitting us over the head with that theme or message. This fluidly shifting narrative consciousness quite brilliantly exposes the privileged white South African gaze. This collective voice is just so damning. A brilliant and subtle work.

4 1/2 ⭐️ Dark, depressing story of a South African family, told through many decades. To its credit, it never gets sentimental or maudlin. Actions of the characters always felt true. Families aren’t neat. They’re messy. Very good book. I’ll be looking to read more from this author.

i keep taking this off my tbr and then adding it back 2 months later until i finally decreed it there to stay. good call. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... someone in the comments told me that this book is best read in a day or two. unfortunately i was reading 6 other books at the time, as is my wont as an unhinged person, but. they were right, and i did read it in three. these characters, hard to like and complex, interested me right away, as did this breathlessly close writing and suffocating plot. but it wasn't until i got two-thirds of the way through (and on the third day) that i found myself unable to put this book down. this manages to be that rare thing of an excellent, tight story and thematic riches. that does mean its first half drags, lulling its reader, but it's a trade i'll take. bottom line: you guys told me to read this one, and you were right.

Now Winner of the Women's Prize for Fiction 2025 Nominated for the Dylan Thomas Prize 2025 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2024 The first Dutch author to be longlisted for the Booker, van der Wouden gives us a somewhat traditionally told story with a twist ending that you see coming from a mile away, but the deep empathy for her characters and the fact that this is a story about the aftermath of World War II told from a perspective I have never read before have won me over: This debut novel about a stolen home might not be the most aesthetically daring feat to ever make it on the Booker list, but it's a page turner with complex queer characters about an important issue, which is a lot more than we can say about many Booker nominees in recent years. With the historic theme of dispossession, van der Wouden pairs the psychological theme of repression: Our protagonist is Isabel, a lonely young woman with obsessive-compulsive traits who struggles to connect with other people. It's 1961, and after the death of her parents, she lives alone in a remote house, while her gay brother Hendrik has made a home with his half-Algerian boyfriend Sebastian and her second brother Louis spends his days in the big city womanizing. When Louis asks Isabel to let his latest romantic, no, rather: sexual interest, Eva, an apparently rather poor girl, stay at the family home with Isabel while he is abroad for business, Isabel has no choice but to agree: The house officially belongs to her uncle, and it is promised to Louis, she is only tolerated there as long as her brother agrees. What then ensues is a chamber play revolving around personal memories, historic guilt and submerged emotions coming to the surface. All of this is very well plotted, and I liked how the author employs her two main symbols, the pear that you can also see on the cover (hello, peach in Call Me By Your Name) and the hare that appears in different contexts. I greatly enjoyed how she constructed those believable, damaged, messy characters, and how the story never plays its heavy historic content in a cheap, melodramatic way. There are also quite some sex scenes in here, which, as all of us Haruki Murakami stans are painfully aware, is a challenging subject to pull off even for the best (Garth Greenwell is still the contemporary GOAT in this category). So a well-deserved entry on the Booker list, and I applaud the judges for taking a closer look at authors writing in English, but hailing from outside the English-speaking world. You can listen to the podcast crew discuss the upcoming German In ihrem Haus translation in our Booker special: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️.25 a gut punch of a novel and a love story to literature, this was so beautiful and got such a visceral reaction from me (the ending especially)! would highly highly recommend

In 1961, a house in rural Netherlands harbors secrets and deceptions that are rooted in the past, propelling its residents on a journey of discovery and reckoning.The journey uncovers the rationalizations and self deceptions that individuals and society use to soothe consciences and obscure intentions. “ Isabel found a broken piece of ceramic under the roots of a dead gourd…the vegetable garden was shrinking into itself…Isabel was on her knees, gloved hands and a stringed hat, removing dying things.The shard nicked through her glove, pierced a little hole. “ It had once been a plate, which was part of a set—-her mother’s favorite: the good China, for holidays, for guests. “ There was no explanation for the broken piece, for where it had come from and why it had been buried.” These excerpts from the opening paragraphs introduce Isabel and contain elements of intrigue and thematic symbolism that are present throughout the novel.Isabel has struggled to come to terms with her mother's death.On her sunniest days she is persnickety and judgmental.She is living in her family home although she has no legal claim to the property.The home is promised to her older brother Louis as soon as he weds. Isabel is relegated to a custodial role, channeling her emotional struggles into obsessive possessiveness of the household and its objects. The house has become a protective shield for Isabel, swaddling her in a barrier that repels physical and emotional incursions into the boundaries of her domestic safe space. The moorings of Isabel's world begin to shift during a luncheon with Louis and her younger brother Hendrick. Louis, a serial womanizer, has brought Eva, the latest object of his affection, to the family luncheon.Eva’s persona is the obverse of all that Isabel holds dear. Eva’s impoverished background does not align with Isabel’s tightly ordered middle class existence. She is brasher and more free in her personal interactions. She is more comfortable in her body and unrestrained in physical expression. Shortly after the luncheon, Louis arrives at the family home and insists that Isabel open the home to Eva for one month while he travels abroad. Eva’s entry into Isabel’s domain launches the expository and thematic elements of the novel.Within the constricted confines of the house, the two women haltingly circle each other in a dance of suspicion, repulsion and attraction.Their emotional thrusts and parries explore displacement and trauma that is fueled by love, obsession and retribution. Their stories reach back to World War Two and encompass efforts to deal with guilt and avoidance on both personal and societal levels. The narrative engages one’s interest as these expository and thematic strands develop.However, the novel is not without its flaws. The writing can become slightly disjointed and there is a “ twist” to Eva’s story that becomes obvious well before it is revealed. The storyline vacillates between psychological thriller, erotic love story and historical polemic without smooth synthesis. Ultimately, these flaws are overshadowed by the novel’s strengths. Throughout there is a recurring thread of reckoning and avoidance that are interwoven on personal and geopolitical levels. The stories of Isabel and Eva are stories of personal and physical awakening stimulated by contact with people and ideas not previously familiar to either protagonist. In this journey, the family home or “ Safekeep” becomes both a silent character and an oxymoronic metaphor. The history of the family home intertwines with the characters’ life arcs and prompts the realization that a home can either protect or oppress. It can protect memories and give comfort while also limiting options and excluding outside influences.Both individuals and societies struggle to balance and manage these conflicting impulses. “The Safekeep” chronicles a journey that poses questions relevant to all sentient beings.

[4.25] Readers complain mostly about two things in this book. One is a gripe about gratuitous sex. So, depending on what you think is sexy, chapter 10 may be hot or not. The other is that the big twist was no surprise, the reader had figured it out. But I think the author purposely dropped clues like acid rain along the way, luring us to follow her lead. We weren’t reading in order to solve the mystery; rather, we came as voyeurs, or, if lucky, we twinned with the characters as the truth is revealed. One character’s truth is the other’s harrowing discovery. This is the first novel I’ve ever read that covered this little-known persecution of Jews that extends to beyond the Holocaust. Still, I gave it four stars. I was deeply absorbed in the narrative but I did think the conversations/dialogue contained too many ellipses that seems written for cinema rather than a book. It may be realistic, as people often talk over each other--or drop words, thoughts-- or mumble something incomprehensible, but it gets tedious for me as reader. Give it to me on the screen, but “mumblecore” in serious, historical novels pauses the pace. A few scenes were also a bit flat and repetitive, at least until later, when it makes more sense. Isabel and Eva are total opposites, diametrically opposed in numerous ways. Isabel is a control freak that has nothing for herself except the family house, which she keeps tidy (while, inside herself she’s a mess). Even the house isn’t really hers. She is safekeeping it, essentially. Parents have died and the house in the rural Netherlands countryside is left to oldest brother, Louis, who would rather be in the city living the playboy life, one girlfriend after another. Louis asks Isabel if his current lover can stay at the house while he’s out of town. Eva, a spicy spitfire of a young woman with little filter on her thought-to-speech conduit, is judged harshly by Isabel. Isabel is repressed and tightly wound, with a habit of pinching the skin on the back of her hand. She inwardly criticizes Eva’s bottle blonde hair and flirty clothing as cheap and low class. To Isabel, Eva’s restless and chatty behaviors are like “a bee stuck in a room with all the windows shut.” Some of the best parts of the book are not even on the page. Rather, it is in the interpretation of the interlocking pieces of plot and character. Dig to the core and you mine family secrets and hidden cruelties. A cracked, buried plate means multitudes, a diary contains horrors, the eating of a pear exposes concealed appetites. You could design an entire classroom study on this book, but does it appeal to a non-academic reader? Yes, it is visceral, revealing, sexy, and bottomless. It read as noir-ish, with a heavy cloak of dread hovering above the narrative. Hope and redemption are in the air, too. Hunger pervades the story, hunger of many tastes. Isabel “had held a pear in her hand and she had eaten it skin and all. She had eaten the stem and she has eaten its seeds and she had eaten its core, and the hunger still sat in her like an open maw.”

well i didn't plan on reading this in one sitting, whoops lmao

3.5 stars The Safekeep is, to me, a novel set apart by its sensuality in both senses of the word. It's a sensual novel in the way that it's especially attuned to the senses, to its narrator, Isabel's, sensory experience. Isabel is a lonely character. She lives by herself in a country house in a rural part of the Netherlands, her mother dead, her brothers elsewhere. In a way, she lives for that house, to maintain its rooms, to tend to its garden, to keep careful track of its state. The house is an extension of her, and as such her sensory awareness of it is careful and specific. Isabel is attuned to the house, and so we, too, are attuned to her acute sensory experience of it: its spaces, its sounds, its atmosphere, its furniture, its crockery. All of this changes when Isabel's brother brings his girlfriend, Eva, to stay at the country house while he's away. With Eva's arrival, the story tilts. Isabel's keen sensory awareness shifts from an awareness of the house to an awareness of Eva. And it is here that the novel becomes sensual in that second sense of the word: still attuned to sensorial experience, but now in a way that's coloured by attraction, desire--by Isabel's attraction to Eva, her desire for Eva. There is a charge between these two characters, and it is evidenced in the writing, in its careful sensory accounting of Isabel's perceptions. She is so keenly aware of Eva, of her presence, of her gaze, of her looks, of her words. I love books where interactions matter, and this is absolutely one of them. Isabel and Eva's interactions matter because they resonate with the tension that exists between them, a tension that by turns pushes them apart and brings them together. Isabel resists Eva and yet is inexorably drawn to her; she is hostile to Eva and yet is utterly taken in by her presence. Solitary but also closed off and set in her ways, Isabel is then forced to contend with this tension, with the way Eva not only unsettles her routines, but unsettles her. She is attuned to the house, to Eva, to Eva in the house, and those things all blend together in a way that Isabel cannot ignore. At once compounding and competing with each other, these awarenesses make Isabel both more and less aware of the house: Eva's novel presence bringing the house and its routines into sharp relief, and yet also eclipsing it and its previous comfortable familiarity. It's a delicious dynamic, and I loved watching Isabel grapple with and grow into these feelings: repressing them, denying them, acknowledging them, articulating them, acting on them. It's not an easy or comfortable process for her, but this only makes it all the more meaningful when she is finally able to come out of her shell and articulate to herself what (or who) she wants. All of this is to say, there is a tension between these characters, and the novel is not afraid to unravel it, to dwell on it, and to follow it to its end. And I thought it was very much well done: sexy and intimate and authentic to who the characters are and who they become with each other. But more than just sexual tension, there is also another kind of tension in this story, one that is sensed if not entirely understood. This, too, the novel follows to its end. You get answers, and the novel delivers them with real impact and emotion. I honestly really liked this one. It's an efficient novel, the plot pared down to its most essential--and thus effective--elements: a house, two women, and a question mark underlying it all. (thank you to Avid Reader Press for the eARC!)

“No one ever knows anything in this country.” Isabel could be the very definition of a solitary spinster, still young enough to marry but quickly reaching her expiration date. She lives alone in her mother’s rambling house that her Uncle Karel found for Isabel, her two brothers Louis and Hendrick, and their mother at the tail end of the Second World War, when famine tore through the Netherlands. She was a child when they moved into the house, but now, in the 1960s, she lives alone. Her brothers visit, and one day, her womanizing older brother brings around the latest of a string of girlfriends, an odd and flamboyant young woman named Eva. The house will eventually fall to Louis, and he wants Isabel to take in Eva for a month or so while he attends some unexpected business. Every fiber of her being resists it, but at the end of the day, she has no choice but to say “yes.” The initial interactions between Isabel and Eva are tense and suspicious, no matter how hard Eva tries. But gradually, another feeling emerges. And secrets begin to leak out. Careful readers will suspect where this is going. I figured out the key secret of the book early on. Yet I kept reading, fascinated with exploring the self-justifications and erasures that justify the behavior of “decent” individuals in the Netherlands. It’s not a perfect book. The pages of eroticism are, I think, unnecessary. While it showed an all-encompassing awakening, it also pulled me out of the key story. Also the book offers a neatly-tied-up resolution while I would have preferred more ambiguity. That being said, the character development, quality of writing, and leading up of suspense are first-rate. I am grateful to Avid Reader Press for an early copy in exchange for an honest review.

This was a heavy read. The beginning of the book took me a while to get into. The storyline and especially Isabel, as a main character, were slightly offputting. Enter Eva, and things slowly started to develop. By the end, I was reluctant to put the book down.

4.5 stars, video review here - https://www.instagram.com/p/DWefx0kxkzw/ (in portuguese, subtitled in english)

Now Longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2020 You have to give it to Houellebecq that he knows how to ridicule the media hype machine by making it his willing accomplice, so don't get distracted by the flashy trigger words (masturbation! impotence! suicide! paedophilia! sodomy! drugs!) and let's look at the heart of this story that beats underneath all of this, and beats much stronger than the hearts of the people depicted. Houellebecq's new novel is told from the perspective of 46-year old agricultural engineer Florent-Claude Labrouste and has two interwoven narrative strands: In one, Labrouste looks back at his failed love life and tells us about the women he loved (well, or at least had sex with) and lost; in the other, we learn about the tragic destiny of his friend Aymeric with whom he went to university and who became a farmer. Houellebecq himself also studied agricultural engineering and, like Labrouste, used to work for the French Ministry of Agriculture. While Labrouste joins the administrative side, Aymeric turns away from his decadent noble family and starts a biological farm - both end up disillusioned and broken. Although he has become quite wealthy, Labrouste perceives his career as failed because he didn't achieve to protect and support the French farmers against global economic interests, and I will not spoil here what happens to Aymeric, but let me re-assure you that it's absolutely terrible (to claim that these scenes predicted the "gilets jaunes" in France, as many press articles have claimed, seems pretty far-fetched to me though). "Serotonin" makes a strong argument for sustainable farming and against intensive stock-rearing as well as the destruction of the environment, and I am pretty sure that Houellebecq, the moralist, is dead serious with his message. While I do not share his cynical view of the EU or politics in general, I applaud him for putting questions of European agricultural policies at the center of a novel - who else does that? And this guy sure has the power to spark a debate. Now on to the other narrative strand, Labrouste's love life, where we encounter tons of classic Houellebecq themes. Our protagonist, middle-aged, white, lonely and severely depressed, is still longing for his lost love Camille, who he will try to find during the course of the novel, but also tells us about many other women who played a role during his life. Interestingly, Labrouste does believe that true love used to exist, and his parents' marriage is portrayed as perfect and pure like an almost religious ideal - an ideal that, according to Labrouste, has been corrupted by postmodern hardcore capitalism and the commodification of human beings. And now we're of course right in the middle of the classic Houellebecq discourse: Sexual escapades, (aging) men possessed by their lust for (young) women/men, women having sex to gain some advantage, hookers, sex tourism, child abuse etc. pp. - decay that is brought about by spiritual emptiness. Many, many ideas Houellebecq utters in different contexts (which does not mean that he necessarily means them, but that that doesn't even matter here) are questionable and I strongly disagree with a lot of what he says, but again, to write a book that so brutally focuses on the devastating effects of loneliness and the feeling of defeat certainly does have merit in times like ours. It's not about agreeing with this author, it's about discussing what he says. The title-giving "Serotonin" is of course a neurotransmitter that - among other things - contributes to feelings of well-being and happiness. Our narrator is prescribed a new kind of anti-depressant to increase his serotonin levels, a drug that has impotence as a side effect and that allows the patient to function in a commodified world. That's what it comes down to: Labrouste is struggling to function, but for what, and for how long? This book will cause you some laughs, it will make you think and sometimes shake your head, it has some lengths that will annoy you, it has twists that will make you gasp, you will be fascinated and appalled, but above all - and I guess that's why some people are desperately trying to write all of this off as irony - this is a book about alienation and pain-stakingly sad. Houellebecq, still one of the greatest living authors.

[Before reading] Celebrity Death Match Special: Sérotonine versus Snow White Payot! Payot! It's off to shop we go! With a hammer and a pick and Houellebecq's dick Payot! Payot, Payot, Payot! Winner: the inevitable collapse of Western society _______________________________ [After reading] As usual, the idiots who just flick through the pages looking for things to get agitated about have found passages to fill up their vacuous articles, and you will see ugly woman academics who have made a profession out of arguing that most normal male behaviour is morally wrong complaining that the book, for example, contains detailed descriptions of girls being fucked by two dogs at once, or what you will see if you watch a piece of amateur child pornography; naturally one expects this, it's unfair to blame them, perhaps there is a clause in their contracts which obliges them to write this kind of piece, or more likely they live in perpetual fear that a jealous rival will denounce them for being insufficiently in tune with whatever dogma is currently dominating the narrow circle they inhabit and cut off access to the specialised and unenjoyable kind of sex their beliefs oblige them to practice. But I digress, in fact Houellebecq's latest book is a rather good psychological novel which often manages to be, I expect this to shock the usual suspects even more, insightful, and, not too strong a word, moving; I could go into details, but having got past the sex I imagine that virtually everyone will by now have stopped reading, so, all things considered, it seems to me that I might as well save myself the trouble and stop here. Thank you.

4.5* Longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2020 Kontroversiškasis Houellebecq'as, kaip visada - įdomus. Gali sutikti ar nesutikti su autoriaus nuomonėmis, idėjomis, tačiau tekstu mėgaujiesi visada. Liūdnas, pesimistinis pasakojimas ir kartu kaip tai pati širdingiausiai nuskambėjusi iš mano skaitytų autoriaus knygų. Romano naratorius, pusamžis vyrukas, anot jo psichologo - 'mirštantis iš liūdesio'. Buvusiam agronomui Florent-Claude Labrouste akivaizdžiai trūksta Serotonino, dar vadinamu laimės hormonu. Viso pasakojimo metu juntamas susinaikinimo/išnykimo troškimas. Nemažai aliuzijų į egzistencializmo filosofų, pesimisto E. Cioran tekstus. Pagrindinis charakteris - tai dabartinės Prancūzijos simbolis, pagal autorių. Pavargęs, nusivylęs, kamuojamas depresijos, nesugebantis apsispręsti, pasiryžti, nevykusiai bandantis užsimiršti lengvabūdiškume... Man ši knyga labiau ir yra apie Prancūzijos (iš dalies ir visos ES, ar net viso vakarų pasulio) gyventojų nuotaikas, jų nerimą, nepasitenkinimą, beviltiškumą...Kritikuojama čia tarptautinė prekyba, Briuselio biurokratija, apskritai pažeriama kritikos Europos Sąjungos paskubėtai įgyvendinti ar tiesiog gerai neapgalvotai jos idėjai. Taciau, kaip tai pesimistiškai beskambėtų, ši knyga transliuoja ne beviltiškumą. Greičiau ji kviečia sukrusti ir veikti. Na, nesinori galvoti, kad autorius ragina tautiečius sekti britų pavyzdžiu...bet ką aš žinau. Čia gi Houellebecq'as - didysis provokatorius. Tai va tokia mano šios knygos interpretacija. 'It's a small white, oval, scored tablet. It doesn't create or transform; it interprets. It renders fleeting what was definitive; it renders contingent what was ineluctable. It supplies a new interpretation of life - less rich, less artificial, and marked by a certain rigidity. It provides no form of happiness, or even of real life; its action is of a different kind: by transforming life into a sequence of formalities it allows you to fool yourself. One this basis, it helps people to live, or at least to not die - for a certain period of time.' 'It was a slow, very slow drive between Bagnoles-de-l'Orne and Canville-la-Rocque from the Orne to Manche, along deserted, foggy minor roads [...]. I stopped quite often and tried to remember why I was there, but I couldn't quite do it; banks of fog floated over the pastures, and there were no cows to be seen. I imagine one could have called my journey poetic, but the word has come to give off an irritating impression of lightness and evanescence'.[...] [...]'he had simply wanted to be happy and had devoted himself to a rustic dream of durable, high-value production, and to Cecile, but Cecile had turned out to be a fat slut excited by life in London with a high-society pianist; and the European Union had also been a fat slut with that business about milk quotas; he certainly wouldn't have expected things to end up like this.'

THE‌ ‌GREAT‌ ‌COMPLETIST‌ ‌CHALLENGE:‌ ‌In‌ ‌which‌ ‌I‌ ‌revisit‌ ‌older‌ ‌authors‌ ‌and‌ ‌attempt‌ ‌to‌ ‌read‌ every‌ ‌book‌ ‌they‌ ‌ever‌ ‌wrote‌ Currently‌ ‌in‌ ‌the‌ ‌challenge:‌ ‌Martin‌ ‌Amis‌ |‌ Isaac‌ ‌Asimov's‌ ‌Robot/Empire/Foundation‌ |‌ Margaret‌ Atwood‌ |‌ JG‌ ‌Ballard‌ |‌ Clive‌ ‌Barker‌ |‌ Philip‌ ‌K‌ ‌Dick‌ |‌ Daphne‌ ‌Du‌ ‌Maurier‌ |‌ William‌ ‌Gibson‌ |‌ Michel‌ Houellebecq‌ |‌ John‌ ‌Irving‌ |‌ Kazuo‌ ‌Ishiguro‌ |‌ John‌ ‌Le‌ ‌Carre‌ |‌ Bernard‌ ‌Malamud‌ |‌ China‌ ‌Mieville‌ |‌ VS‌ Naipaul‌ |‌ Chuck‌ ‌Palahniuk‌ |‌ Tim‌ ‌Powers‌ |‌ Terry‌ ‌Pratchett's‌ ‌Discworld‌ |‌ Philip‌ ‌Roth‌ |‌ Neal‌ Stephenson‌ |‌ Jim‌ ‌Thompson‌ |‌ John‌ ‌Updike‌ |‌ Kurt‌ ‌Vonnegut‌ |‌ PG‌ ‌Wodehouse‌ ‌ ‌ Finished:‌ ‌Christopher‌ Buckley‌ |‌ Shirley‌ Jackson‌ Oh brother, here we go again. It's pretty much impossible to not have this reaction anymore when sitting down with a new book by French provocateur Michel Houellebecq, a writer who American liberals don't have the slightest idea how to react to, because there's literally not a single artist in the US who produces this kind of work -- that is, sophisticated and witty literary novels that are adored by the academic community (he literally won the Legion of Honor, the French government's most prestigious non-military award, six months before I'm writing this review), but whose heroes are the exact kind of Trumpian alt-righters who give liberals apoplectic attacks. Houellebecq ironically first gained fame in the early '90s because of Generation-X leftists believing that he was actually writing brilliant ironic satires of the alt-right, warmly embraced by the American artistic community because his portraits of dour misanthropes seemed so spot-on; but after 25 years now of proving that he hasn't been writing parodies but rather straight-up aspirational fantasies about these misanthropes (and in hundreds of tense interviews has proven to be pretty misanthropic himself), the American left now has no idea how to react to him, so most typically just dismiss his work out-of-hand anymore as "worthless fascist trash," even as he's proven with each subsequent book to be more and more a prophetic soothsayer of his times, way more than most of the writers embraced by the left. (For one eerie example, his 2015 speculative-fiction novel Submission, in which a Muslim is elected the President of France and Christian liberals start voluntarily converting to Islam in the millions simply for petty political gain, just happened to be released on the exact day that Muslim extremists violently attacked the comics journal Charlie Hebdo for printing a cartoon making fun of their religion.) And so too is it with his newest novel, Serotonin, which has been out in his native France for almost a year now, but with the English version just recently being released. You can think of it as being about two main subjects, the minor one being the rural agricultural issues that have led to the recent "yellow vest" protests that have polarized and often shut down France in the last year. Told through the usual Houellebecqian filter of a meek civil servant who barely hides a seething contempt for his co-workers, our protagonist in this case is a scientific consultant for the Ministry of Agriculture, with much of this book being a look at the way that the central EU government in Brussels is essentially destroying France's (and the rest of Western Europe's) farming industries, because of such factors as technocrat billionaires prioritizing the financial bottom line over all other considerations; ignorant middle-classers religiously worshipping "organic" produce versus "genetically modified" food, despite having no idea what the two terms actually mean from a scientific standpoint; globalists making the glorification of "developing nations" a more important thing than protecting their own local markets; the agencies in charge of these regulations being filled with do-nothing halfwits, France's freefalling educational system failing at teaching them enough to make informed decisions; and much more. With Houellebecq himself having actually been an agricultural scientist and IT administrator before ever starting to write professionally, most of his books at least touch on the subject of the dangers of the mouthbreathing masses making policy decisions about highly technical subjects they don't understand in any way whatsoever; but here in 2019, the general culture has finally caught up with him, making his exasperated rants about egg tariffs and cheese quotas something now for the evening news and front-page headlines. But it's his second and more major subject in this book that will actually be of interest to a greater amount of readers; and that's his look at all the negative things that come with aging, and specifically how the late middle-aged years (being defined here as mid-forties through early sixties) are a particularly depressing time for one and all, in that it finally reveals our lives as the empty shams they've been all along, which before now was easily hidden by the ambition, optimism, good looks and sexual prowess of youth. This is the existential crisis that our "effeminately named" (his words) narrator Florent-Claude is facing as Serotonin opens; recently turning 46, he's realized that he can't stand the woman he's currently dating, has nothing but contempt for his co-workers, neighbors and acquaintances, and has contributed so little to human society that he might as well not even exist. So that's exactly what he does -- learning that it's perfectly legal in France to "abandon your identity" and live off the grid, he essentially ditches his entire former life with no notice, living in a series of hotels (only ones that allow smoking, of course) and basically getting through his days due only to the overwhelming success of a brand-new type of antidepressant medication (which is where this novel's title comes from). As his existential crisis grows, now within the emotional solitude of anonymous crowds, Florent-Claude starts nostalgically looking back on the successful romantic relationships of his youth, wondering what magical factors existed in them that he's now somehow seemed to forgotten; but as he makes a series of road trips to revisit these old flames (the journeys that drive most of this minimalist plot), he comes to realize that they too have become insufferable, boring, defeated, bloated body-horror victims in late middle-age too, just like himself, and that the "love" they shared in their twenties was basically an optical illusion that was perpetuated by the optimism of youth and a healthy heap of horniness. This will of course inevitably inspire the same accusations of misogyny against Houellebecq that the usual suspects always level at him with each new book, but to call Houellebecq a woman-hater is to utterly miss the point of why his novels are so fascinating; it's not that he hates women, it's that he hates everybody, with Florent-Claude in typical Houellebecqian fashion dishing up equal-opportunity piss and vinegar for every race, creed, class, gender and sexual orientation on this big wide planet of ours, often in ways so cartoonishly over-the-top that you can't help but occasionally darkly chuckle at the sheer outrageousness on display. A Houellebecq novel is not an easy thing to get through, that's for sure, and to do so you have to believe in your own optimism about the human race enough that you can lightly tread on top of the peaks of hatred he builds here, instead of falling into the valleys in between, where you too run the risk of becoming a bitter sociopath just like his characters. Thankfully the vast majority of the human race is not like his characters, which is the exact reason to read his books, to glimpse and better understand the tiny part of humanity that is; and in a world where I can read and enjoy Roxane Gay and Naomi Klein while agreeing little with anything they have to say, so too can I read Houllebecq and Jordan Peterson and Jack Donovan in the same spirit, not as political declarations but rather to satisfy my insatiable curiosity about the entire world and all its light and dark corners, just like should be the goal of all informed and curious human beings. Houellebecq is not "worthless" as an author simply because you disagree with his opinions; indeed, this might be the best reason of all to read him, precisely to better understand a section of humanity you rarely interact with otherwise. It's in this spirit that I recommend this book, not Houellebecq's best (that would be The Possibility of an Island, so far the only straight-ahead science-fiction novel of his career), but certainly an uncanny product of its times, a book that explains better than most exactly why Trump is currently the leader of the free world, no matter what you personally think of that fact. Michel Houellebecq books now read: Whatever | Submission | HP Lovecraft: Against the World, Against Life | The Possibility of an Island

At this point, Michel Houellebecq is very good at writing the same well-worn story that he first helped popularize. That story can be efficiently summed up as: (Decline of the West) + (Death from Despair) = European Man. This book like all of his others is festooned with the provocations familiar to his writing. They have by now lost the capacity to shock and are genuinely humorous; even charming in a way. They've become like stock features of his work that one is already well prepared for him to toss around for no real reason. I really did laugh at several points during Serotonin, which by all accounts is one of his darkest books. Depending on your mood you'll either identify with the crippling misanthropy of the main character (though one would hope not to the same extent) or otherwise find it morbidly fascinating and amusing. There is no hope and no turning back. The modern world, such as it is, has backed its most successful and loyal products into a corner from which there is no escape. The obviously false promise of limitless freedom and possibility in this life has left a trail of shattered souls and bodies in its wake. Now it's either suicide, or a rough equivalent of that, which in his last book he depicts as civilizational surrender through conversion to Islam (lol!). As Houellebecq writes, people are the engineers of their own unhappiness. In most cases there is nothing anyone can do to fix things or to save them from their ineluctable fate. The advice such people may seek is really just the seeking of tragic chorus to confirm to them their terrible destiny. All that's left to do now is eat – the main character of this book is obsessed with food as a substitute for his former obsession with libido – while waiting for the clock to expire. This is life in the spiritual desert. It's easy to hate Houellebecq, but its better to just appreciate him on his own terms. He's being honest about what many people, including him it seems, seem to feel. His work gives an intimate explanation for the exploding rates of suicide and antidepressant usage in the materially-rich countries of the world. This book with its well-worn themes might be one flog of that horse too many, though. I probably don't need to keep reading what is effectively the same story by him again and again. Nonetheless, I probably will. Just to see how he's keeping up.

A slow-burning suicidal internal monologue of a middle-aged European man along with occasional genitalia talk and paranoia over the decay of western civilization where nothing happens (if you're expecting) but still a good read considering that depression seethes off the pages.

(4.5) The first Mariana Enríquez collection to be translated into English, Things We Lost in the Fire, is one of those books that left a real mark on me. I’m always looking for subtle, weird, dark, allegorical horror stories to match up to Enríquez’s best. So you can imagine how delighted I was to discover another of her collections is being translated. I had to read it as soon as possible. While The Dangers of Smoking in Bed is new in translation, it’s actually an earlier collection than Things We Lost in the Fire, first published in Spanish in 2009. So it’s perhaps unsurprising that it has less of a connecting theme than the later book. It does, however, have a potent, oppressive mood. This is a book queasily obsessed with death and sex and ghosts, both morbid and lustful. The dead are always crawling up from beneath the dirty streets, refusing to stay buried. Pleasure is achieved by way of self-harm or a sadistic fetish. Enríquez’s fiction may be unwholesome, but it is startlingly effective. By far my favourite from this collection was the longest story, ‘Kids Who Come Back’, which has so much detail and development it almost qualifies as a novella in its own right. I also loved ‘Meat’, ‘Rambla Triste’, ‘Our Lady of the Quarry’ and ‘No Birthdays or Baptisms’. --- ‘Angelita Unearthed’: The protagonist is persistently haunted by the ghost of a baby – her would-have-been great-aunt, Angelita. But the tone is more pitch-black buddy comedy than creepy ghost story. It’s short, weird, and darkly funny. Clearly, carrying a dead baby around everywhere I went had affected my mind. ‘Our Lady of the Quarry’: A chorus of girls look on jealously as their most ‘grown-up’ (but, in their opinion, least attractive) friend starts a relationship with their collective crush. I wasn’t sold on this narrative device when it popped up in Things We Lost (in the story ‘The Intoxicated Years’), but here it works perfectly, pulling the reader into the girls’ petty resentments and dreams of revenge. A week after Diego drank Natalia’s blood, Silvia herself told us they were dating, it was official. ‘The Cart’: Shortly after chasing away an elderly alcoholic with a cart of junk, the residents of a working-class community suffer a spate of bad luck, and come to believe they have been cursed. This story doesn’t seem to fit with the others, but I can’t really pinpoint why. It’s typically dark but doesn’t bear any of the author’s hallmarks. We were scared, but fear doesn’t look the same as desperation. ‘The Well’: As a child, Josefina accompanies her mother and sister on a visit to a reputed witch. Afterwards, she becomes afflicted with fear, and is so terrified of everything that she struggles to live a normal life. The tragedy of Josefina’s existence – and the cause of this misery – is powerfully depicted. She never slept with a leg uncovered, because she just knew she would feel a cold hand touching it. ‘Rambla Triste’: If this wasn’t specifically about Barcelona, it would fit perfectly alongside the stories in Sam Thompson’s Communion Town. Alongside the narrator – an Argentinian woman visiting friends – we experience the city as a labyrinthine place with multiple personalities, teeming with strange figures who could be prophets, gods, or nobodies. ‘Rambla Triste’ is rich and intoxicating. I was transfixed by the plot (it tightens its grip on you steadily as it progresses) and loved the ending. ‘Sometimes I think the crazies aren’t people, they’re not real. They’re incarnations of the city’s madness, like escape valves.’ ‘The Lookout Tower’: This is another taste of something different, and like ‘The Cart’ it gives me the feeling that, circa this book, Enríquez was experimenting with her style. In a seafront hotel, a ghost searches for a willing host, and finds her perfect match in a woman who is planning her suicide. Despite this premise, it is rather romantic in its own deeply melancholic way. How lovely to die like that, suddenly and without planning, in such a simple way. ‘Where Are You, Dear Heart?’: The narrator realises while still a child that she has a predilection for sickly people. As an adult, this morphs into a full-blown fetish, and an irregular heartbeat is the only thing that can excite her sexually. Enríquez has a real knack for making the reader squirm, and it’s on full display here; some passages made me so squeamish I had to skip over them. The last line is chilling as hell. We both knew how it could end, and we didn’t care. ‘Meat’: This reminded me a little of Julia Armfield’s ‘Stop your women’s ears with wax’ – with an even more macabre twist. Julieta and Mariela are devoted followers of a rock star, Santiago Espina, especially his controversial second album Meat. And they take their fandom to alarming extremes. The details make this somehow horribly plausible. They looked into the cameras with smiles that were later described as ‘terrifying’ and ‘cryptic’. ‘No Birthdays or Baptisms’: The narrator is friends with a guy called Nico who places a newspaper ad volunteering himself for ‘weird film projects’. Inevitably he ends up shooting a lot of homemade porn, but then a really strange request comes: a woman wants Nico to film her mentally ill daughter, Marcela, in the midst of a breakdown. Theoretically, this will prove to Marcela that her hallucinations are just that. If I hadn’t reread Things We Lost in the Fire right before starting this book, I probably wouldn’t have realised that Marcela is also the protagonist of ‘End of Term’, which depicts her at an earlier point in her life, while she is still attending school. ‘No Birthdays or Baptisms’ fleshes out her story in intriguing, sometimes distressing style. It is also thrillingly ambiguous. Since I lived alone, there was no one around to point out my depression or try to cheer me up. I hadn’t had such a good time in years. ‘Kids Who Come Back’: Mechi’s job is ‘to maintain and update the archive of lost and disappeared children in the city of Buenos Aires’ – a never-ending, unrewarding, and often harrowing task. She becomes a little obsessed with one girl, Vanadis; she is dismayed when a video obtained by her journalist friend Pedro proves Vanadis is dead. Yet days later, Mechi sees Vanadis alive. It seems like an impossibility, but in fact it is just the start of a bizarre phenomenon. ‘Kids Who Come Back’ is by far the longest story in The Dangers of Smoking in Bed; it accounts for more than a quarter of the book. It’s brilliant, and made me madly curious about Enríquez’s novels (like I wasn't already). It encompasses a lot of the themes and motifs found throughout Enríquez’s work: lost or neglected children, abuse, poverty, Argentinian history, and supernatural horror. The detailed and realistic build-up makes the horror all the more striking when it finally arrives. It was the first time Graciela had seen a moribund person walking, a person whose mind didn't register the death of the body. ‘The Dangers of Smoking in Bed’: In complete contrast to the story that precedes it, this is a short scene, just a few pages. The title tells you what it’s about. The specifics are typically grotesque. In her apartment, she was the only one who lived. ‘Back When We Talked to the Dead’: Like ‘Our Lady of the Quarry’, this is narrated by a group of girls. Like many of the stories in Things We Lost, it ties the experience of its characters to the history of their country. The friends use a Ouija board in an attempt to contact their dead relatives, and (as fictional characters who use Ouija boards always do) they get rather more than they bargained for. Brief but effective; a perfect closing story. Julita’s folks had disappeared. They were disappeared. They’d been disappeared. We didn’t really know the right way to say it. I received an advance review copy of The Dangers of Smoking in Bed from the publisher through Edelweiss. TinyLetter | Linktree

4.25/5 ⭐ If you like gruesome, creepy and extremely detailed and explicit descriptions that usually are taboo or probably too intimate or disturbing to bring up in a casual conversation, then this collection of unsettling stories is definitely for you! For the ones with a dark sense of humour too, sometimes the more disturbing the funnier it gets but just because the story is just ridiculous in its horror way.

“We were scared, but fear doesn’t look the same as desperation.” 🚬💀🌃 Enriquez combines Buenos Aires' underworld with the occult to produce something genuinely unique and terrifying. Mariana Enriquez's unorthodox and politicized macabre stories, inhabited with disturbed adolescents, deceitful brujas, homeless spirits, and starving women, skirt the precarious edge between urban reality and horror. The stories in her collection are as horrifying as they are socially sensitive, and they drive the unspoken into existence with disturbing immediacy -- fetish, disease, the female body, the desolation of human history. Erotic, repulsive, and surprisingly tender, the cast of rebellious youths, vengeful ghosts, rotting ghouls, and Argentina's sorrowful and furious homeless paint a brutally honest portrait of contemporary Argentina. A spine-chilling collection that should not be missed.

A haunting collection of stories that blend the borders of reality. Vivid and disturbing, each story is a little world in itself, a whisper of darkness and hidden, twisted desired coming slowly to life. Mariana Enriquez is an expert at making clever political and cultural discussions within beguiling tales of the otherworldly; she is the bridge between the two, making such compelling statements that hide in in plain sight. A fantastically chilling book that is as amazing as her other writings.

full post here: http://www.oddlyweirdfiction.com/2021... I had picked up this book this past January, long before it was longlisted (and then shortlisted) for this year's International Booker Prize. There was never a question of not buying it; I had read and loved this author's Things We Lost in the Fire some time ago. That book was excellent, with a slight edge over this one in my opinion; after finishing The Dangers of Smoking in Bed I was not only impressed, but my first reaction to this book echoes exactly what Lauren Groff says about it on its back cover: "After you've lived in Mariana Enriquez's marvelous brain for the time it takes to read The Dangers of Smoking in Bed, the known world feels ratcheted a few degrees off-center." It didn't take until the end of the book for that "off-center" feeling to take hold -- after the first story alone I had to stop, think, and sort of shake my head back into the real world before moving on. In an interview after the publication of Things We Lost in the Fire, the author noted that her stories "are quite rooted in realistic urban and suburban settings and the horror just emanates from these places," and in The Dangers of Smoking in Bed the author examines the darkness and the terrors that co-exist in "these places" side by side with every-day life -- as one character says so eloquently in "Rambla Triste" (one of my favorites in this book), "the incarnations of the city's madness." Most of her characters are women from adolescence upward, their daily concerns are normal, including appearance, sex, relationships, family, drugs, and so on. It isn't too long into any of these stories however before it dawns on you that you've made your way into a situation where normal has taken a bizarre turn. Nothing is out of bounds here -- fetishes, voyeurism and cannibalism included -- but as the dustjacket blurb says, the stories are written with "resounding tenderness toward those in pain, in fear, and in limbo." They also reveal a concern with economic and social inequality as well as Argentina's inescapable past. Two chilling stories in particular (which also happen to be my top two favorites) also highlight the anxieties of the period of the Dictatorship (1976 - 1983): "Kids Who Come Back" and "Back When We Talked to the Dead." I read a lot of supernatural and weird fiction but not a lot of what I'd call horror, but if more writers in the genre did it as intelligently as Mariana Enriquez does here and in her other collection of stories, I could easily go that route as well. With the exception of "Kids Who Come Back," the stories are relatively short which, in my opinion, gives them an incredible measure of power. Whereas some readers have noted that the stories felt underdeveloped, I disagree. I don't need everything explained to me -- each story made an impact as is. Enriquez's work is original, fresh, modern and above all powerful, and while not all of these tales were to my personal taste, overall this is a stunning collection that should not be missed, except perhaps, by the squeamish. While it's incredibly difficult on an emotional level to read, this book is damn good, and one I'll never forget.

This is a very dark, depressing, gritty read. It also might be a challenging one for those unfamiliar with the Glasgow dialect. Shuggie Bain is a story of substance addiction and abuse. Think of a possible content warning and it is probably in this book. Graphic rape. Physical and emotional abuse. And beyond these overt horrors, the narrative itself is just so... bleak. It seems fitting that the cover is in black and white because Stuart makes this world feel so grim and grey with his descriptions. Even the most basic of actions feel ugly. Hugh "Shuggie" Bain is a young boy just trying to get by in Thatcher-era Scotland. This novel - though the author's note makes you wonder how much of it is truly fiction - is about Shuggie's complex feelings towards his mother, Agnes, who is both his hero and a woman who is falling apart. She has been abandoned by Shuggie's father, alone with her kids and her alcoholism, trying to find small pieces of happiness in a life that feels so out of her control. What makes this novel so sad is that you really can feel what it is to love so deeply a person who is failing you so terribly. Shuggie - and Douglas Stuart, I think - loves Agnes. He could be just another story about a neglected kid with an alcoholic parent, but this is nothing so one-dimensional as that. Even at her worst, it is impossible not to feel sympathy for Agnes. To feel her wanting to try, even as she fails. There are demons big and small in this book. The kind that are selfish people who behave unkindly, the kind that are addictions which enslave a person, and the kind that made the Thatcher era such a misery for the Northern working class. I understand this culture too well. I grew up in Yorkshire, and the effect of this time was so great, the horrors so deeply-engraved that many people from working class areas still whisper the name "Thatcher" like a curse. I would not recommend reading this unless you are in a good mental place. It is a horrible, dreary read, there's no doubt, but if you see past the layers of ugliness and allow this to rip your heart out, I also think there's a lot of love to be found in here. Facebook | Instagram

Reminded me of A Little Life. Outstanding, immersive, raw storytelling. Compelling characters.

I know it sounds cliche, but there’s no other way to describe this story as other than gut wrenching. It’s also beautifully written in authentic dialect which gives a feel of authenticity. If that’s not enough to make it feel real, you’ll think so when you read the first sentence of the Acknowledgements at the end. This is a stark look at the impact of family dysfunction and alcoholism and the impact on the children who struggle through it. If this story of a family in Glasgow in the 1980’s doesn’t break your heart, I’m not sure what will. Shuggie is one of those characters you just might love and never forget. He is that for me. I received a copy of this book from Grove Press through Edelweiss.

this is a difficult book to review. i cant really say it was enjoyable to read because its such a depressing and gritty story. it definitely requires the reader to be in the right headspace in order to get through some of the content. ive never personally known anyone who has struggled with alcoholism, but wow. what a horrific disease. what i really got out of this book is just how much effort someone is willing to give for a person they love, even when they are constantly letting you down. thats why i found shuggie and his siblings to be the characters i wanted to read about the most. i really felt for them and their situation. which i why i found myself often skimming parts that talked about the neighbours or what the parents were up to. i found those sections of the book paled in comparison to the children. i just wish a book named after a character had more of that particular character. but its a compelling story, nonetheless, and i can definitely see why it won the booker prize. ↠ 3.5 stars

Winner of the Booker Prize 2020. Reading Shuggie Bain is like lying at the depths of an ocean, watching the seemingly calm surface from the bottom only to know it is ephemeral, that it will be wrecked soon by seismic tremors beneath the floors. It is waiting to be thoroughly destroyed and engulfed. It is to be resigned to the fate awaiting you at the end of this book: a searing heartbreak. I knew it all along, yet I couldn't stop reading. I couldn't take my eyes off of Agnes Bain, who was so vibrant, so full of life and yet disappearing a little with every flip of the page. She does not disappear as a character, no, her presence is all encompassing. It is her essence that keeps escaping our grasp, until like Shuggie, we are only holding onto a reflection of her black curls, hairspray and despair. Shuggie Bain, the character as well as the eponymous book, demand your emotions and unwavering loyalty even in the face of tragedy. In my mind, I sat beside Shuggie, when he was a sweet little boy hoping his presence was enough to keep his mother from detonating. And I watched him grow up into a young man of seventeen, cleaning up after his mother and still foolishly hoping his mother would make it, that she would survive the utter chaos enveloping her, and it made my heart ache. There was an emptiness in his belly. It was below his stomach; it went deeper than hunger. He sat at her feet and quietly started to talk to her. “I love you, Mammy. I’m sorry I couldn’t help you last night. I might need to eat an entire rainbow to even marginally recover from the devastation that is this book. It is one thing to read a book unaware of what it will develop into, but it's a complete emotional whiplash to read a book that's about 430 pages long and know within the first twenty pages that it only has dark alleys and endless tunnels. A book instilled with such emotional devastation needs a suitable counterweight either in the form of a total commitment to honest morbidity or enthralling characters that one can't help but not abandon, and in Shuggie Bain's case, we see both. A part of me will always remain in the shabby little house in the miner's district, watching Shuggie dance and Agnes clap along.

Shuggie Bain is a remarkable debut. In fact, to criticize it at all would be to say it was too tightly woven, and that there wasn’t enough breathing room for the protagonist to fully self-actualize. This didn’t do the story a disservice, however: I could imagine Shuggie, tightly wound and a little suffocated by all that was his mother. And Shuggie Bain/Douglas Stuart paints those around him with such attunement that I could almost smell them. The star of this story is Agnes Bain, a spirited woman who takes care to appear and behave with taste, until she gets too much drink in her. Shuggie Bain is the protagonist, he’s the one who changes, but Shuggie seems to lose sight of himself when focusing his sharp perceptions onto others, and much of what we get about him is from what others say. And of all the characters, Agnes is by far the most vivid, complex and alluring. Stuart really captures the neighborhood culture of Scotland 1982-1992, the class structure, and the protestant/catholic divide. He also conveys a lot about the sibling dynamics, and how each of them deals with the power and the storm that is their mom. For Agnes is the storm, and she is the water on which her children – especially, Shuggie – navigate. I’ve read reviews of other books that laid claim to painting the best portrait of being raised by an alcoholic parent. I think this one did it best for me. The writing felt true and intimate, the dynamics detailed and complex. The only deep disappointment I had was that the climactic moment came straight out of AMC’s Breaking Bad. If you didn’t watch that show, I imagine that this moment for you in Shuggie Bain will be shocking and satisfying.

“Don’t make the same mistake as me. She’s never going to get better. When the time is right you have to leave. The only thing you can save is yourself.“ Heart wrenching as fuck. But compulsively readable and ultimately hopeful. Shuggie loves his mum. Despite her faults and her tendency to go on benders, she is the only mum he has ever known. This story follows Agnes Bain and her relationship with her three children, most prominently, Shuggie. Be warned, this is a severely heavy and dark book. Everything from rape to attempted suicide, so do be careful if you aren’t in a good place emotionally. We watch the family move from living with Agnes’ parents, to a housing project far out on the edges of Glasgow. It is clear how the financial climate at the time deeply affected the working class, and how they so often struggled to cope. Agnes’ severe alcohol addiction is at the forefront. How she constantly battles, and sometimes succeeds only to fall down the slope again. It was heartbreaking to see. A powerful and hard hitting read.

I really didn't want to read this. The black and white cover and the story of a Glasgow boy growing up gay with his alcoholic mother. Literary misery porn parading gay suffering. When it wins the Booker it only confirms my suspicions about how inevitably bleak and dire the story would surely be. And then I'm tasked to review it for the Booktube Prize so I begrudgingly pick it up. I'm immediately hooked. Shuggie is growing up in council housing surrounded by unemployed miners, dirty faced kids, drunken gossips and folks prying open electric meters to steal the coins within. Meanwhile Shuggie's mom is drinking herself into a stupor, screaming into the telephone, raging against the men she's hard done by, putting her head into the oven, setting the bedroom on fire, and driving away her two eldest children. Agnes is just a huge character on the page. Despite her faults Shuggie remains steadfast, can see the effort she puts into appearances, her fierce unbroken pride that stands with her back straight even as she's sinking in the grey. It's less gay trauma and more the resilience of love even in the face of a challenging person, clear eyed about their flaws and faults and loving them just the same. It's heartbreaking but comes from a place not intent on mining Agnes or Shuggie's misery in some showy literary way but instead a confident portrayal - warts and all - of a complicated woman. Pure gallus.

I was apprehensive to read this. I've developed this unreasonable dislike for books that focus too much/solely on human misery, poverty, disenfranchisement, addiction etc - what I call misery/trauma porn. I'm a keen photographer, but you won't see me taking photos of homeless people. I love to travel, but I avoid poverty tourism. The description and reviews of this novel made me think that this will be another novel trying to wring out our middle-class hearts. To a certain extent, it did, but I didn't feel manipulated or like I was a misery tourist. Stuart's writing style and its unsentimentality managed to pull me in and kept me turning the pages. I loved that it said a lot without being preachy, dogmatic and it felt very realistic like the author had lived in those neighbourhoods and had intimate knowledge of addiction and poverty. I'm even more impressed with Stuart's novel, with his restraint, especially since it was a debut novel. There was no show-off(y) writing (truthfully, I look for it and expect it in Booker prize shortlisted novels), but that only made this novel more compelling. I'm glad I put my reluctance aside and read this hefty novel. I don't plan to read any other Booker short-listed novels, unless it's the winner. I know many are hoping this will win. Without reading the others, I won't be disappointed if it does.

Booker Prize winner - worthily so if not really for me An impressive debut, albeit rather too long and, at times, repetitive, for my personal taste. The narrative voice interested me. I felt at times I wasn't reading a story as it happened, but rather the grown-up Shuggie's retelling of the story (e.g. the at times hagiographic portrayal of the mother beneath the alcoholic) - and actually given this draws on Stuart's own background, in a literal sense we are. The black humour of the Pitside community was perhaps the book's highlight at a page level, but thematically I wanted to know more of the story of Shuggie himself (or someone like him), post his mother's death - the first chapter felt like a teaser for another novel, and I very much look forward to Loch Awe. 4.5 stars

Isn’t it funny how the same book can hit you in different ways at different points in your life? Personally, that was certainly the case for this book… I bought, and began reading, this book when it was released (approximately 5 years ago). However, I found it dark, depressing and sad, quickly marking it as DNF, and moved on to happier, more uplifting stories. Over the years, I have seen endless fantastic reviews and have always wondered what would have happened if I kept reading. So, without further ado, this is me humbly (with no expectations) giving this book another go… While this still remains a heartbreaking story, full of poverty and addiction, I can now see the importance for fictional work like this. It brings the desperate reality of a struggling working-class family into light. It uncovers the painful truths behind the notorious drugs epidemic. And, still it shows the unconditional love between a mother and son. Shuggie Bain is a story of a young boy and his relationship with his alcoholic mother, Agnes. This book represents a vivid portrayal of working-class Glasgow in the 1980's. The 2 major themes at play are addiction and poverty, and furthermore, how they often intertwine. It is dark, brutal, but also wonderfully brilliant. While Shuggie’s half brother and sister are also an important part of the picture, the mother-son bond is what truly stands out. He cares deeply for his mother from a very young age, and is forced to grow beyond his years. Agnes: “What kind of man are you going to be when you grow up?” Shuggie: “What do you want me to be?” Agnes ”Peaceful… less worried-looking” Shuggie “I dunno. I just want to be with you. I want to take you away somewhere we can be brand-new.” 🥹🥲💖✨ Shuggie not only manages Agnes' situation but he's also negotiating his own troubles, including bullying from the other boys at the rough inner city schools. This proves to be particularly difficult as he possesses some of the 'softer' male attributes. I can’t imagine how difficult a time he must have had during these years. The pain seems unbearable. ‘Shuggie felt something was wrong. Something inside him felt put together incorrectly. It was like they could all see it, but he was the only one who could not say what it was. It was just different, and so it was just wrong.’ This book was absolutely heartbreaking. It is painful. It is harsh. It was utterly captivating and soaks right into your soul. It is a gripping novel that creates a desperate hope and longing for a boy and his mother to free themselves from the poverty-alcoholism trap. Most of all, it showed the unconditional devotion of a young boy towards his damaged mother. ‘He had lied to Agnes as she had lied to him about stopping the drink. She would never be able to get sober, and he, sat in the cold with a lovely girl, knew he would never feel quite like a normal boy.’ 🥺 4 🌟🌟🌟🌟

what a book! i read this while i was sick in bed which perhaps wasn’t the best idea, as this is a very bleak novel and i was already feeling sorry for myself, but here we are. so immersive, compelling, and devastatingly realistic. in a strange way, it reminded me a lot of the jacqueline wilson books i read as a child. full thoughts will be in my monthly reading wrap up on substack.

Chasing the dream of gold, hoping it will bring a comfortable life, Chinese immigrants take their two American born children from place to place out west. As the dream fades with no gold to prospect, the father resorts to working in a coal mine where the pay is low and the temptations run high. This is such an impressive debut, with writing that takes the reader to this desolate, dry, dreary west. It’s dark and a little gruesome in places and I wasn’t quite expecting this to be as sad as it was. I do, however, enjoy reading from the perspective of a young child and I connected with Lucy and Sam, these two young siblings, felt for them as they endure hardships, hunger, family dysfunction, racism. It’s beautifully written, and it provides an such an eye opening view of the Chinese immigrant experience in the West and in that time, that I felt immersed in, but knew very little about. The story moves from their present day, perhaps around the 1860’s, to the past where the back story of their parents is depicted, then to a future time 5 years after the beginning. Lucy’s and Sam’s journeys, together and apart reflect on identity, family, “what makes a home a home”, memories. I finished the book feeling that there was so much left unsaid, feeling that the ending was somewhat open ended. Who knows - maybe a sequel, which I’d love because I’d like to find out where Lucy and Sam’s futures take them. I read this with Diane and Esil and truly appreciated connecting with them. It helped me focus a little more on reading than I have been able to . Thanks, book buddies and friends. I received an advanced copy of this book from Penguin/Riverhead through Edelweiss.

HAPPY PRIDE MONTH!! fulfilling book riot's 2020 read harder challenge task #7: Read a historical fiction novel not set in WWII here is the blurb i wrote about this book for indie next, for those of you who like succinct praise and/or capital letters: A powerful historical debut about two orphaned siblings coming of age during America's Gold Rush. Born to parents who left China for better prospects (heh), the pair forge their individual identities—one craving adventure, the other stability, as they navigate a land hostile to otherness on their search for a place to call home. now that that’s out of the way, lemme loosen my belt a little bit. this book is excellent. for me, it’s all about the characters; not only siblings sam and lucy, but also their parents, whose own stories emerge as the novel wends sinuously through the past and present, through lucy and sam’s experiences together and apart, through the mythic and the actual versions of the american dream. a lot of it reads like a cormac mccarthy-style western, with morally conflicted characters and that perfect blend of incongruously lyrical prose and gritty coarseness. there’s plenty of prettily-described ick in this book, much of it centered around the siblings transporting their father’s deliquescing corpse through the desert to give him a proper burial, what’s left of his body shaped by the trunk as a stew is shaped by its pot. however, there’s a deep emotional undercurrent here; a coming-of-age identity narrative wrapped around a family saga about ambition and the immigrant experience, where adolescent characters struggle to carve their unique adult selves out from under the weight of the past with its layers of secrets and lies and memories, its burdens of sacrifice and love and duty. sam and lucy are eleven and twelve years old when they become orphans. having already suffered the loss of their mother, the hardships of poverty, and the physical and emotional abuse of their bitter alcoholic father, they are now forced to make their way through a brutal landscape to find a new place to call home. all they have left in the world is each other, but although they begin their journey together, their paths soon diverge and they are left to reinvent themselves alone in a borrowed country where, as their parents discovered before them, race and gender are obstacles to achieving those promised-land dreams, and sometimes you gotta dig your own way in. this review is coming out badly because my brain doesn’t work anymore, but don’t let my stolid gravy of run-on sentences deter you, the book itself is excellent; raw and lonely and powerful. it’s a beautiful story about a not-so-beautiful family who, like me—hell, like america itself—is deeply flawed but still trying. *********************************** review to come, but look! the ARC's pages are GILDED!! how great is that? come to my blog!

I read this for the second time, 8 months after first reading it. My second reading was following its longlisting for the 2020 Booker Prize (something which as per my original review's ending did not surprise me at all). My views on a second read were similar to my own, although I did appreciate more the clear environmental message in the book this time around. --------------------------------------------------------------------- Because this land they live in is a land of missing things. A land stripped of its gold, its rivers, its buffalo, its Indians, its tigers, its jackals, its birds and its green and its living. To move through this land and believe Ba’s tales is to see each hill as a burial mound with its own crown of bones. Who could believe that and survive? Who could believe that and keep from looking, as Ba and Sam do, always toward the past? And so Lucy fears that unwritten history. Easier to dismiss all Ba’s tales as tall ones—because believe, and where does it end? If she believes that tigers live, then does she believe that Indians are hunted and dying? If she believes in fish the size of men, does she believe in men who string up others like linefuls of catch? Easier to avoid that history, unwritten as it is except in the soughing of dry grass, in the marks of lost trails, in the rumors from the mouths of bored men and mean girls, in the cracked patterns of buffalo bone. Easier by far to read the history that Teacher Leigh teaches, those names and dates orderly as bricks, stacked to build a civilization. Still. Lucy never quite escapes that other. The wild one. It prowls the edges of her vision, an animal just beyond the campfire’s glow. That history speaks not in words but in roar and beat and blood. That history made Lucy as the lake made gold. Made Sam’s wildness, and Ba’s limp, and made the yearning in Ma’s voice when she speaks of the ocean. But to stare down that history makes Lucy dizzy, as if she peers from the wrong end of a spyglass to see Ba and Ma smaller than her, Ba and Ma with bas and mas of their own, across an ocean bigger than the vanished lake. The genesis of this novel was in a short story (available here and which serves as a great introduction to the two key characters in the novel, its themes and its writing style: https://longreads.com/2017/08/03/and-...) which now forms the opening of the novel. Two just-orphaned Chinese-descent siblings, 12-year old Lucy (the third party narrator) and her 11-year old sister Sam (who dresses and largely identifies as a boy), head out into post Gold-rush ’62 California wilderness with a horse they stole from Lucy’s old schoolteacher and the body of their gold-prospector-turned-coal-miner-turned-secret-prospector father. The book is told in four sections: the first in ’62 tells of Lucy and Sam’s escape and Sam’s quest both for a burial place for their father and a hidden wilderness where he believes that giant buffalo and even tigers still roam. The second goes back to ’59 and tells of the events that lead to their escape: their mother having been buried in an unmarked grave by her father after the premature still-birth of their younger brother in a storm, shortly after a small fortune that the family had accumulated (so as to buy a passage back to China) had been taken from them, an event which lead to their father’s descent into despondency, alcoholism and domestic violence. Both sections are recounted in an evocative and descriptive prose, shot through with description of the still basic Wild American West (each section featuring chapters named Gold, Plum, Salt, Skull, Wind, Mud, Meat, Water or Blood and where each chapter’s title captures a crucial and elemental part of the essence of the life described in it), with Lucy’s memory of the Chinese folklore, snatches of language and Zodiacal 12-hour system (again that system often informing the events of the chapter). The motif a Tiger – precious to their mother – reoccurs frequently. The third section is a departure – a single-chapter posthumous account by their father of his and their mother’s backstory, an account which as it proceeds appears not so much as having been discovered and read posthumously as written posthumously and unread/undiscovered by Lucy. The fourth it set 5 years after the first (and returns to the chapter structure of the first two) – the now 17-year old Lucy living in a town, having been befriended by a Gold-mine heiress has her immersion into some form of domesticity thrown up in the air by the return of Sam after five years of gambling, prospecting, possibly stealing and adventure. Sam’s arrival is preceded by a rumoured Tiger hunting on the outskirts of the town – something which is not coincidental. Sam and Lucy then head for the Coast and passage to China as their past threatens to catch up on them. The American-West described in the tale has some seeming anomalies – not least the Tiger and Buffalo – and possesses something of a mythical nature. This is very deliberate; the author has said of the realisation that crucially inspired the writing of the book: Generations of authors have molded the mythology of the American West for their own purposes. I grew up on John Steinbeck’s East of Eden, Laura Ingalls Wilder’s Little House, Larry McMurtry’s Lonesome Dove. Awed, I believed the settings of those books to be gritty, factual, real. As an adult I’ve learned how much of the West in those stories is fiction or exaggeration – including their overwhelming whiteness. I don’t appreciate those books any less. Rather, I take from them the lesson that I, too, have the freedom and audacity to invent the lesson that we call history is not granite but sandstone – soft, given form by its carvers. And hasn’t that always been the way of the American West, epic and beautiful, conflicted and stolen, paradoxical and maddening, which has so captured the imagination that it is difficult to disentangle the myths from reality? In particular, her own myth-remolding serves as a way to examine two key aspects: the meaning of truth and history and who gets to tell it and the timeless pressures of the immigrant experience – particularly the second or third generational immigrant, caught between two lands. Both are captured in the passage which opens my review. Lucy over time realises the power of paper – and of who is writing the story. As a child she is temporarily taken under the wing of a school teacher who has travelled from the East Coast on a self-motivated charitable enterprise to teach the miner’s children (and to document his results) and sees Lucy as a special project The teacher smiles. “He who writes the past writes the future too.’ Do you know who said that?” He bows. “I did. I’m a historian myself, and may require your assistance in my newest monograph. When later, following Sam retaliating to some racist bullying, they are summarily expelled by him: “You may go,” the teacher says at last. “All the work we’ve done is useless now.” His voice is bitter. “You understand I’ll be removing you from the history—there’s no value in a half-finished chapter. Later in the town, the framed deeds to the Gold holdings of her friends father, stand in stark contrast to her father’s undocumented Gold discoveries and their different fates (her father dying in poverty, robbed of what he had, her friend’s father wealthy and powerful from what he has legally taken from others) act as a constant reminder of the power of paper and writing to control legitimacy In terms of the immigrant experience: Lucy herself is caught by conflicting pressures and yearnings. Her own conservative inclination is towards civilisation, safety, anonymity and she is most intrigued by the tales she hears from her short-term schoolteacher of the American East: But Lucy liked to hear about the next territory, and the next one, even farther East. Those flat plains where water is abundant and green stretches in every direction. Where towns have shade trees and paved roads, houses of wood and glass. Where instead of wet and dry there are seasons with names like song: autumn, winter, summer, spring. Where stores carry cloth in every color, candy in every shape. Civilization holds the word civil in its heart and so Lucy imagines kids who dress nice and speak nicer, storekeepers who smile, doors held open instead of slammed, and everything—handkerchiefs, floors, words—clean. A place unimaginable in these dry, unchanging hills. A place where two girls might be wholly unremarkable. In Lucy’s fondest dream, the one she doesn’t want to wake from, she braves no dragons and tigers. Finds no gold. She sees wonders from a distance, her face unnoticed in the crowd. When she walks down the long street that leads her home, no one pays her any mind at all. Repeatedly even in the melting-pot of the West she is made aware of her foreigness and lack of belonging (of course by those who have only just stolen the land from the Indians and the buffalo) – her appearance always marking her out, causing people to question her origins and making it clear: This land is not your land. Her thoughts are further confused by the different identities (and even tricks to remember them) that are drummed into her from a young age by her father (keen to make it clear that the land belongs to her and she to it) and her mother (keen to remind her of her family base) Ba taught this trick when Lucy was three or four. Playing, she’d lost sight of the wagon. The enormous lid of sky pinned her down. The grass’s ceaseless billow. She wasn’t like Sam, bold from birth, always wandering. She cried. When Ba found her hours later, he shook her. Then he told her to look up. Stand long enough under open sky in these parts, and a curious thing happens. At first the clouds meander, aimless. Then they start to turn, swirling toward you at their center. Stand long enough and it isn’t the hills that shrink—it’s you that grows. Like you could step over and reach the distant blue mountains, if you so chose. Like you were a giant and all this your land. You get lost again, you remember you belong to this place as much as anybody, Ba said. Don’t be afeared of it. Ting wo? Ting le? Ma asked, holding her hands over Lucy’s ears. Silence for that first moment. Then the throb and whoosh of Lucy’s own blood. It’s inside you. Where you come from. The sound of the ocean. A tension captured in: There’s no one like us here, Ma said sadly and Ba proudly. We come from across the ocean, she said. We’re the very first, he said. Special, he said. Overall an entertaining story, one which I can see featuring on prize lists this year. My thanks to Little Brown for an ARC via NetGalley

A high 4 stars! What a beautifully written and original story! This novel takes place in the mid 19th century at the end of the gold rush in the United States. The story is told primarily from the point of view of Lucy, a young Chinese American girl who's parents hoped to find fortune during the gold rush. At the beginning of the novel, Lucy and her sibling Sam are left alone after both parents have died and they must figure out how to survive. From there, the story goes back and then forward in time, showing us how Lucy and Sam came to be where they are and where they end up. C Pam Zhang writes beautifully. Much is left unsaid, and we are left to understand the story through Lucy's impressions. The story has a very bleak feel and Zhang does not romanticize or sugar coat any of her characters and their actions. But this makes for a story with complex characters and a different perspective on a familiar time in American history. I don't like historical fiction that romanticizes history. This is my kind of historical fiction. I had the pleasure of reading this one with my readings buddies, Diane and Angela. During these challenging times, connections with friends are especially important. Thanks also to Edelweiss and the publisher for giving me access to an advance copy.

Longlisted for the 2020 Booker Prize. The novel opens with a death. Sam and Lucy’s father, Ba, dies in the night. Their Ma is long gone and now it is just the two of them. Eleven and twelve years of age. The siblings do not even have the two silver dollars needed to cover their father’s eyes as is custom. Now both their parents are dead, and they are alone in a world that at best dislikes and barely tolerates their kind. The reader is left in the dark as to how these two siblings have got into this situation and their family’s history. When the teller at the bank refuses to loan them two silver dollars, Sam produces her father’s gun and fires. Luckily, it is a misfire, but their fate is sealed the moment she pulled the trigger. If they were white, they might, just might, be able to explain what had happened, but being Chinese, not a gold-flakes chance in Hell. They must leave as quickly as possible, and their adventure begins. The narrative is primarily about Sam and Lucy’s struggle to survive but it is also about so much more. Zhang continually draws the attention of the reader to the railway that is being built. It takes on an almost mythical beastly presence destroying the land and its fauna and flora as is slowly grows, stretches, and lengthens across the land. Not only the train but the encroachment of civilization. With the insatiable lust for gold in their eyes, the miners never stop for even a second to consider what they are doing to the environment. Ripping up trees, exploding mountains, killing and displacing wildlife and natives all in the name of greed. There is almost a contemporary feel of warning here. A warning of the environmental damage we still dish out on our poor planet while mining for what we consider valuable and necessary. The book is about displacement. The horrible feeling of not belonging, being seen, but not noticed. The feeling of being different to everybody else. Lucy yearns for a home without even knowing what a home is. Racial abuse and exploitation, another theme that is explored by Zhang, with the Chinese miners being shipped over and treated little better than slaves. Working under the illusion and lies that they will make a better life for themselves. Zhang explores sexual identity with Sam, dressing and pretending to be a man. This charade is played to deter sexual predators and to simply make things easier in what was a “mans” world. And yet, in contradiction, Lucy survives with no such deception. The narrative is told in four parts with parts one to three rolling backwards in time. As the narrative rolls backward, the reader learns the history of Lucy and Sam’s parents. Part three is my favourite part, with the shade, ghost, spirit, call it what you will, of the father talking in the first person to Lucy. Seeking forgiveness and explaining how things went wrong, revealing the history of himself and their mother. With the revealing of their history we find that Ba was teaching the Chinese miners, and in particular their mother, words in English. This is symbolized with each chapter having a one-word title that is relevant to the contents of that chapter. A wonderful touch. Part four jumps into the future, and for me is the weakest part of the book. It feels a little rushed with Zhang trying to cram in too much information about the sibling’s history and revealing a major plot point that was never explored in the main narrative. However, this is intentional and meant to surprise the reader. Zhang’s writing is quite beautiful and descriptive, most notably when describing the landscape. The prose is quite exquisite throughout the entire novel and is a highlight. Time for the old cliché, this novel does not feel like a debut at all and thoroughly deserves its place in the Booker longlist. 4.5 Stars.

C Pam Zhang’s stunning debut novel examines the myth of the American West from the vantage point of marginalized Chinese immigrants whose role in the California Gold Rush has rarely been acknowledged. The story begins in 1862 and focuses on two sisters Lucy,12, and Sam,11 (who identifies as male.) The children’s prospector/ miner father, Ba has died and the children whose mother had died earlier must bury him and survive. The book chronicles their struggle in a world defined by racism and poverty and moves back and forth in time providing the backstory of the children’s lives and the lives of their parents. The writing is lyrical and the characters are finely drawn. I came away with a deeper understanding of the Chinese- American experience and a fuller more complex picture of the history of the American West.

Invigoratingly poetic, and telling a fascinating, richly imagined tale of a Chinese-American family struggling to survive during the American Gold Rush, this is a wholly mesmerizing and fascinating novel. I’m grateful to have spent time in its company, although I also found myself longing for a bit more emotional power in its latter third, since so much of its first two-thirds is extremely potent. Still, it’s incredibly impressive that this is a first novel, and C. Pam Zhang is a writer whose future works I will eagerly seek out.

I’ve actually been wanting to read this book since it came out last year, but hadn’t gotten around to it until recently, when one of my book clubs chose it as a monthly read. Going into this one, I will admit that I was a bit wary, as I’m not a fan of westerns (which is what this was billed as), but I was attracted to the premise of a story about a Chinese immigrant family in the American West during the gold rush era, which, of course, is not often seen in mainstream fiction. Now after having finished this, I would say that it was definitely different from what I expected, both in its bold, lyrical writing as well as in the way the story technically defied categorization in terms of genre and theme — there were elements of a western, yes, but there were also historical elements as well as magical realism that drove aspects of the story. Majority of the story is told from the perspective of Lucy, who is twelve when we first meet her. Her Pa has just passed away and with her Ma gone for 3 years already, she and her eleven year old sister Sam are now left to fend for themselves in the mountains of the West. As they set off to bury their Pa, Lucy and Sam encounter situations that test the strength of their bond as siblings, as well as their ability to overcome their family’s past. The narrative later moves further back to the past and explains the backstory to this family, giving us insight into how a Chinese family such as theirs ended up in a community where few others looked like them. Initially lured to the “golden mountains” by the promise of gold and riches, the reality couldn’t be more different — weighted down by a secret in their past as well as the instability of prospecting, they switch to a grueling living by coal mining, which unfortunately does little to improve the family’s situation. A third narrative moves the story 5 years after Pa’s death, with Lucy and Sam reuniting again after having gone their separate ways — both siblings have changed in some ways, but underneath, they are also still the same. They decide to set off again, together this time, in pursuit of a better life in a place they can truly call their own. This was an emotional read and one that was so beautifully written — lyrical, poetic, and so full of imagery. With that said though, as much as I loved the style of writing, I felt like the beauty of it transcended the story a bit — I’m not sure how to explain it, but I felt like, at times, I got so caught up in the depiction of a scene that I actually forgot where I was in the story and had to go back and reread. There was also an abstract quality to the writing that sometimes overshadowed the plot itself. From a historical perspective, as a few other reviewers already pointed out, there were some inaccuracies that those familiar with the time period and the history of the Chinese workers in the U.S. during that time may not be able to overlook, though for me personally, it didn’t bother me too much. In terms of character development — Lucy and Sam were characters I couldn’t help but love, regardless of whatever flaws they may have had. I connected deeply with both characters, to the point that I didn’t want the journey with either one of them to end. Perhaps it is because of my affinity for both of them that I didn’t take to the ending too well (and that’s all I’m going to say about it so as not to give anything away). Overall, this was a worthwhile read that I definitely recommend, one that I’m also glad I finally got around to reading, however belatedly. This was a strong debut from C. Pam Zhang and I definitely look forward to the next work from her.

There are so many themes in this book: identity, belonging, loss, home, loneliness. I’ve always been fascinated by the history of the gold rush, the building of the railways and the use of Chinese immigrants to complete this work. What does it mean to be displaced in a new and cruel land? How do you ever belong? Who can you trust? I am lucky enough to have lived a very settled life, but what happens if you have no roots? If you have no home and are not welcome wherever you go? To leave your history behind, knowing it counts for less than nothing? This book was quite unsettling to me because it raises so many questions, without necessarily providing answers. A very powerful and thought-provoking read. Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.

When I first heard about How Much of These Hills is Gold’s premise, I was excited. It sounded totally original and I HAD to have it. The fact that it was longlisted for this year’s Booker Prize brought those excitement levels up and now having read it, I can safely say that my internal hype was justified. This also means that this will be a positive review. HMOTHIG likes to give the impression that it is a road trip book but then all the themes emerge and punch you in the face. Trust me this is a rich, complex novel dressed simply. The setting is 1860’s U.S. and Lucy and Sam’s father dies and the two children leave their house in order to bury their father. On the way both Lucy and Sam discover that they are two different characters, with only their Asian nationality uniting them and go their separate ways. This section reminded me of the dichotomy between the barren countryside and the hidden violence within it that one finds in Cormac McCarthy’s novels. The next two sections tie up all the loose ends that were in the first part. What happened to Lucy and Sam’s mother? how did an Asian family manage to find themselves in the U.S. during the gold-rush era? What makes Lucy and Sam so different? Needless to say that these sections are the more revelatory. The book concludes with Lucy and Sam meeting each other after 5 years and this time they understand their differences and are united. Like I said – on the surface it’s simple but once one starts picking it apart, there’s a lot to uncover: Gender and race are two big themes. Sam defies the concept (at that time) of the notion of gender and this causes a lot of the conflict between her and Lucy. The fact that they are Asian does not help and are either treated badly by other people or as sexual objects. Then there’s the role of tigers and the notion of home. The tiger throughout the book is symbol of Asia and a representation of Lucy and Sam’s character, which ties in with their constant pondering of what their real home is? as they were born in the States and yet have Asian parents, there is a lot of confusion about their national identity. HMOTHIG is also a unpredictable novel. Zhang fills the narratives with subtle twists which change the narrative in a big way and gives the book an addictive quality. The writing style is economic but is full of intertexual references. So a paragraph may carry a lot of weight. In short this is a satisfying read. HMOTHIG is a strong, swaggering debut which is unconventional and stands out.

How Much of These Hills Is Gold opens up the American Wild West through an Asian-American perspective. Lucy and Sam are siblings left alone with an abusive, alcoholic father following the death of their mother during childbirth. There father, a gold prospecter turned coal miner, is on his last leg when the two sisters are forced to set out on their own in different directions: one into the wilds and the other into society. Both find themselves othered in a land that won't accept them because of their race despite being born to the land itself. C Pam Zhang is a storyteller and uses suspense and plot twists with a unique deftness: How Much of These Hills Is Gold is beautifully told and hard to put down. But the last part of the book seems out of place and underdeveloped compared to the other parts, as though Zhang knew how she wanted the book to end but didn't know how to get there. But the ending itself is beautiful and the story along the way well-done. This is a good book both for its novel perspective (American history through non-white eyes) and its beautiful prose.

3.5 rounded up for credit to an original debut voice. This was at least 3 different reading (listening) experiences for me. I hated the first part of this book intensely, and didn't think I would be able to finish. Then, as we get into Lucy and Sam's childhood story and Ba's backstory, I was enthralled. I was ready to admit to being totally wrong, and declaring the book great. But then the last sections were very disappointing - my reaction wasn't as strong as to the beginning, but definitely a let down after the compelling middle section. One problem (and this has happened to me a few times lately) is that I let my expectations be shaped by a description that turned out to be inaccurate. This book has been called "historical fiction" and as a fan of the genre, I would be so up for a historical novel about early Chinese immigrants in California. But it's not historical fiction - it's fantasy, allegory, myth, fable, which is fine, but I had to recalibrate to fantastical tigers, and mountainous buffalo, and anachronism and improbability. That said, the middle sections of the novel demonstrate Zhang's storytelling skill, and I willingly suspended disbelief (and accepted a heavy use of archetype and stereotype there) because of the power of those stories. Some GR reviewers I like have complained of the poetic repetition, but on audio that worked beautifully. Lucy's family's story is moving and suspenseful, and there are some twists that work perfectly. It's an issue that you have to work through the beginning to get there - it never really becomes clear why Lucy and her brother/sister drag a dead body around for weeks, no more than it becomes clear how a 10 year old girl could have stuffed her dead father in a trunk and loaded it on a horse, or how another girl wouldn't notice the stench. This part of the book is quite frankly boring, and irritating. And the final sections seem like a bit of a cop out - improbable melodrama that depends on outrageous coincidence and seems rather rushed in the closing pages. Zhang has built a fascinating character in Lucy, and the ending seems simplistic and unworthy of that character. So a lot of talent, but very uneven. Zhang has left herself room for several possible sequels, and I would happily read one if she decided to write one.

How Much of These Hills is Gold is an epic of the Wild West but not quite in the traditional sense. Zhang’s story is a compelling one, of hope and adventure, adversity and strength, resilience and compromise set against the harsh and unforgiving landscape. Where this steps apart from conventional westerns, is that it tells the story of two children of Chinese-American immigrants. In this way, this is also a story of belonging and othering; of the lengths we go to to fit in, and the different ways we seek to do so. I found the story compelling on both fronts, beautifully written. Zhang’s central characters are complex, and really illustrate the deep levels of compromise that allow survival in an unforgiving world where the villains are plenty. My main criticism is that at times the pacing fell away, and the final section lacked the immediacy of the first sections. Generally an excellent and compelling read.

hang explores the little known world of Chinese immigrants to California in mid-eighteenth century America, via a backdrop of ochre, sun drenched hills, home to not just the hidden gold which inspired the Gold Rush, but the little gleams of light which formed part of the lives of Lucy, Sam and their parents who, lured in by the mirage of prosperity offered by the American Dream, are instead forced into a life of alienation and degradation, their hopes and dreams ultimately being more pyrite than real gold. Zhang renders the landscape where ‘How Much of These Hills Is Gold’ with a sense of beauty which is impinged with an irrevocable sense of loss, both on a personal basis for Ma, whose identity has been enveloped within the all-consuming world of America, where she has no place outside of being an outlier, a symbol of something exotic and not entirely human, to the steady decline of the wild beauty of the land beneath the encroachments of people and their perpetual search for wealth. There is also something visceral about the degradation the miners live in, as well as the world of mid eighteenth century which Zhang depicts, a world which lays bare the selfishness created by the constant desire to become rich at the expense of all else. This is further compounded for Lucy and her family, as they are forced to experience the racial prejudices of the time. ‘How Much of These Hills Is Gold’ is an illuminating and tragic depiction of the long-forgotten lives of Chinese Americans in Gold Rush America, the luscious hills which Zhang depicts are entwined with a sense of sadness and loss, a sense of pain which becomes suffused into the lives of Lucy’s family.

Ever since experiencing my first Cormac McCarthy novel, I've had this growing fascination with contemporary grit-lit western fiction. When it's done well, oh how my heart swells at the sheer beauty of it. Props to Zhang for (1) the withholding of the progtagonists pronouns and the almost nonchalant way she finally brings them in, teasing the reader with only the behaviors, gently ah-ah-ah'ing us, tsking at how quick we are to make assumptions and (2) that heart wrenching scene in the latter half of the book where ba speaks to Lucy from beyond the grave. Man. Just... oh man. Incredibly well done, even if the going is quite slow to start. With this one, it's all about the journey and less about the destination.

The first half will just (view spoiler) for you. The second half will almost make up for it.* here there be tigers *and just forget about getting anything much done until you've finished reading it.

I didn't think I'd ever find a "Western" that I would actually enjoy. Glad to be proven wrong Watch my full review: https://youtu.be/Wden15VbBgk

I had the pleasure to put some questions to the author on BBC Radio 4 Front Row in October. The recording covers my question on the first line of the novel (at 17:20-19:05). https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m000... Now shortlisted for the 2020 Booker Prize. It is the third part of a trilogy – after the much read and studied (but I must confess new to me) “Nervous Conditions” (considered something of a classic of African literature) and the far more unheralded “The Book of Not”. I read both books before I read this one and I am glad I did: the books function as direct sequels to each other (each taking up where the previous volume left off) and I really don’t think it is possible to appreciate the nuances of this book without having read the first two (see below). My two reviews are here https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... The Book of Not finishes with Tambu having lost her job (quitting after having had her work appropriated by a white, male colleague) and facing the imminent loss of her hostel accommodation (as the Matron makes it clear it is time for her to move on and sets her up for an interview with an old acquaintance). Tambu’s closing words “So this evening I walked emptily to the room I would soon vacate, wondering what the future there was for me, a new Zimbabwean” This book answers that question and the answer, particularly initially, is a bleak one. Very much in contrast to the first 1.75 books (but foreshadowed by the final part of “The Book of Not”) Tambu (the same driven and achieving Tambu that planted her own field of maize as a young child to try and pay her own school fees; and who later won a scholarship to the school’s most prestigious school where she then proceeded to get the best O’Level results) is effectively now both despondent and under-achieving: haunted by her past failures, blaming herself both for her A level performance (which bought her academic aspirations to a crashing halt) and her impulsive decision to quit her job. When you were young and in fighting spirit, growing mealie cobs in the family field and selling them to raise money for your school fees, you were not this person that you have become. When and how did it happen? When you were amongst the brightest, in spite of running kilometres to school and studying beside a sooty candle? No, it couldn’t have been then either. Nor was it in the days that followed at middle school at your uncle’s mission, where you remained focused on a better life and so continued to excel. This leaves only your secondary school, the Young Ladies’ College of the Sacred Heart. It must have been there that your metamorphosis took place. Yet how awful it is to admit that closeness to white people at the convent had ruined your heart, had caused your womb, from which you reproduced yourself before you gave birth to anything else, to shrink between your hip bones. The title of the book is taken from a Teju Cole New Yorker essay “Unmournable Bodies” one prompted by the Western reaction to the Charlie Hebdo killings which (among other things) effectively asked why only certain violent deaths are considered worthy of reaction. The author of this novel has explained: I extrapolated that question to living bodies. Basically I asked the question whether, if we could mourn the circumstance of certain living bodies we might not create a better world. At the same time those living bodies also need to mourn themselves in order to begin to heal and move forward …my observation has been that women often find it difficult to mourn themselves and their circumstances. In Zimbabwe today a lot of women think they are born to put up with all sorts of abuse, beginning in the families they are born into and equally in the families they marry into. It is the idea that society foists on women that suffering is a woman’s lot. …. Such women do not know how to mourn their circumstances. It’s a question of being allowed to grieve for yourself. One has to see oneself as worthy to be able to grieve about the negative things that happen to one. Grieving and mourning are active. You feel and you wade through the feelings. With depression one does not wade through but more or less drowns. Grieving and mourning, because they are active, pull one through, in spite of being terribly difficult. This, I think, is true whether one is grieving or mourning for oneself, or for someone else. I think that many Zimbabweans have not begun to mourn their situation actively yet. They are still denying it so as not to feel the pain. And I think that quote explains much of the nature of this book. We (at least if we have read the first two books) know the real story behind both the A Levels and the advertising agency job – and can see that rather than grieving/mourning Tambu is effectively affected by depression. She does belatedly recognise the impact of racism and colonialism on her life (something her cousin Nyasha – like the second book, a much lesser presence her unfortunately than in the first book albeit with her backstory now even more clearly based on that of the author’s – Germany, filmmaker etc). At the same time a wider past and shame haunts her in different ways: the violent past that lead to her sister losing a leg (in the unforgettable image that started the second book) and her family patriarch Uncle being accidentally paralysed; the role of various of her family members (particularly Aunt Lucia) in the liberation struggle; the poverty of her mother (as well as more unspoken in this book her terrible act of family betrayal). All issues she largely tried to ignore in the second book other than if she felt they threatened her ambitions to succeed in a white school. All of this leads to a breakdown as she violently assaults a pupil in a teaching job she takes – not the first or last piece of behaviour by Tambu in this book which is at the same time harsh and exclusionary to others and self-destructive (another set piece sees her deliberately fail to come to the aid of a fellow hostel member being assaulted by a mob). Tambu we have to conclude is suffering from what Sartre wrote in his introduction to Frantz Fanon’s “Wretched of the Earth” is a “a nervous condition introduced and maintained by the settler among the colonized people with their consent.” – the quote which gave the title to the first book (in the second book we see her consenting to this process). The real narrative in the book only really starts when Tambu meets up with Tracey – her boss in her second job but also of course the person who inadvertently changes the course of Tambu’s life when she takes the honours for which Tambu has strived for such a period of time and on which she had based her entire future – and this leads to a series of scenes of an authentic holiday company which (slightly out of kilter with much of the book) verge on the satirical. Another notable feature of the book is how it is written in the second person. But this is very much second person narration used as a different and more distanced way of conveying a first person viewpoint (the author has said “Often when we talk we use “you” when we mean “I”. So that was the sense in which I used it.”) The author attributes the second person to her not being able to face what Tambu was going through via the first person and feeling that readers (presumably those who had followed her through the first two books) would feel the same. I wrote it in the second person because that was the only way I could access the subject matter in a way that I felt made sense. I just didn’t have the heart to use the first person. I needed distance and I imagined the reader would to. On the other hand, I didn’t want to jump into the third person when the other two books were in the first. I also thought that might be too much distance. So I tried it out in the second and I liked the effect. At the same time it means we have less of a distance to Tambu than in the first two books – as we sit alongside her observing her life and behaviour. You drop your gaze but do not walk off because on the one hand you are hemmed in by the crowd. On the other, if you return to solitude, you will fall back inside yourself where there is no place to hide. Further, when the second book keep circling around the Shona concept of Unhu and particularly the greeting (which more signifies an entire worldview) “Tiripo, kana makadini wo!” (“I am well, if you are well too.”) and Tambu's difficulty in seeing how the concept applies in the new world she is entering: then the move from an "I" to a "you" narration takes on an added significance. What happens when someone cannot even care for their own wellness – when the “you” is the “I”. At her lowest moment in the second book Tambu says the following (which seemed to me to foreshadow the change of person). Truly I could not imagine that I should have looked around me I another way, and analysed what was taking place from my own perspective. For do that one requires a point of view, but it is hard to stand upon the foundations you re born with in order to look forward, when that support is bombarded by all that is around until what remains firm and upright is hidden beneath rubble and ruins. The interaction of this book with the first two books is interesting. It is not as though the book does not fill in the backstory – almost all major developments in the first two book are set out here in outlines (probably more so than I would expect from the third part of a trilogy). But also surprised how misleading an impression that the "outlines" give (and I think evidenced by some comments I have seen on the third book from reviewers who have not read the first two). Tambu in the third book in particular is an unreliable narrator - particularly when describing her own life via the more distanced second person voice – all of course part of her struggle to properly mourn. I feel that trying to understand Tambu on this book only is similar to trying to understand present day Zimbabwe by reference to current events (and perhaps a Wiki outline of its history). The book is much more symbolic than the first two: a hyena reappears when Tambu’s grip on reality is least strong; a bag of mealie sent by her mother, one which she seems unable to either use of lose and one which gradually rots and decays both represents I think the burden of her shame at her village past (a shame which has almost physical impacts at times) and foreshadows the actions of her mother late in the book which end up forcing Tambu to repeat the actions of the second book and resign from a job. Overall I think this is a difficult book to read as a standalone one as evidenced by the reviews of many Goodreads whose reviews I closely follow: Tambu as a character in this book can be hard to understand or like; the book can feel very oblique at times; the choice of a second person voice is rarely optimal. However as the intense and difficult end to an important trilogy - and one which has reflected the difficult pre and post independence journey of her country via Tambu, I think it is a very worthwhile read. Thanks to Faber and Faber also for an ARC via NetGalley.

Your lack of choices confronts you angrily. But once more you tell yourself on oath you will not succumb to more bad energy than you already have. from the earlier version of this novel, then titled Chronicle of an Indomitable Daughter This Mournable Body is the third and last of the trilogy which began with Nervous Conditions and continued with The Book of Not, focused around the character of Tambudzai (Tambu), aged 13 when the trilogy commences in 1968. Nervous Conditions takes us (I think) to the early 1970s, and the Book of Not takes us through 18 April 1980, Zimbabwean Independence Day and into the early 1980s and this Mournable Body through to around the end of the 1990s, each novel picking up immediately where the last left off. In the two previous novels we saw how Tambu strived to overcome the treble disadvantages of her poverty, her race, in a white-dominated Rhodesia, and her gender, in a patriachal system, rising to become the top O-level student in the most prestiguous, multi-racial, boarding school in the country, the Young Ladies’ College of the Sacred Heart. Later in her career as an advertising copywriter, one of her campaigns won awards. But the Tambu in this novel is a rather different character, broken in spirit, unsure of her own identity. And the root cause of that is tied to the appropriation of her success by white classmates and colleagues. The trophy for best O level student was, despite Tambu's better results, given to a white girl, Tracey, (with the excuse that she was more of an all-rounder via her sporting skills). Tambu's A level results* suffered badly from her depression after that event, racial segregation meaning she couldn't attend some A level classes and had to rely on notes from white classmates, and the news that the family of one of her dormmates had been slaughtered in the civil war. When you were young and in fighting spirit, growing mealie cobs in the family field and selling them to raise money for your school fees, you were not this person that you have become. When and how did it happen? When you were amongst the brightest, in spite of running kilometres to school and studying beside a sooty candle? No, it couldn't have been then either. Nor was it in the days that followed at middle school at your uncle's mission, where you remained focused on a better life and so continued to excel. This leaves only your secondary school, the Young Ladies' College of the Sacred Heart. It must have been there that your metamorphosis took place. Yet how awful it is to admit that closeness to white people at the convent had ruined your heart, had caused your womb, from which you reproduced yourself before you gave birth to anything else, to shrink beneath your hip bones. (*In what seemed to me a small continuity error, this novel has Tambu resitting her A levels to obtain better, if still by her standards mediocre, grades, which didn't seem to feature in the earlier novel) And Tambu resigned from the advertising agency (where Tracey also worked in a more senior position) when credit for her award-winning campaign was given to an older, white, colleague. As the Book of Not ends and this novel begins, she is unemployed, and this diminished Tambu is reflected in the rather lowkey opening chapter. Whereas we had the dramatic openings of her brother's death in the first novel and her freedom-fighter sister losing a leg in an explosion in the second, here Tambu, at the urging of her boarding house owner who seems keen she lives, visits another boarding house owned by an elderly white lady, where she humiliatingly fails to get a job as a live-in maid. This novel was originally entitled Chronicle of an Indomitable Daughter but the author changed the title following an essay "Unmournable Bodies" by Teju Cole in the New Yorker (https://www.newyorker.com/culture/cul...), as Dangarembga has explained: “That essay pointed out how the world reacted to the Charlie Hebdo Massacre, but rarely reacts to massacres in Africa. Teju Cole asks us why we mourn the death of some bodies but not the death of other bodies. I extrapolated that question to living bodies. Basically I asked the question whether, if we could mourn the circumstance of certain living bodies we might not create a better world. At the same time those living bodies also need to mourn themselves in order to begin to heal and move forward.” This Mournable Body also sees a narrative shift into the second person, albeit one that can be taken as Tambu herself using that tense to herself. The author has explained it as in part representing her own reluctance to use the 'I' form for this rather less successful Tambu, but it also has the effect of distancing the perspective, and worked, for me very effectively: “I wrote it in the second person because that was the only way I could access the subject matter in a way that I felt made sense. I just didn’t have the heart to use the first person. I needed distance and I imagined the reader would to. On the other hand, I didn’t want to jump into the third person when the other two books were in the first. I also thought that might be too much distance. So I tried it out in the second and I liked the effect.” And the story takes us through the lows - Tambu's job as a teacher ends abruptly when she suffers a breakdown and violently assaults a pupil - and the seeming highs - reuniting with Tracey for an, at first successful, eco-tourism adventure, rekindling her entreprenurial spirit albeit her creativity is diminished - of Tambu's adventure to middle-age. The end of the novel is particularly effective, reintroducing the reader to Tambu's home village and family (rather absent from The Book of Not) and with a very neat parallel to the beginning of the Book of Not. That book began, in the homestead, with the arresting, and horrifying, image of her sister's severed leg arcing through the air to become wedged in a tree. Here, back in the village, it is a German tourist's camera that completes a similar journey, flung by Tambu's irate mother. And then in a brief what happened next coda, Tambu is re-taught by her freedom fighter Aunt, now running a successful security business, the importance of 'unhu' another key concept from the earlier novel. A worthy inclusion on the Booker shortlist and a possible winner.

Tsitsi Dangarembga's This Mournable Body, longlisted for the 2020 Booker Prize is a difficult book for me to review. It is the third in a trilogy (the much acclaimed Nervous Conditions published some 30 years back and The Book of Not) and my sense as I read this is that the earlier books significantly frame and perhaps explain the central character's response and reaction to many central incidents. I feel like I'm reading around an absence or something missing that the central character, Tsmbudzai, a middle aged Zimbabwean woman, is avoiding. It is this sense of oblique avoidance that in many ways propels the narrative and perhaps also offers an interesting political-social critique of post-colonial, post-independence Zimbabwe. I think in a meta sense it is also offering a critical response to expectations of postcolonial novels as well. The problem for me is that I haven't as yet read the two earlier books. "The landlady is still for a moment, like a woman who has departed to sit beside her sibling. Her words open up a void, out of which troop your own wounded and dead. You regard your memories from afar, and finally turn away from them". There is a lot of turning away from in this book and that might make it fruatrating, the obliqueness of it all, for some. "Starting out on your road to permanent recovery, this is something you will first have to live down and then deal with. How your cousin, who identified herself when she first came to visit at the hospital by the affectionate radiance that you remember her for, could show such poor judgment is perfectly baffling. You want one or the other, a powerful radiance or obvious failure, not this liminal complexity" I love the unexpected irony in this passage, almost laser like as it is directed at the reader: "You want one or the other, a powerful radiance or obvious failure, not this liminal complexity" Perhaps asking and challenging us about our readerly expectations for and of a character like Tsmbudzai, and refusing us any easy access to her or defining her. This Mournable Body follows Tsmbudzai through her daily life from a fascinating and unusual second person "You" perspective. I get the sense it is occuring around 2000. She is very much down on her luck after leaving a job as a copy editor with an advertising firm due to her sense that white employees are unfairly taking credit for her work. The book opens with a section that culminates in a deeply uncomfrotable violent incident. Tsmbudzai then finds her way to a position as a school teacher and then yet another violent outburst finds her dismissed from that role. As the novel progresses she is not a very likable character, portrayed as out for her own advantage, almost no matter the cost to others, as she seeks to find a way of improiving her lot in Harare. But as you would expect from a skillful novelist, this is far from the full story or version of Tsmbudzai (and through her of Zimbabwae over the past few decades). Through the various incidents that play out around and are instigated by Tsmbudzai, there is a sense that she almost avoids, even erases, what is occurring. She cannot confront perhaps a past that is driving and fueling her reactions and actions. So instead she displaces through an almost frantic effort to climb the ladder of Harare career and business opportunity. The novel's title and reference to Teju Cole's 2015 essay, "Unmournable Bodies" certainly sets up this theme of avoidance and silencing of a need to mourn. This novel powerfully represents the costs of such an avoidance. I think the "You" narration is at the heart of this, as it's distanced, accusatory and harsh. The narrative voice creates a distance or gap between the reader and the central character. She is very difficult to identify with and this because I think she is struggling to identify with her self. The "you" then is her, and her discomfort at having to confront constantly an almost impossible identity. She is deeply uncomfortable in her selves. It functions as a kind of self recrimination. But perhaps it also works as a collective "you", including possibly directed at the white, western gaze that might be tempted to judge this struggling woman for not being the expected, positive role model as a post-colonial black women. It is refusing us that. The burden of all this means that it almost has to be oblique, filterered through third-person and at times fades away in the midst of very confronting episodes. Much of this also has to do with the gendered "You" dealing with deeply ingrained mysogyny and tolerated violence inflicted on women. There is definitely a sense too that this is exacerbated by the costs of the brutal struggles and war for independence. I do acknowledge though this is my reading as a white westerner and not necessarily the mode of address that the author intends. This "You"potentially also interestingly displaces the "I" of much recent Western autofiction and therefore gives a particular kind of response to Tesju Cole's "Unmournable Bodies". She is refusing to respond with that whole authentic "I". She is obliquely refusing perhaps the autofictional I for example of Cole's Open City. This is just an idea, a possible reading I'm exploring. [Spoiler Warning]: The episode in the book's conclusion as Tambudzai endeavours to extend her boss's (Tracey Stevenson) 'cultural tourism' business to her home village by involving her mother, Mai, is telling here. We as readers I think are positioned, often uncomfortably, as cultural tourists, as Tambudzai works to present for us (and more interestingly to avoid) the authentic, post-colonial Zimbabwean experience. To ensure we are safe and comfortable as she does for the tourist customers of Green Jacaranda. Where it ends with the village woman expected to 'dance naked' for the tourist gaze is deeply unsettling. The various breakdowns in the narrative as it were, including the obliqueness of the narrative voice, is refusing this, refusing to perform a certain kind of 'naked, authentic' identity for the narrative camera of readers as cultural tourists by throwing our cameras into the tree as it were. However, without having read the first two novels I'm finding it difficult to position and respond to this "You" voice. It is fascinating and at times disconcerting. But how reliable is it? What else might the earlier two books reveal about this character that may provide a different perspective on the constant oblique avoidances that more than anything for me define this book's voice. A worthy read providing me with a lot to think about. I will definitely get to the first two books, hopefully in the near future, and then perhaps reassess this review.

My Litsy review says a lot in small amount of space: "This an uncomfortable book. After building up our hero, Tambu, in two terrific novels, Dangarembga essentially tosses that away. Zimbabwe is not such an easily wrapped place and her previous construct is here, maybe intentionally, undermined. This is not a Tambu you‘re going to like, nor will you like seeing her struggles from inside your own head in a 2nd person narrative. I‘m partially horrified and partially impressed. A difficult read." This novel follows Tambu again, continuing from the previous novels but into a very different Zimbabwe. The first two books took place in the 1960's and 1970's, during the "War". (The Rhodesian Bush War—also called the Second Chimurenga as well as the Zimbabwe War of Liberation, 1965-1979). I don't think we are ever given a date for the time period covered here, but at one point a 2002 movie is mentioned, and we have email but not smart phones. This Zimbabwe is peaceful, somewhat prosperous, and has a flourishing tourist industry. It also has its tensions: an accepted but corrupt government, a kind of tense cooperation between the mostly wealthy whites and the rest of the population, and, notably, a significant set of psychologically scarred veteran freedom fighters who tend to be discouraged with the results of their victory. Thematically this builds on the last chapters of The Book of Not where Dangarembga began to explore the dangers of the post-war urban capitalisms and its underlying emptiness. There it almost felt like an add on. But here Tambu's struggles within this environment are the main plot. I'm really glad I read the first two books before this (Nervous Conditions and The Book of Not). They aren't essential plot-wise, but they provide a context, and a background for Tambu, adding a kind of resonating shock value here. Also the first two books are really rewarding, and, unlike this one, are easy on the reader. ----------------------------------------------- 33. This Mournable Body by Tsitsi Dangarembga published: 2018 format: 280-page paperback acquired: June read: Jul 12-19 time reading: 10:01, 2.1 mpp rating: 4 locations: Zimbabwe about the author: born 1959 in Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe)

I could not really connect with the book almost all the way to the end, but the ending was worth it - maybe I will have to read the previous two novels of the series.

Actual Rating: 4.5 stars I highly highly highly recommend reading the book #1 (Nervous Conditions) and book #2 (The Book Of Not) in this series before this one which is #3. I read the book as a standalone for the #bookerboybookclub as this has been long-listed for the Booker 2020. But a lot had to be read in between the lines! So read the others first! Now onto the review The women from war are like that, a new kind of being that no one knew before, not exactly male but no longer female. It is rumoured the blood stopped flowing to their wombs the first time they killed a person. People whisper that the unspeakable acts were even more iniquitous when performed by women, so that the ancestors tied up the nation's prosperity in repugnance at the awfulness of it, just as they had done to the women's wombs. In this book, Tambu, our lead character is running away from all her past demons. She is trying to create stability for herself, with all that she has gone through. The reason for cutting the 0.5 stars was simply because the book tends to get a bit boring at times. But, the last 10% is where things just happen. It was amazing reading a book from a culture I know nothing about and I will be reading the other two soon! In conclusion Read this series for sure!

"Now you understand. You arrived on the back of a hyena. The treacherous creature dropped you from above onto a desert floor. There is nothing here except, at the floor's limits, infinite walls. You are an ill-made person. You are being unmade." Thirty years after the publication of Nervous Conditions Tsitsi Dangarembga brings her trilogy to a fulminant end. At the beginning of This Mournable Body, Tambudzai has left her job as a copywriter. She lives from her meagre savings and stays at a women's hostel - where the board complains she is too old. Tambudzai knows she has to refocus and get her life together; her anxiety about being forced to go back to the homestead as present as ever. Dangarembga shows once again that she knows how to paint intricate portrays of women's psyches. This is not a particularly easy read. Tambudzai is may be at her lowest yet and it is hard to always empathise with her, especially because she herself is often judgmental and harsh to the women around her. But at the same time, this makes her a fascinating character. Her actions and thoughts are the results of her struggles, traumas, and her still reigning ambition. The violence is often written opaquely, making you re-read parts to gather the horror and thus making it even more effective and mirroring the underlying patriarchal and (post)colonial violence. Dangarembga is also very good at writing very tension, I felt the anxiety almost creep into my body. Having the entire narrative in 2nd-person supports this direct attack on the reader. This Mournable Body looks at post-independence Zimbabwe and dissects the lives of Zimbabwean women - from former fighters for independence to women who studied abroad. In the end, Tambudzai has to make difficult decisions and find ways to cope if not even heal. How much more is she willing to give up?

A tough read, filled with self-loathing that often manifests as hatred of others and occasionally reveals itself openly as mental illness. Filled with ambiguous animal symbolism and written in the rhythm of local speech patterns, it took me a while to get into the swing, but by the conclusion I was completely absorbed by the desperate way Tambudzai tries to drag herself to a healthier state of mind, while constantly being battered by the lamentable state of modern Zimbabwe and the mournable condition of its denizens' bodies - particularly those of the women, who are battered and bruised by societally ingrained sexism. For Tambudzai, the only method to get through the trauma of her existence is to shut out the drama, to try and close her eyes to the unpleasantness or blame the victims for their own situation. She simply doesn't feel strong enough to address it head on, unlike some of the other female characters, who use either their experience as fighters in Zimbabwean wars or their privileged overseas education to attempt to carve out a better future for the nation's women.

I did not read the second book of this trilogy, but this one stands alone pretty well. It was great to revisit characters like Nyasha and Lucia as well as Tambu and to see how they grew and what they retained from the first novel. There is a lot of plot in this book, and Tambu moves through a bunch of different circumstances that are filtered through her experience of her race, class, and gender as well as the realities of postcolonial Zimbabwe and the fallout from the war. I loved the part near the end about ecotourism and the way that scene evolves. The theme of mental health continues through this novel as well. I did feel like Tambu was very distanced or disconnected from the reader, and perhaps that was intentional, but the second person "you" narration would lead you to believe she'd be even more intimate than she was in the first novel.

Masterful writing of a harrowing subject. I haven’t read the previous two books in this trilogy but reading this you do get a sense of depth that comes with the characters having fully fleshed out histories. I felt that reading this was at times like having a nightmare, not just the subject matter but also the 2nd person address makes it very urgent and involving.

I liked the second of Dangarembga's trilogy a lot less than the first, and rather stupidly assumed the auhor had not realised how unlikeable her protagonist had become. It is clear in the brilliant, but difficult, This Mournable Body that Dangarembga is very clear on how unpleasant Tambu is - the use of a sharp, claustrophobic second person forces the reader to walk with her through decisions that are often selfish and yet self-destructive all at the same time. There is no space from Tambu, no easy capacity to coolly judge her, and yet no way not to be constantly judging her at the same time. In a world with increasingly critiques of colonialism featuring loveable, idealistic and caring protagonists, Tambu sits as an anomaly. I can admire this, in many ways. The book challenges our assumptions about who deserves compassion, and what the impact of colonialism is. In one telling passage: "You grow increasingly galled by your cousin and her assumption that everyone has the luxury she has of surviving without being obsessed with one’s own person." Nevertheless, the first half, following her slide into desperation fuelled by infuriating decisions, I simply hate reading. Around the middle of the book, when the story becomes more linear and the plot less telegraphed, I found myself far more engaged, and able to admire the skill and the complexity with which we were being asked to see Zimbabwe through Tambu's status-obsessed eyes. By living so intently with her, we also feel her trauma and her desperate need for healing. Her continuous rejection of connection - selfish acts and neglect which push others away - is like the behaviour of the wounded and the shocked. That we can see this, and yet must live through it with Tambu, makes it visceral. And even as the tension around the clearly looming destruction of all that Tambu thinks she wants builds unbearably, there is sharpness in the portraiture of those around her - the white boss blind to the exploitation that enables her, the war veterans trying to build in a nation of destruction, the immigrants and urban poor. I suspect this will be a book that stays with me forever, but it wasn't a lot of fun to read.

This is a different story. Some may even consider bizarre. Endling is a story of the ending of existence. We meet Yeva, an ecologist, who is studying snails in Ukraine, while working in the romance tour industries to fund her studies. She has a favourite snail, Lefty, who she is trying to ensure his mating so the species does not go extinct. She keeps him in her mobile van in which she lives. The story takes a twist when she is approached by Nastia and her sister, who are in the wedding industry, wanting to abduct 12 bachelors and use Yeva's van in the hope of locating their activist mother. The story takes place in 2022 during the ongoing war with Russia. Things get weirder once the abduction takes place. The author inserts herself at different points in the story so it did cause some confusion for this reader. Although I found this to be a little messy, I did appreciate the writing, it's uniqueness and one I will likely contemplate more on. Themes of war; abandonment; friendship; environment; identity. 4 ⭐️

3.5 stars. This is a hard one to rate, it is doing so many things and that is intentional. As a work of meta fiction--a narrative about narratives--it is most effective. But strangely I found that once it took this turn it was strangely unwilling to really engage with it. That is, ultimately, what may be the most difficult about this book. It is about the war in Ukraine, a real event that is ongoing and still has people under threat every day, and part of what Reva struggles with is that once war breaks out it takes over all stories, it becomes the biggest stakes of all, whatever little story you were trying to tell now feels ridiculous. And she gives us some ways to let this play out in the novel itself, but the metaphor never fully works in the novel. The war-torn version of the story lacks stakes and character and all the things we had before. That is the point, but it also means we only have half a novel. What I wish is that Reva was able to push us even further to fill that void with something more to say. It's a struggle, and much of the book is about that: the difficulty of saying anything in the face of such horror. And yet, that is the thing that we must do. The thing Endling almost does.

Me on This Book in Eight Ironic English Words: Last snails on Earth and I crave contact. "There’s this quote by Constantine Tereshchenko, a local visual artist: “Culture is the thinnest layer of moss on the body of human existence. It was shaved off with a bulldozer, now there’s an enormous wound.”" p335 In Short: I liked this book, but I need to start by refuting an unscientific claim made by the book's main character, a biologist. In one of her many internal musings, this fmc shares something shocking about sea otters and how they interact with dogs. It's important to me to say this information has not been verified. While sea otters are known to be violent with other animals, they don't tend to interact with dogs. Most violent interactions involving sea otters can be explained by territory and resource disputes. Now, that being said, this was a pretty great book if you can get by all the animal suffering. I decided to push through because of how much the book centers the value of conservation work. And also, the subtextual story (subplot, maybe?) was so absurd! It was designed to be, as it was about war and the many ways war alters reality, obscuring objectivity beneath noise. This book was so striking to me read through the screenreader that I am going back to read it with my eyes. It will give me more perspective on the form experimentation and that's worth the ridiculous amount of work it takes for me to read with my eyes. "Content Warnings:" gr*pe mention, sexual dominance in animals, animal violence, animal cruelty, animal death, species extinction, mass extinction, arranged marriage, marriage tourism, war, propoganda, gaslighting, military invasion, Preread: The author had a really tough job, connecting her seemingly far-flung subjects, companionship at the end of the world...and snails. Her attempt at least is fascinating. This is a dour book and it's working for me. I found an accessible digital copy in Libby!📚 "Snails weren’t furry or cute. They weren’t interactive with humans. Snails weren’t pandas—those oversize bumbling toddlers that sucked up national conservation budgets—or any of the other charismatic megafauna, like orcas or gorillas. Snails weren’t huggy koala bears, which in reality were vicious and riddled with chlamydia. Nor were snails otters, which looked like plush toys made for mascots by aquariums, despite the fact that they lured dogs from beaches to drown and rape them." p8 "Yeva’s words came slowly. “You know how there are some people out there, people who…” Her mother didn’t like where this was going. Yeva tried again. “People who like both men and women.” Her mother closed her eyes. She was trying, trying her hardest to expand her mind to fit such people. There was even a word for them. She didn’t understand them herself, but with time could grow to tolerate them, if these were her daughter’s people." p18 "Now, if a bachelor asked about what she did for a living, she’d answer, voice cracking: “I kill snails. Or, used to.” They’d nod in approval. “Pest control. Good line of work.”" p25 "I’m getting calls for magazine interviews, photo shoots, radio appearances I’d only dreamed of when my book first came out. I’m trying to be grateful. But why must a country be bombed before we care about it? Yurt Makers: The world is a whore." p117 "They raced through a birch forest. She glanced at Yeva and caught a flutter of her eyelids, a good sign. Nastia had to distract her, like one distracts a child before she realizes she’s fallen, bumped her knee. “Yeva, look.” Nastia nodded at an old log up ahead, lolling into luxurious chocolate chunks along the side of the road. Rotten logs, cradles of new life, now in shorter and shorter supply: an obsession of Yeva’s." p326

4,5 - This smart novel combines a wild plot with metafictional elements that make a thought-provoking whole. The setting is Ukraine and our main character is beautiful, independent Yeva who is obsessed with saving Ukraine's threatened snail species from extinction. To finance her mobile lab, she goes on dates with Western men who have come to Ukraine via a 'bridal agency'. When a colleague of Yeva develops a wild plot to kidnap some of these bachelors, she decides to play along. But when the plan finally reaches execution (at around 40% into the novel), war breaks out and the novel starts taking unexpected twists and turns as well, lifting it to another level and morphing into something unique, sharp and exciting. I just went along for the ride and thought it was excellent.

4.5 stars A strange but successful novel, both a literary and an absurdist tale of Ukraine, mixing serious elements—the Russian invasion, species extinction—with hilariously weird ones, chiefly involving women kidnapping bachelors from a romance tour. Then there’s the metafictional aspect, as the author’s own horror at watching the invasion of her homeland from afar intrudes on the text. I’m not a big fan of metafiction and at first was skeptical that this brought anything to the story, but in the end I do think it added, bringing an additional layer of context and immediacy to the novel without detracting from the fiction. So often stories about war, even featuring civilians, wind up with a bit of a pro-war vibe simply by virtue of the fact that the war is the only interesting thing happening in them. Reva nicely avoids that here, both through the metafictional elements and by giving her protagonists lives and stories and goals that are interrupted by the war rather than needing it to make them sing. I especially cared about Yeva, a scientist trying to preserve endangered snails, and the juxtaposition of extinction and war is a great tonal and thematic fit. The end is heartbreaking of course, both in itself and because the invasion is real and ongoing. (view spoiler) I would have liked a little more from a couple of the characters, particularly Sol, but overall I found this an excellent novel, and worth sticking with even if you’re not entirely sold at first. Reva’s collection of linked short stories, Good Citizens Need Not Fear, is also worth the read.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize!

An oddly original story set in Ukraine in 2022, just before the Russian invasion. The premise sounds wild: saving the last of a snail species, the bride industry, and the abduction of Western bachelors shopping for a wife. But Rivas somehow makes it all hang together. She writes about the war with a sharp mix of humor and heartbreak, a bit meta by slipping herself into the narrative regarding her own process—her Ukrainian roots, now living in Canada, and the question of whether she has the right to tell this story at all. It’s quirky, self-aware, and unexpectedly moving. The structure is different, sure, but I ended up really enjoying it. Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize

I don’t know whether you ever wondered about the coupling habits of the Taiwanese giant wood roach. If you did, then you will find some information about it in “Endling” by Maria Reva. Equally, if you didn’t, there are still many reasons why should anyone read this book. The story is set in modern Ukraine while being under attack by the Russian occupation forces. Yeva, is a biologist, passionate about saving endangered snail species. In order to fund her work, she participates in romance tours, which are part of the mail-order bride industry in the country. There she meets two sisters, Nastia and Solomiya, who joined the tours with the hope to find their mom, a quirky activist who was against the Ukrainian marriage industry. For them to accomplish their goal, they plan to kidnap a group of Western bachelors in order to draw media’s attention. While their operation is ongoing, Russia invades Ukraine, shifting the fictional narrative to a metafictional reflection of the author’s thoughts about war, identity and survival. I have to admit this book is messy and creates a series of messy feelings. On a few occasions I had to stop and understand what I was actually reading. But going through the pages you realise that this is actually its purpose. Reva’s writing is simple but beautiful and the few chapters where she expresses her own thoughts are deep and moving. On many occasions she uses dark humour to pass her message, something that is done in a very sensitive way. And when you read the last page you feel that you’ve finished a book that is timely and poignant, exploring deep moral questions and making you feel more human and empathetic, even while being in the warmth of your house when at the same time bombs are still dropping in many places around the world. This is a book about war, destruction and violence. The full scale Russian invasion of Ukraine. Lives interrupted by conflict, war zones, bombing, unity and separation. About dark reality, propaganda, expats and immigrants. It is also a story about extinction and hope. Snails and other endangered species. The reality of being the last of your kind, literally and metaphorically. Science, conservation work and activism. About exploitation and female agency. Diminished female autonomy and the commodification of women’s body. Dates for money, the marriage industry and judgment for using your sexuality to make your life better. It is also a book about identity in the time of external pressure. Memories of what has been lost. The fact that memory can act as both comfort and curse. About the idea of home. The need of facing your own failure and growing up and those moments in life when all possibilities open before you. It is also a story about blending reality with fiction. The will to tell your story and the choice of what you want your story to be. How we make sense of trauma through storytelling. Changing the status quo and sending your message. Mostly though this is a book about insane plans, taking your mission seriously and fulfilling your purpose. About having a strong moral compass and not deviating from your mission. About hope that can be all you have left. The need to connect the narratives and make sense. All those things that are at stake: species, nations, identities and memories. This is a 4-4.5/5 for me! Why should you read “Endling”? Because you will learn about snails more than you probably need to know. Because you will realise that there are still male originated stereotypes about women being docile or deceitful scammers. Because you will understand that having a future is a luxury and should never be taken for granted. Because you will reflect on who had the biggest trauma while a country is in a war; the people who stay or those who flee? Because you will accept that part of our miraculous human nature is to look for love in a time of war. Because you will think about the exploitation of war stories by the media and the role of art in the face of atrocity. Because you will acknowledge that in our lives fact and fiction keep blurring together. Favourite quotes: “But why must a country be bombed before we care about it?”. “The world is a whore”. “Art exists in the liminal space between the giver and the receiver”. “It’s what you all do, in the free world. You waste your freedom and you clear skies on things that don’t matter, like politeness and the perfect lawn”. “The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results, Einstein might have said”. “Life teetered between annihilation and-could she dare think it?-hope”.

i can see myself rereading this at some point. thanks to the publisher for the gifted copy!

What a strange unsettling book.

3.5 This Booker longlisted debut started off with a bang and it had me intrigued from the start. First, we meet Yeva, who's obsessed with saving endlings - the last known individuals of a species - and not any endlings but the snail kind. She lives in Ukraine, lives in a van with a lab attached. To make ends meet and to support her research - she is a reluctant participant in the Ukrainian bride industry endeavours - where hapless North American men come over to Ukraine to find a bride. She doesn't want to find a man. Her small talk leaves a lot to be desired. :-) Nastia is just eighteen, striking, and her reason for joining the Ukraine marriage complex is quite different, but also has nothing to do with finding a man. Her mad idea to kidnap some bachelors to draw attention brings her to Yeva, who eventually acquiesces. So Yeva, Nastia and her sister, plus thirteen bachelors go on an adventure of sorts. This original novel mashed together ecology, the Ukraine war, the Ukraine marriage complex. I loved that the female characters were not at all like some men's wet dreams - meek, obedient, and in need of a men. As the story progressed and the groups adventures got even crazier, the novel lost some steam and became even more unhinged. At times, I got lost and confused myself, as the author inserts herself into the narrative. Despite its imperfections, this was an excellent debut novel, with an interesting premise and unique characters. Slava Ukraini!

Maria Riva is one of the most creative authors I have read. In this story of Ukraine she combines the Ukrainian marriage industry, the brutal Russian invasion and saving a remaining species of snail. Wow! The storytelling is excellent, but it is the many layers underneath the story and exposed by it that I continue to ponder. There are a number of more complete reviews on GR, which I recommend – at this point I feel a bit unqualified to deeply analyze this novel I read a while ago.

Life teetered on a knife’s edge between annihilation and – could she dare to think it? – hope. Endling is, without a doubt, one of the strangest novels I’ve ever read. It begins as a book about the bride industry in Ukraine, but both the narrative and the author writing it are derailed when Russia attacks. Thus, what began as a story about a snail rescuer, romance tours, and a half-baked kidnapping plot becomes a metafictional meditation on the disastrous effects of war, on the largest and smallest scales. I read Endling quite a while ago, and immediately after finishing it, I wasn’t sure how I felt about it. But the book hasn’t left my mind since, and the more I think about it, the more I’ve come to appreciate everything Maria Reva is doing with this book. By inserting herself into the story, she gives us not only a glimpse into her writing process and the publishing industry, but also a deeply personal, intimate portrait of the war’s impact on her family. There are aspects of this format that feel disjointed and unfinished – but this, given the current state of Ukraine’s war with Russia, is likely the entire point. There’s also something incredibly poignant about the idea of saving snails – those tiny, vulnerable creatures – from extinction while all-out war is raging. The determination of it, despite the futility of it, is so tenderly, beautifully human. The way Reva explores relationships and the expectations placed upon us – by our parents, by our romantic partners – is thought-provoking and only adds to the human aspects of a brutal, war-torn narrative. It’s quite a delicate balance to strike, and Reva strikes it skillfully. By the end of Endling, what began as something absurdist and darkly funny has evolved into a thoughtful, affecting exploration of war, relationships, and the foundations of what it means to be human. It’s unlike anything I’ve ever read before and a book I will never forget. Thank you to Doubleday for the complimentary reading opportunity.

This was a layered and complex story that I won't soon forget. I'm impressed that this was a debut!

A most original debuts - a darkly comic, formally daring novel that examines how we tell stories of survival when the world outside is collapsing. At first it’s a quirky road‑caper about Yeva, a malacologist driving a converted RV across Ukraine to rescue rare snails, until the outrageous gets real—and devastating—when war shatters both her plot and the narrative itself ￼. What I loved most was how Maria Reva refuses to settle into a single genre. She even interrupts the text to question her own right to write about trauma from abroad. This novel dares to ask: what does fiction become when reality breaks through so violently? ￼ ￼ And the emotional center of the book pulses with exile. The prose captures a chilling truth of watching war from a distance: “Watching a war from abroad, rather than living it, can be its own brand of horror. Moonlike, we in the diaspora watch the captured zones of our homeland ebb and flow like tides.… Then we put on our shoes and go to work, surrounded by people who have other worries.” “It’s what you all do, in the free world. You waste your freedom and your clear skies on things that don’t matter, like politeness and the perfect lawn. That’s why I can’t go back.” The snail imagery—specifically the “endling,” the sole surviving member of a dying species—lingers long after the last page. Reva’s prose is never sentimental, but always precise: the snails, like Ukraine itself, nearly invisible yet worthy of rescue. And then the kidnapping‑capers, the romance‑tour satire, the abrupt invasion, the narrative collapse—it all fuses into something deeply original. ￼ Ultimately, Endling is not a comfort read—it’s unsettling, irreverent, alive. It’s inventive, vital, and deeply humane. Maria Reva may begin the book chasing a snail’s extinction—and instead she delivers something unforgettable. Well deserved Booker Longlist…and hopefully shortlist.

Tan Twan Eng’s books are like sinking into a big, warm, cosy bed. I’m generally not a big fan of fiction about real people, but this story – about the writer William Somerset Maugham staying with an English couple in 1920s Penang – is gorgeously written and gently absorbing. The plot incorporates the character of Sun Yat Sen, a real-life Chinese revolutionary, as well as an infamous murder and trial (which, in turn, was also fictionalised by Maugham!), that of Ethel Proudlock. It seems like these different strands should be difficult to reconcile but here, it feels effortless. I also really enjoyed the little Easter-egg-style references to characters from the author’s other novels. I received an advance review copy of The House of Doors from the publisher through Edelweiss.

The House of Doors, by Tan Twan Eng, is a work of historical fiction set in the British colony of Penang, Malaya during three time periods, the earliest in 1910 and the next in 1921. A prologue and postscript are set on a farm in South Africa, far from the primary activity of the novel. As the novel opens Lesley Hamlyn and her husband Robert have learned that Robert’s long-ago university friend, Somerset Maugham, is in Asia and will soon be in Malaya. He and his secretary will soon be their houseguests. It is during their two week visit that Lesley shares with “Willie” some stories of interesting events in Penang and Malaya that happened during 1910, including a lengthy visit by Sun Yat Sen. To be continued…. Thanks to Bloomsbury Publishing and NetGalley for an e-arc of this book. The review is my own.

A really interesting novel, with some fantastic moments and beautiful writing. I found the characterisation really strong, although I at times struggled to know for certain what the centre of the book was, so perhaps it's one of those that is slightly too literary for me. I am now curious to read some W. Somerset Maugham.

Longlisted 2023 Booker Prize. I haven't read any of Tan Twan Eng's previous works, and after my encounter with "The House of Doors" (mainly because it is Booker Prize-listed), I'm eager to read more, especially his highly regarded "The Garden of Evening Mists." This isn't a lengthy novel, coming in at around 300 pages, but it impressively delivers a wealth of literary quality. The writing is beautifully evocative, casting a luminous spell over the early twentieth-century Penang setting. It conveys a mood through delicately rendered passages, an experience of basking in a unique form of literary expression. Even days after finishing it, I found myself revisiting and rereading some of the passages, just to immerse once more in that resonant atmosphere—a peculiar blend of memory and nostalgia woven into a haunting tapestry of smells, colors, and episodes. However, these passages can also be disquieting and even disturbing, particularly within the broader context of a narrative exploring themes of colonialism and the struggle for cultural and national identity. The literary set pieces throughout the novel bear a striking resemblance to the works of Somerset Maugham. This connection becomes significant as Maugham himself becomes a prominent presence and character in the story. The narrative revolves around two central figures: Lesley Hamlyn (first person) and Somerset “Willie” Maugham (third person). They meet in 1921 in the Straits Settlement of Penang. Lesley resides there with her lawyer husband, Robert, and their two sons in a colonial homestead known as Cassowary House. Willie Maugham stays with them during his Asian travels, seeking inspiration for his novels and stories (fresh from a trip to China that provided material for his upcoming works). At this point, Maugham is a celebrated literary figure and an old friend of Robert's, with whom he once shared a home during their student years. As Lesley engages in evening conversations and drinks on the verandah with Willie, reminiscent of a bygone colonial era, she divulges events from her life, including infidelities she suspects will serve as fodder for Maugham's stories. The narrative often feels as though it's channeled through Maugham, even in Lesley's first-person sections, which bear a distinct Somerset Maugham style and tone. Some of the events Lesley recounts focus on her earlier encounter with the Chinese nationalist revolutionary Sun Yat-sen, who was in exile in Penang, rallying local support for his cause. There's also a significant episode involving her close friend, Ethel Proudlock, who faced trial for the murder of William Steward. Both Sun Yat-Sen's time in Penang and Proudlock's trial are grounded in historical events. Through these accounts, Tan Twan Eng explores themes of colonialism, murder, sexuality, and infidelity. At times, the narrative feels so 'Somerset Maugham' that it almost comes across as an intricate and elegantly crafted homage to late Victorian and Edwardian literature. This homage is strengthened by the knowledge that it draws inspiration from Maugham's short story, 'Letter,' from "The Casuarina Tree" collection. The House of Doors offers numerous layers, intertwining storytelling and narration, through the meeting between Lesley and Maugham, which opens doors to other tales, such as that of Ethel Proudlock or Lesley's brief yet significant involvement with Penang's Chinese revolutionary community. Early in the novel and revisited in the conclusion, we find Lesley in 1947 addressing the memory of her deceased husband, Robert, who passed away six years earlier. Lesley had relocated to South Africa with Robert to aid his recovery from a chronic illness stemming from his military service in WWI. "I received a book today, Robert,’ I say to the empty chair next to mine. ‘One of Willie’s old books. The Casuarina Tree. You remember it?’ I sip my wine, feeling it warm my insides. ‘Forgive me – it was a stupid question. Of course you’d remember it. It wasn’t one of your favorites, was it?" In the mail, she receives a first edition of Maugham's “The Casuarina Tree,” which stirs and evokes her memories of Penang, Malaya. However, as her memories transport the narrative back to 1921 Penang, Eng's prose suggests an element of danger and unease: "There is not the slightest stir of wind, and there is no sound, not even the usual petulant bleating of sheep from the valley. The world is so still, so quiescent, that I wonder if it has stopped turning. But then, high above the land, I see tremor in the air. A pair of raptors, far from their mountain eyrie. For a moment or two, I want to believe they are brahminy kites, but of course they cannot be. My eyes follow the two birds as they drift on the span of their outstretched wings, writing circles over circles on the empty page of the sky." It's the splendid writing that brings events and memories to life that stands out in this novel. While it occasionally flirts with overwriting, for some reason, the echoes of mood and memory work exceptionally well for me. One standout memory involves Lesley's recollection of an evening naked swim with Willie, leading to a luminous, almost transcendent moment: 'Like an anchor sliding from a ship, I sank beneath the surface of the sea and cleaved my way down, descending in a cocoon of light. Shadowy fishes darted around me. The water grew colder, but still I kept falling, intoxicated by the sensation that I was traveling back in time. Was it because the sea was so immeasurably old, existing even before the firmaments had been formed to divide the waters from the waters? I was gripped by an atavistic urge to keep sinking, down and ever down into the impenetrable darkness, boring a narrow tunnel of light into the fathomless sea, nebulae burning from my fingertips, comet-fire trailing in my wake. What would happen if I kept falling, all the way to the beginning of time?" I thoroughly enjoyed this luxurious swim in Eng's exquisite prose and sincerely hope that "The House of Doors" receives a well-deserved spot on this year's Booker Prize shortlist.

I’ve wanted to read Tan Twan Eng’s works for years, ever since a few bookish friends of mine read both his previous award-winning novels and kept recommending them to me. While I do have both of those novels on my TBR (as well as physical copies sitting on my shelf), I keep falling into the “too many books, too little time” trap and of course, in the end, I wasn’t able to get to them (someday though, I am determined that I will get to all the books I’ve been meaning to get to!). Anyway, I guess it shouldn’t be a surprise then that when I heard Tan would have a new book out this year, I jumped at the chance to grab a copy, and while I was hoping to have read this one last month before it was actually released, getting to it now is better late than never. One of the things I’ve heard that Tan is known for is the beautiful, lyrical prose that he utilizes to tell his stories. While yes, there was definitely quite a bit of beautiful writing in this newest novel, it actually didn’t permeate the entire story, at least it didn’t feel so to me. I felt that some parts — especially those related to the Proudlock murder trial — were written in a simpler, more straightforward style that seemed to be a little bit at odds with the more descriptive and elegant prose in other parts. But then I later read in an article that with the trial segments, Tan was trying to hew as close to the real life unfolding of the event as possible, in which case, the more restrained, straightforward writing made sense. This is actually one of those books where there technically wasn’t much action in terms of plot (a large part of the book was the main protagonist Lesley Hamlyn recounting a story to famous author W. Somerset Maugham) — yet at the same time, there seemed to be several threads running through the book that felt necessary to keep track of. Essentially, the story is a reimagining of Maugham’s trip to Penang in the 1920s and what he learns while there becoming the inspiration for one of his later books, the short story collection entitled The Casuarina Tree (which was published in 1926). While I’m familiar with Maugham as an author, since I’ve read a few of his previous works (my favorite of the ones I’ve read is The Painted Veil), I knew very little about his personal life, so I was curious how much of the way Tan depicted Maugham was fact versus fiction — which of course took me down the rabbit hole of reading up on Maugham after finishing the novel (it was fascinating to see how Tan incorporated the real life details about Maugham into the story). Also, after finishing this novel, I immediately wanted to read The Casuarina Tree to see how Maugham actually wrote the story of the Proudlock murder and trail (which itself was based on real life events) and how much of it jived with Tan’s version (I know, I’m a nerd with this kind of stuff) — though unfortunately, I haven’t been able to get my hands on a copy yet. One of the other threads that Tan wove into the book was a backstory involving the famous Chinese revolutionary Dr. Sun Yat Sen (who really had visited Penang at the time, but in a different year). There were also other aspects of Chinese history that Tan incorporated into the story, such as the Taiping Rebellion and the fall of the Qing dynasty. Given the dearth of English language novels in existence that talk about such lesser known aspects of Chinese history (and actually get the facts straight to boot), I definitely appreciated what Tan did here. Even though this particular story arc was secondary (the main arc was Maugham’s visit and the story Lesley told him), it was, in my opinion, the best written part of the book (and certainly my favorite out of the several threads throughout the story). Overall, this was quite an ambitious novel with multiple threads that made the story a tad convoluted in places, but I still enjoyed it immensely. As I mentioned earlier, I definitely need to track down a copy of The Casuarina Tree so I can study the parallels — after that, I might just dig up my copies of Tan’s previous 2 novels and get started on them (time permitting, of course). Received ARC from Bloomsbury Publishing via NetGalley.

I’m really unsure why I struggled to gel with this title first time around. I’m so glad that I decided to come back to it! Beautiful narration. Currently included with audible 🎧

Booker book 3 or 13: 8/10. A nicely crafted historical novel featuring Somerset Maugham and his travels in what is now Malaysia. As a big Maugham fan, I appreciated the way Eng brings the master to life and deftly interweaves the source material of several of his stories while highlighting what didn’t get told in those tales. I think the book would still be enjoyable- as character study of Maugham and Lesley (his fictional hostess in Penang) and as a depiction of a time and a place - for those unfamiliar with Maugham and his work, but there are a lot of details to reward his fans. The book was a touch sedate for me. While all kinds of passions are touched on, I can’t say I ever felt that emotionally involved. Nonetheless it was very enjoyable and exceedingly well put together.

4 stars = Fantastic and easy to recommend. You know what … money really is? Money’s the sixth sense. If you don’t have it, you can’t make … the most of the other five. This is the second novel I have read by Tan Twan Eng, and I have loved both of them. He tells memorable stories that unfold at a leisurely pace with beautiful prose. Loosely based on real people and historical events, I thoroughly enjoyed this dual timeline, dual narrator historical novel and am now eager to read my first book by W. Somerset Maugham. ‘Don’t you ever get tired of travelling?’ ‘Never. I enjoy the … freedom it gives me. I feel that when I travel I can change … myself a little, and I return from a journey not quite the same … self I was.’ ------------------------------------------- First Sentence: A story, like a bird of the mountain, can carry a name beyond the clouds, beyond even time itself. Favorite Quote: While we are living, the air sustains us, but the very instant we stop breathing, that same air immediately sinks its teeth into us. What keeps us alive will also, in the end, consume us.

An intriguing story that explores the constraints of the time, based on real people. For Willie, Gerald and Robert it is the illicit homosexuality and for Lesley and Ethel it is adultery. Adding in Sun Yat Sen and the Chinese connection added to the story. I liked the way the book unfolded and what people did in their lives.

The history of Straits Settlements was written by a select few, predominantly White males. One of the well-known writers is "Willie" Somerset Maugham. In the opening of 'House of Doors', Willie finds himself freshly arrived on the island of Penang in 1921. He reunites with his dear friend, Robert Hamlyn, living with his wife, Lesley at the Cassowary House. Among his successful facade, Willie finds himself in dire financial need and knows he must write to keep his creditors at bay. Seeking inspiration, he turns to local gossip, hoping to ignite his creative spark. As fate would have it, multiple conversations with Lesley lead to a profound bond, and she begins to confide her experiences with Willie. The novel primarily comprises 4 arcs: the biography and works of Maugham, the event of Ethel Proudlock's murder trial, Sun Yat Sen's extended stay in Penang, and the relationship between Lesley, Robert and the people surrounding them. It may seem ambitious, but Tan masterfully weaves together these elements, painting a vivid portrait of Penang. It uncovers the privilege experienced by White individuals during the British colonization. Shedding light on the oppressive standards of sexual orientation and its far-reaching consequences. Looking at certain men wield power to shield their guilt and safeguard their egos. It also delves into the raw dynamic of relationships. Tan mentioned that the book is anti-romance and I very much agreed. This novel is not without its flaws; Book 1 may feel draggy, and Tan uses extensive words that could distract readers from the story. However, upon entering Book 2, the narrative significantly picks up pace, immersing readers in the complexities of life. All in all, 'The House of Doors' is a compelling appreciation for Malaysia history and the resilience of the human spirit. Despite its ugliness, I'm thankful for Tan Twan Eng, "Willie" Somerset Maugham and Lesley for sharing this story. Rating: 4.5 stars

The year is 1921, Lesley Hamlyn and her husband Robert, a lawyer and war veteran, live at Cassowary House on the Straits Settlement of Penang. "Willie" Somerset Maugham, a famous writer and old friend of Robert's arrives for an extended visit with his secretary Gerald, the pair threatens a rift that could alter more lives than one.' A mesmerizing novel based on real events, The House of Doors involves race, gender, sexuality and power and deeply involves the nature of love and friendship.

I'd missed something obvious, in over thirty years of reading and two thousand science fiction books: there was no place stranger than here. powers' last novel, The Overstory, was met with such across-the-board praise, such reverence, that it's almost shocking how poorly this one has been received. i get why people dislike it—the trump/greta thunberg stuff is kludgy, the planetary bedtime stories are distracting, and robin is wicked annoying. Don't worry, Dad. We might not figure it out. But Earth will. oh, brother. and yet. the way this book encapsulated all the feels of the nowtimes, distilling the zeitgeist of our collective anxiety over divisive politics and environmental collapse and humanity's uncertain future into such a compressed narrative, letting loose the whole anguished howl of it—i thought it was magnificent. quickplot: theo is an astrobiologist and recent widower challenged by his new role as sole caregiver to his nine-year-old son robin; a sensitive precocious child with an undiagnosed (or overdiagnosed) behavioral disorder: ...the votes are two Asperger’s, one probable OCD and one possible ADHD. for his part, robin is coping with his grief over the death of his environmental activist mother aly by embracing her causes, channeling his impotent rage into advocacy for the animals and ecosystems endangered by generations of careless human activity. it would be facile and cheesy to say that although robin couldn't save his own mother, he could try to save mother earth, but i'm a facile and cheesy kind of gal. feel free to toss an "oh, brother" eyeroll my way. after robin has another violent outburst at school, theo ignores the numerous recommendations that he be on medication and instead pulls him out of school altogether. theo's a little out of his depth—he had always been a hesitant parent, letting aly take the lead—and robin's unpredictable mood-swinging grief-rages require a patient and unconventional approach. theo devotes himself to the task of becoming a father-teacher—putting his own career on the back burner in order to be present for robin, nurturing his passions by tailoring projects and assignments to his particular interests, whipping up a million vegan meals and snacks and cobbling together an educational pupu platter of good intentions, book learning, and life lessons. a bright, sensitive boy majoring in how effed the planet is—what could go wrong? it's a tricky situation, yeah?; educating children about How Things Are—torn between protecting their innocence or telling them the truth. theo always opts for honesty, for scientific facts, never talking down to robin even when the answers are intellectually or emotionally beyond the scope of what a nine-year-old can digest. in a locked-down 2020 world, where parents were suddenly quarantined with their kids ALL DAY LONG, often thrust unprepared into homeschooling situations, when the news was filled with horrors impossible to explain to young kids, how do you as a parent navigate any of that? it was a common theme permeating the 2020&etc. experience—hand-wringing anxiety about the hubristic audacity of having children; of bringing a life into this falling-apart world, concerns about children growing up traumatized by media informing them that the future of the planet is all downhill from here. How did real teachers handle this? How did they manage field trips down that river without faking the data or ignoring the obvious? The world had become something no schoolchild should be allowed to discover. still, theo and robin are managing, in their father-and-son-and-grief-makes-three way, but when an opportunity to treat robin with an experimental neurofeedback procedure that synthesizes (probably the wrong word, but whatever—science is hard), robin's brain with recordings made of aly's brain, theo is intrigued and agrees to give it a shot. robin's demeanor changes drastically following these training sessions; he is calmer, happier, and more self-possessed. but also—maybe—a little bit possessed by aly's brain-essence infusion, bringing her back to life, in a way, by exhibiting some eerily familiar mannerisms, by saying things—knowing things—he couldn't possibly know. it's a beautiful, painful, and spooky situation. and then a lot of other stuff happens and some of it is great and some of it is cloying. it's a relatively short, fast-paced book, and when it's on, it's a wonder: joy and hope and awe and grief and rage and betrayal and dread, the whole mess of life experienced by and passed between a father and a son against the incomprehensible world. (for a thematic bleakfest, double-bill this one with The Road). the ending is effective, equal parts shocking and inevitable. EDIT: i just read sarah pinsker's short story A Better Way of Saying: A Tor.com Original (read it for yourself here), which references that strange moment in a disaster where everything feels at once preventable and inevitable, and that description is a pretty apt summation of what transpires. it's not a perfect book, but there's a lot to admire, and months after reading it, i am still sitting here admiring it. ************************************************ heart and brain too overloaded by this right now. will review when i'm down to a simmer. come to my blog!

Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2021 Nominated for the National Book Award 2021 Aaah, this is a tough one: I have to admit that I found this novel incredibly affecting and emotionally disturbing, but I'm not sure whether Powers intended readers to accept the actions of the main character, Theo, uncritically - if so (and that's how many seem to have interpreted the book), that's a problem. The story is told from Theo's point of view, a grieving astrobiologist who recently lost his wife and who is now trying to raise his (at the beginning) seven-year-old son Robin by himself. Robin is deeply traumatized because he has lost his mother and then, shortly after, his dog, he shows severe behavioral problems, but finds purpose in following in his mother's footsteps: She was a lawyer for an NGO aiming to protect the environment. Now Robin wants to help endangered animals, and the state of the natural world becomes new fuel for his depression... So after The Overstory, Powers is back at ecofiction, but he gives it a new, painful twist: He shows us a young boy who does not have a defence mechanism to deal with the impending environmental catastrophe- and the author basically asks: Isn't he, like Greta Thunberg (who is autistic and features in a very thin disguise), the sane one, aren't the people who perceive his behavior as a problem emotionally stunted and denying reality? There is also an important storyline that introduces a new neuroscientific training method to learn empathy, there is a Donald-Trump-character trying to destroy scientific research that challenges his beliefs, there is lots of astrophysics and astrobiology, hiking, birding, camping. But it all comes together pretty nicely - the dense story is well-paced and well-composed. But I think it's important to note that Theo is right when he says that his parenting abilities are flawed (like everyone's are to some degree, btw); e.g., the politician at the Capitol is right that he should connect Robin with other children/teenagers who fight for the environment, and he is also unfairly sceptical regading the intentions of childcare professionals: Would they really all go into the field if they generally perceived troubled children as administrative problems that need to be on psychoactive drugs? Granted, I think I would be terrified if a medical professional told me that my child needs medication for their mental health, and I would feel helpless because I would take into consideration that I maybe NOT the best person to judge this (unlike Theo), but would I assume that everyone is out there to harm my child to make their own lives easier? No. So I have to give this four stars because it really, really rattled me, which is what literature should do, but it's also sometimes a little simplistic and, dare I say, manipulative as it very effectively connects the loss of the mother to the loss of mother nature: The huge impact this move achives glosses over the more questionable parts. Nevertheless, I greatly enjoyed reading this little pageturner.

Richard Powers is an interesting writer. I had quite an adventure with him in The Overstory. My review is here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show.... I didn’t take my experience with that book lightly. I actually took a year to read that book. Still…I have tremendous respect for his views. I believe in his environmental mission. Because for the most part, this seems to be his quest. In “The Overstory” it was about trees. With this story it seems to be about the natural world. This is a tale of loss. Humans and the devastating toll of environmental catastrophes. But…Mostly the focus is on a father and a son. He will focus on endangered species – including humans, but you can tell with this author, that he is concerned about the future of our planet. This is a story about Theo and Robin Byrne, a grieving widowed father and his sensitive 9-year-old son. Theo is an astrobiologist who seeks signs of life in the universe, on a camping trip in the Smoky Mountains with his son. This is where he had honeymooned with his late wife, Alyssa, who died 2 years earlier in a car crash. This is also hopefully going to help Robin after an unfortunate incident that occurred in his 3rd grade classroom. What readers come to learn is that Robin has some anger issues, and he has been diagnosed with possible autism spectrum disorder, ADHD, and OCD. This is a tall dis-order for a 9-year-old. Theo doesn’t accept any of this, and has no interest in adding his child to the many who are on psychoactive drugs. He writes: “Oddly, there’s no name in the DSM for the compulsion to diagnose people.” What is the meaning behind the title of Bewilderment? As we get more into the story, it can only mean confusion and bafflement. And, to get away from it, is to escape into the wild. This is exactly his point for his characters. To find temporary solace. This was a gloriously short book, less than 300 pages, a little over 250 pages. In these pages the author captured nature with colorful words and vibrant colors. He wants us to appreciate the natural world. He wants us to see it in all its vibrancy. But…There are those moments when the author gets scientific with his characters – like when Theo wants to use experimental behavioral treatment on Robin to help alter his behaviors. A bit weird when that occurred. And…There is a political tone, where the author seems to paint a scathing, dystopic portrait of a country losing its way, an anti-science government. He writes… “Earth had two kinds of people: those who could do the math and follow the science, and those who were happier with their own truths. But in our hearts’ daily practice…we all lived as if tomorrow would be a clone of now.” Still…The author raises bold questions, but at the same time he gives us a dark ending. Bottom line… This will be a different kind of book, one that certainly will elicit much discussion.

A few days after finishing Bewilderment and I shake my head to clear the fog. What just happened here? Theo Byrne and his highly-sensitive and precocious son, Robin, exist in a world that is quickly fragmenting and rending apart. This is an Earth reminiscent of our own, but slightly ahead in time. Climate disasters and wars on an epic scale rage across the planet. A Trumpian U.S. president has assumed dictatorial powers and it's no longer safe to criticize his regime even in the privacy of one's home: you never know who may be listening. But in Madison, Wisconsin, where Theo teaches astrobiology at the University and nine-year-old Robin is learning to navigate an unforgiving society, father and son are able to mostly shut out the madness and exist in their cocoon of home and school. Perhaps it is their shared grief, too, that blunts reality. Alyssa Byrne, wife, mother and animal rights activist, died in a car accident several years before. Theo struggles alone to manage the demands of his academic career and a son who is bullied at school and is prone to fits of rage. They both miss Alyssa desperately and memories of her flit in and out of the pages like a rare butterfly. Theo's stock and trade is the possibility of life on other planets and the narrative is peppered with worlds that he seeks and shares with Robin, conjured out of the combination of gasses necessary to support plant and sentient life. Perhaps it is this inherent belief in exploration and imagination that make him open to a new neurofeedback therapy which imprints one person's brain activity — and their emotions — onto another's. In Theo's desperation to heal his son’s rage and sadness without the use of prescription drugs, he agrees to enroll Robin in this experimental treatment, led by an old boyfriend of Alyssa's. The brain waves Robin learns to imitate are his deceased mother's, who was a joyful angel, beloved by all creatures. Like Charlie in Flowers for Algernon, which inspired this novel, Robin's transformation is swift and stunning. Over the course of a year, the sullen and uncommunicative child beset by anger becomes an articulate and happy boy, curious and loving, nearly zen-like in his appreciation of the world. He is also now homeschooled by Theo, who is in danger of tanking his academic career and losing the tenuous funding of Earthlike Planet Seeker, the instrument he helped develop which could find life on other planets. Theo is also obsessed with Robin's new relationship with his dead mother. The possibility of not just sharing her positive spirit but her memories begins to dawn on Theo, even as he learns that Alyssa's relationship with the lead researcher of the project may not have been completely in the past. When Robin's miraculous transformation hits social and traditional media, the tentative hold Theo and Robin have on their healing is threatened, as too is hope for the planet. The stakes are no longer personal. Bewilderment offers tremendous beauty and heartbreaking sadness. The father-son relationship between Theo and Robin is delicate and raw. Each is exhausted by the other, yet trying so hard to love and understand. The thin thread of hope they both cling to as Robin makes his extraordinary neurological progress is frayed by the constant dread that shadows the narrative, with its pointed and deliberate inclusion of Flowers for Algernon. If you read the book in 9th grade English like I did, you know where this is going. This is the first Richard Powers novel I've read. I was astonished by this early on, as I fell hard and fast for this poignant, swiftly engrossing story. Then, certain tendencies or themes began to needle at me. I read several glowing, mixed and panning reviews of the book after I finished and it's clear that Powers is a Big Idea writer, who weaves heavy political issues through his narratives, occasionally, as here, to the detriment of the story. It feels at times as though we are being led, forcibly, to inevitable conclusions and that to see the world otherwise is to be on the wrong side. And there is just too much of that pious black and white thinking in the world today. The truth is far more nuanced and complex. Highly recommended, all the same.

Richard Powers absconded to the old growth forests of Tennessee which prompted the fantastic, Pulitzer Prize winning Overstory. Bewilderment feels like a continuation of that book. Instead of eco-warriors, Powers resorts to the cliched trope of neurodivergent child who speaks plainly of the impending climate crisis, who sees the loss of biodiversity with stark clarity and asks “Why is it so hard for people to see what’s happening? It's easy to screw this up and in less capable hands (or through the eyes of more cynical readers) it's going to come off as cloying and sentimental. And yet I loved the fierce love Theo Byrne has for his 9 year old son Robin, and how lost he feels without his wife to help navigate his erratic rages. How doctors seek to quell his behaviour with drugs, how pediatricians are keen to place Robin on a spectrum. “I wanted to tell the man that everyone alive on this fluke little planet was on the spectrum. That’s what a spectrum is. I wanted to tell the man that life itself is a spectrum disorder, where each of us vibrated at some unique frequency in the continuous rainbow.” It's that sort of language that Powers invokes that you can either hang with or roll your eyes right into the back of your head. I thought he earned that and that Theo perfectly embodies how much you can love your child and fear, everyday, that you're doing something that's going to ruin them. What it is to wrestle with being a parent in the midst of a climate crisis and the slowly looming end of the world. That is the chewy centre of the book and rest is confection. I found the imagined extrasolar planets meandering but pretty diversions and the Decoded Neurofeedback a handy plot device to better centre Robin for the sake of moving the story forward and creating the arc of the narrative. PS. totally did not know that rock cairns were a bad thing.

If you are looking for a moderately depressing and somewhat original dystopian father-son story, then this book might be for you. I would say that it is sort of similar to last year's The Bear, but less poetic. I enjoyed it far less than I enjoyed The Overstory, and I truly do not think he deserves a second Pulitzer for this one which is truly closer to a novella than a novel. There was a nostalgic side to it that made the characters endearing, but there is also a bitter hopelessness to the story that belies the truly deep malaise that Powers feels for how we are destroying our planet. The physics and biology here are fun though.

** spoiler alert ** 5 stars for the writing and concept. This book was on the 2021 Booker Prize shortlist. It’s also Ophra’s Book Club pick of 2021. If you like science and eco-activism topics then this book is for you. This is also a book about love and devastating loss (of the natural world and of loved ones) and the relationship between a widower, who is an astrobiologist, and his 9 years old son, who is on the spectrum. I did enjoy the writing, the storyline and its structure but I wish that I could have felt some connection with the characters, specially emotionally speaking. Unfortunately I wasn’t really that engaged. I tried to pay attention to the relationship, as that was the topic that I was interested in reading and learning the most. Perhaps there was too much scientific talks, but I did feel the presence and powerful influence that the deceased wife had over the characters (and I’m not just referring to the experience that the boy was submitted to). Some reviewers complained that this book is over sentimental, but I do not agree. Some reviewers viewed this book as a political manifest and were totally against it. I did not feel that way, perhaps because I tend to disconnect my political beliefs when I’m reading a work of fiction. Many reviewers took issue with the main character’s parenting decisions, specially about refusing to medicate his 9 years old son. I’m not a father, but I was able to understand his struggles and accept his decisions (in my opinion, this is not a good reason to give this book a one star review). Some reviewers found this book to be very gloomy. It is clear that this book will not please everyone. As for me, I just wanted this book to win my heart. And that ending did it. Simply heartbreaking. I’m glad that I had the chance to read it. Book: 288 pages, 73k words. There are no chapters but lots of empty spaces between situations/scenes, which makes this book a lot shorter than 288 pages. PS. I was really curious, throughout the book, asking why the main character’s dialogues were properly quoted while the wife’s and the kid’s were differenced by font. It gave me the impression that it was all fruit of the main’s character imagination. I was, of course, wrong.

19. Bewilderment by Richard Powers published: 2021 format: 278-page hardcover acquired: December read: Apr 27 – May 1 time reading: 7:19, 1.6 mpp rating: 4 genre/style: Contemporary Fiction theme: Booker 2021 locations: Great Smoky Mountains, Madison, WI and Washington, D.C. about the author: American author from Illinois, who partially grew up in Bangkok. Born 1957. I'm finally getting back to the Booker 2021 long list. Five to go, starting with this one, and they're all short. I was really pleased at how much I enjoyed this. I think most Powers novels, including this one, get mixed responses, even from professional reviewers. I tried to go in blind, as I haven't read any Powers before... and sat uncomfortably through a start with some tropy extremes - overwhelmed single recently-widowered* father, extra-intelligent unstable difficult son in need of treatment, extra-perfect deceased wife/mom who never flagged a moment while alive, and then questionable new untried treatment nudged by a smooth-talking scientist. I wasn't crazy about this. I didn't mind the sci-fi touches, especially AI-based Decoded Network treatment (which is a real thing). Also the isolation of the dad and son leave an odd resemblance to Cormac McCarthy's [The Road], which I didn't mind. But this book really caught me. I got into it, and my anxiety ramped up as I rushed through faster. The difficult son is difficult because he has developed a deep connection into damaged state of our planet, emotionally and logically. He is only nine and later ten and doesn't have good self-control. He acts up, and then acts strange, but dad feels he can't really argue with his son because the boy is still recovering from his mother's death, as is the dad, and the boy is basically right. Our planet is doomed and humanity is pathetically helpless. Powers' gently tossing in of jealous fears over the deceased wife/mom only adds to the mood. Powers has done something with our climate anxiety and our denial and the impact, specifically, of Greta Thornburg. It worked for me and left an impression and days later I'm still worked up. And, oddly, calming down involves mainly forgetting what I was worried about. (On Litsy I wrote, "Now calming my anxiety with denial again.") A note about the ending - this is a major spoiler. Don't read unless you have read the book...even if you don't plan on reading the book: (view spoiler) Anyway, I see some of the reasons why readers like or did not like this book. I would encourage anyone interested to go ahead and try it, especially if you like a little science in your literature. *yes, that's a word

Honestly preverted and insane but Japanese translated literature always is 3.5

Shortlisted for the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation Translation Prize Longlisted for the 2025 National Book Award for Translated Literature Longlisted for the International Booker 2025 Outbursts that ran counter to society’s rules disrupted its rhythm. They startled people, in the same way that my ungainly limp did. Speaking about one’s desire to kill a foetus was of a different order of magnitude to the light- hearted dirty jokes of a 56- year- old man with a spinal cord injury. Of course, the tweetings of a hunchbacked monster would be more twisted than those of someone with a perfectly erect spine. With my eyes on the effortlessly straight spine of the young man pressing a peeled Kyoho grape into the mouth of the man who could only move from the head upwards, I snapped the backbone of the miso mackerel I’d just eaten cleanly in half with the tips of my chopstick. Hunchback is Polly Barton's translation of the novella ハンチバック (a phonetic rendition of Hunchback) by 市川沙央 (Saou Ichikawa). The original won the 169th edition of the prestigious Akutagawa Prize in January 2023, one of the judges saying (as translated by the media) that "she critically dismantled social norms and etiquette through the use of the protagonist's difficulties" and another that it "critically knocks down conventional wisdom and common sense centered on able-bodied people", and the author questioning why it had taken so long for a person with a disability to win the prize. This is a compact but powerful and provocative work, which the author has said is 30% based on her own experiences, but primarily fictional. There's a good take, based on the Japanese original but from a blog written in English, here. The narrator, Shaka Izawa, is in her early 40s (born in 1979, the novel is set in the early post-pandemic period). She suffers from a severe congenital myopathy, with severe S-shaped spinal curvature that leaves her with difficulties breathing. From a wealthy family (and conscious of that element of privilege) she lives in a care home which her parents created and bequeathed to her, which also caters for other patients. Largely confined to her room and the home, she occupies her spare time with online studies (which enables the narrative to include various references to the literature on disability) but also with writing erotic fiction and (fictionalised) reportage, although she donates the money earned, which she doesn't need, to charity, all done under various alises: These were the kinds of thoughts that pervaded my brain, whether or not it was experiencing an oxygen shortage. Yet in my daily life, I passed for the young, silent, serious disabled woman Shaka Izawa. That was why I kept on releasing into the world all those vulgar, immature, unreasonable thoughts via my Buddha and Śākya accounts. Those words were born from the slimy, gunky sludge of the swamp, the mud out of which the lotus flowers grew. Without mud, the lotus could not survive. Two pieces of her erotic writing, the first where she reports (as a man) on a visit to a swinger's club, bookend the story. She also, under her own identity, sends provocative tweets, notably one which, after a thread discussing how she could conceive, even if she could not carry to term: My ultimate dream is to get pregnant and have an abortion, just like a normal woman. She sees this as reversing both the issues handicapped people in Japan have had getting reproductive rights, and recognising the activists, such as Tomoko Yonezu and Yūho Asaka who fought for it, but also the casualness with which people abort foetuses seen as abnormal: What emerged from this was the foundation of the reproductive rights of disabled women, and Yūho Asaka’s Cairo speech, where she proclaimed that the state was robbing disabled people of their right to have children. In 1996, the law was finally amended to acknowledge that disabled people could also reproduce, but the developments in reproductive technology and its commodification have seen the killing of disabled children become a relatively casual undertaking for most couples. In time, it will doubtless become even cheaper, even less of an event. Given that, it wouldn’t matter if a disabled person tried to get pregnant specifically to have an abortion, right? Wouldn’t that finally balance the scales? Another topic about which the narrator (and the author) is passionate, is ableism in the literary world, even in the very act of reading, where for her the very act of reading a physical book is literally suffocating: Holding in both hands an open book three or four centimetres in thickness took a greater toll on my back than any other activity. Being able to see; being able to hold a book; being able to turn its pages; being able to maintain a reading posture; being able to go to a bookshop to buy a book – I loathed the exclusionary machismo of book culture that demanded that its participants meet these five criteria of able- bodiedness. I loathed, too, the ignorant arrogance of all those self-professed book-lovers so oblivious to their privilege. [...] Here was I, feeling my spine being crushed a little more with every book that I read, while all those e- book- hating able- bodied people who went on and on about how they loved the smell of physical books, or the feel of the turning pages beneath their fingers, persisted in their state of happy oblivion. [...] The publishing industry is rife with ableist machismo. The world of sports, which all those literary types who play up their physical weakness display so much vitriol for, has in fact done far better at affording a space in its corner for those with disabilities. Which makes for an interesting contrast with the also Booker longlisted Hunchback whose antiquarian book dealer narrator won't buy a book until she's physically held it in her hands: I very quickly developed a certain instinct for the books, a feel for the paper, an eye for the quality of the printing, for a well-crafted binding. I don’t know what it is, but it’s almost physical, like an inchworm testing whether a leaf is worth creeping across, or a bird listening to insects moving in the bark of a tree. It might be a detail: the sound when you flick through the pages, the feel of the lettering, the depth of the imprint, the saturation of the colors in an illustration, the precision of the details in a plate, the hues of the edges. This is not a book for the faint-hearted. Many of us will be, rightly, skewered in our 'happy oblivion' to our able-bodied privilege; the narrator describes the mechanical processes and struggles simply to stay alive matter-of-factly but unsparingly, such as the constant need to suck out phlegm from her respiratory system; and the novel is sexually explicit, the last two coming together in one memorable scene , where she pays her male carer to have sex with her in pursuit of her 'dream' but first insists on performing oral sex on him. She finds the act itself straightforward, as she notes that, have a tracheotomy, she doesn't actually use her mouth or nose to breathe, but then nearly chokes to death on his semen which enters her lungs and hospitalises her. But it's a book that needs to be read. I would say a strong International Booker contender, but I wonder if it will be deemed too short (stoppress: fortunately these judges appreciate short books!) Thanks to the publisher via Netgalley for the ARC The judges' take Who is permitted to feel – and be – desired? Saou Ichikawa’s short, razor-sharp novel – exquisitely distilled into English by Polly Barton – features a protagonist with disabilities who lives in a care home near Tokyo. Born with a congenital muscle disorder, Shaka Isawa has severe spinal curvature, and uses an electric wheelchair and ventilator. She is, as the cool kids would say, ‘very online’ – tweeting passionately and posting erotic stories – and her anxieties range from the existential to the sexual. A provocative and powerful indictment of ableism and sexism, this unapologetic, unashamed and unflinching novel defiantly dismantles societal and moral assumptions about disability as it leans into pleasures of the body. In around a hundred pages, Hunchback grips the reader with its raw, fizzing, subversive energy, even as it shakes off shackles — both physical and mental. A book that moved and thrilled us.

Mischief, bite, and unrepentant humor. Longlisted for the International Booker prize, 2025. A woman with severe disabilities records her observations of the world around her, and chooses autonomy no matter the cost. Her autonomy has a mischievous flavor and I think that's partly due to the fact that she has caregivers and does not have any sense of her own personal privacy. This is also about power and how people with disabilities relate to power in the world. Her ability to exert her power in the world is limited by the world, so she learns to be creative in her mischievousness to survive. The subject matter is provocative, unapologetically so. When addressing autonomy for people with disabilities I think it is important to provoke to get people to think outside of themselves and consider people with disabilities, not just for their perspectives, but as individual and whole beings with their own sense of Self. This short story won't be for everyone, trigger warnings are below. This made me uncomfortable, and it will stick with me. I'll be thinking about it for a long time. tw: sex-work, abortion

Such an interesting Japanese novella. Ichikawa takes many popular elements and tropes from Japanese fiction and presents them through a very uncommon protagonist, Shaka, a middle aged disabled woman. This is a bold book that is willing to dive into the grotesque and the titillating to force you to see Shaka not just as a human being but as a person who is capable of difficult and uncomfortable acts and thoughts and desires. Writing about disabled characters is still so limited in the US, there is little to compare this book to. I thought of Greenwell's Small Rain several times, because this book is also very committed to detailing the minute acts of the body and what it requires. Ichikawa does not want to hide or obscure Shaka's body and what it requires, she is not trying to present Shaka as somehow more than or better than her body. She is matter-of-fact, which is its own form of rebellion.

Short book I think I'd like to reread. There aren't enough books out there by and/or about the disabled community. So that's one reason I'd like to reread it, but also, it's unexpected. Shaka has myotubular myopathy, a severe congenital muscular disease that causes a lot of atrophy, making muscles very weak and breathing difficult. She is unapologetic and wants to live the way she wants to live and live the life she wants to live. Her outlook is a bit wild, and she feels like she's entitled to all the things in life other people get to have - like a child. Ableism is something that would prevent most people would never think someone with her disabilities would/could/should even conceive a thought about. Shaka is "lucky" to be living in group home. I say lucky, because ableism is so prevalent in Japanese culture (many parts of Asia - maybe even all) that the disabled are often hidden from society, and resources, especially good ones, never mind really good ones, are generally hard to find. In this case, she lives in California in a group home that she owns - that she inherited, a home that was created for her by her parents. So yeah, she's quite lucky. Yet, her life feels incomplete, and due to COVID, she's further isolated. Her life is largely online (ok, so that was true for most of us during COVID, but it's intensified). The reader is never allowed to think that her disability is complete, though. While her body may be compromised, her mind is ever sharp, as is her libido. Her privilege can only take her so far, but she takes it as far as she can. Seeing her exercise some of her power is good to read, even if the lengths she'll go to are unorthodox. However, perhaps they need to be since more conventional methods are unavailable to her. This book made me think of my perspectives and broadened my outlook. I hope it will for others as well.

If you saw this on my tbr for Japanuary, no you didn't. I don't know why I make tbrs. I rarely follow them. I'd say hold me accountable, but my Taurus ass hates that. I wasn't quite sure what I was expecting from this one, but I think I loved it. Translated Japanese literature is always hit or miss for me, and while the general complaint is that it feels cold, I get it. Or, I get this. Shaka, and the author, are disabled. You know I love an own voices story. But don't feel bad for Shaka. She has a lot of things going on in that head of hers. The first 9% was wild. The 78% mark was wild. It's sexual. It's weird. I don't want to spoil it. Maybe go in blind. Sometimes that's best. 📱 Thank you to NetGalley and Hogarth

Hunchback by Saou Ichikawa follows Shaka, a disabled woman living in a full-time care facility in Japan, on a journey towards self-determination however she can get it. Already well into adulthood and feeling frustrated with her lack of life-experience, Shaka pursues a bold plan to feel more like the woman she wants to be. An enjoyable read, Hunchback is as frank and hilarious as its main character and has a lot to teach readers about the realities of disabled life.- Ysabella G.

This was way too short, but oh so funny and oh so important of a book. There were times where it felt like you could feel the author's anger coming through in the writing. But I felt like she reigned it in enough so it wasn't like a crazy person rant going on. (And I'm a verifiable crazy person, so I can say that.) A beautiful, funny, perverse, gross (yes gross) and sharp-witted view through a peephole of the life of a disabled woman living in Japan. We look at desire, privilege, anger and the day to day obstacles that she faces. The book takes a hard look at what it takes just to live a single day in the life of Shaka, our main character. It is a heavy burden, and no easy feat. Would you be able to do it? I honestly don't know if I could. One likes to think they could, but living with physical disabilities day in and day out when your mind is fully intact - it has to be a strain on the mental health. It has to be. The author makes you uncomfortable. You squirm. You writhe in your seat. If you're like me, you screw up your face and wince during some of the scenes where she's describing certain bodily functions involving her tracheostomy. I have a serious squeamishness and fear centered around choking and not being able to breath, so this was a little anxiety inducing for me to read. I may have done a little disassociating during some of those really squeamish parts. Not gonna lie. Had to get through it. And I did and it was worth it! What a fabulous debut by this disabled author. She hits all the buttons. I really do wish it was longer. At the same time, I think she said everything that needed to be said. This is one I will probably re-read in the future. So sharp. Stick me with the needle.

On the 26th of July 2016, a man named Uematsu Satoshi, broke into a care facility near Tokyo and started attacking disabled people, resulting in 19 people being killed and then another 26 being injured. Even though this was one of the deadliest attacks in Japan, the media cover was not as impressive as it should be, raising questions about whether we, as society, consider the life of people with disabilities of lesser value and triggered reactions of disability activists. “Hunchback” by Saou Ichikawa, deals with the sensitive issue of discrimination of disabled people and exposes attitudes that are not only relevant in Japan but the greater world. The book describes in less than 100 pages, the life of a 40 year old woman, named Shaka, who is diagnosed early in her life with a neuromuscular disorder and lives in a facility for people with disabilities that she inherited from her rich parents. Shaka is severely deformed and in need of respiratory support in order to be able to survive, but at the same time she lives a whole different life online tweeting controversial opinions and writing sex stories on an erotica website. At some point one of her carers discovers her hidden identity and the book has an interesting turn related to power dynamics with an ending that left me puzzled and confused (I like an ambiguous ending but this was so open to interpretation that potentially was too much for me). The writing is simple but the sharp prose and the graphic descriptions make the experience shocking and uncomfortable (positively shocking and uncomfortable). This is definitely a book worth reading but I felt that even though the author delivers significant messages I needed a lengthier approach in order to be more engaged. This is a book about living as a disabled person. About all those times we said I’d rather die than live disabled. The attitude of society towards disabled people and the idea that they don’t contribute to the society as much as those who are healthy. Reproductive rights or the right to abortion in view of disability. Accessibility and disability activism. A story about our perception of health and what is normal. The privilege of being healthy and having a body that society approves of. The difficulty of being bed bound, on respiratory support, having deformities and the gendered experience of medical care. A book about the anonymity of internet. Living behind the screen of a computer and pretending to be someone else while expressing extreme views. It is also a book about power dynamics, money and balance. Irritation and contempt. Getting control of someone else that seems vulnerable. About sex clubs, dating apps, the hook up culture and erotic fiction. The darkness we hide inside. Mutual understanding between the disadvantaged. Clinging to life with all the strength that you have and appreciating the things you are grateful for. This is a 3.5-4/5 for me! Why should you read “Hunchback”? Because you will acknowledge the difficulties of living with a chronic disease and feel that being healthy is a luxury not everyone has. Because you will get a glimpse of how it is to live a life knowing that you are in constant danger of dying. Because you will realise that internet and media might give to someone who is silent the opportunity of a new different self that is loud and intense. Because you will accept that wanting something is normal even if you know you will be never able to get it. Because you will realise that, unlike what society believes, disabled people have the same desires we all have. Because you will understand that human beings can always find a means of surviving. Favourite quotes: “I’m a 165 cm woman born to tall, attractive parents with platinum credit cards. If I wasn’t disabled, the world would have been my oyster… whatever that means”. “To live, my body breaks”.

Well done to Ichikawa for the way she gets ger message across: in-your-face so you can't look away. She describes in detail what it means to live with a severe handicap (the main character has myotubular myopathy meaning that underdeveloped muscles prevented heart and lungs from maintaining gooe oxygen saturation), and does not shy away from everything this implies (from something as simple as reading a physical book to the practical difficulties of changing equipment to something as exhausting as sex). It is a bit extreme and graphic in places and may be a bit too much for some readers. At times I found myself preferring to take a break, but the objective is clear and convincing: more attention is needed for the plight of the disabled. Ichikawa is very critical of Japan, but surely it applies to most countries. I am in need of an explanation of the ending though... 3,5 and many thanks for the ARC to Penguin Random House.

this took me less than an hour to read. i wanted moreeeee

Very provocative and engaging novella, written with so much authenticity. Read in (almost) one sitting and it was such a layered and sincere perspective on disability, sexuality, and ableism in Japan!

Ok, objectively it's worth a 4, so let's go for 4.5. Not everyone will like it. It's completely twisted, awkward. The author shares her frustration, her most twisted thoughts. It's raw, funny at times. I will remember it.

More stories like this should be told. Difficult to face, but necessary.

hunchback is the kind of book that feels small on the surface and then expands into something deeply unsettling, sharp, and impossible to ignore. on paper, it follows shaka, a disabled woman living in a care home, spending her days writing erotic fiction, tweeting provocative thoughts, and navigating the physical realities of her body. but very quickly, it becomes clear that this isn’t just a story about isolation - it’s about desire, power, and the ways disabled bodies are controlled, silenced, and misunderstood. what makes this book hit so hard is shaka’s voice. she’s blunt, darkly funny, confrontational, and completely unwilling to make herself palatable. she refuses the expectation that disabled people should be quiet, grateful, or desexualized. instead, she leans directly into discomfort - saying the things people don’t want to hear, wanting the things she’s not “supposed” to want. and that tension — between what she is allowed to be and what she actually desires - drives the entire novel. the physicality of the writing is also striking. ichikawa doesn’t let you forget shaka’s body. every movement, every breath, every adjustment is deliberate, slow, and necessary. it forces you to sit with a body that doesn’t move easily through the world, and at the same time, a mind that is sharp, restless, and deeply alive. that contrast — between physical limitation and expansive inner life - is where so much of the book’s power comes from. what really lingers, though, is how hunchback challenges the idea of what counts as a “normal” human experience. shaka’s desire - to have sex, to get pregnant, to have an abortion - isn’t framed as shocking because of what it is, but because of who she is. the discomfort comes from the reader’s assumptions, not from the desire itself. and the book doesn’t resolve that discomfort neatly. instead, it pushes it further, asking who gets to decide what a body is worth, what kind of life is livable, and what kind of desire is acceptable. there’s also an undercurrent of power running through everything - money, care, dependence, exploitation. shaka is both privileged and deeply vulnerable, and the relationship dynamics in the book reflect that tension in unsettling ways. nothing feels clean or fully resolved, especially as the narrative fractures toward the end, leaving you questioning what is real, what is imagined, and what it even means to be “seen” by others. it’s a strange, uncomfortable, and at times darkly funny read. not particularly long, but heavy in the way it stays with you. hunchback doesn’t try to make itself easy or reassuring - it just insists on being heard.

3.75/5 Rounded up I decided to reread this after reading it initially to really form my thoughts around this. I would like to start off by saying, after reading some reviews, the people complaining that there's sexual content in this book .... be so for real right now ... Okay even though this is very short it manages to convey the importance of giving disabled people a voice. I felt this did a great job of dispelling the myth that disabled people cannot be sexual beings; that they don't have similar wishes and desires simply because the populace finds it easier to ignore them. Also just the very small things that are taken for granted by able bodied people like being able to read a physical book comfortably. I just wish that this was actually longer and that we had gotten to know Shaka much better. I felt she had a really interesting voice and reading her erotica was really interesting. This is not rated higher also because I do feel like some things still went over my head and I would really like to revisit this book later maybe towards the end of the year.

An in your face, don’t look away, novella that packs a punch. Absolutely loved the ending, but this almost felt like the beginning of the story. However, I think that makes it more subversive and maybe makes it stand out more? I’m conflicted on the length. There’s a lot going on here and I’ll be thinking on it longer than it took me to read it. Not a book for everyone but undoubtedly an interesting read.

Thank you, GR friends who encouraged me, to read “Boulder” by Eva Baltasar, translated beautifully by Julia Sanches. Baltasar is poetic in her prose, and Sanches was able to translate her poetic feelings, thoughts, and observations. Translators don’t get enough accolades for their brilliant work. Our “sort-of” unnamed narrator is nicknamed Boulder by her lover, Samsa. Boulder is a no-nonsense cook on a merchant ship. She requires very little, just great sex and smokes. Samsa is approaching 40, and her biological clock is ticking. Boulder doesn’t possess that clock and is mystified as to Samsa’s obsession. Samsa moves them to an apartment in Reykjavik Iceland; she works 10 hours a day leaving Boulder rudderless. The women have been together for eight years, and Boulder is afraid of losing Samsa. What I enjoyed was Boulder’s musings on being a parent. Her ambivalence at first, and then downright animosity towards being a mother was written well. Author Baltasar brilliantly pens a story of a person who struggles with becoming a parent yet wanting to maintain a romantic/sexual relationship. Boulder’s conflicted feelings burned off the page. Boulder’s need for freedom complicates her need for human contact. She is afraid to lose Samsa. When Samsa embraces her changing body and pregnancy, Boulder becomes even more confused. What’s a girl to do? She hits the local pub where she drinks away her sorrows with Brennivin, her drinking buddy. This is an interesting study of an “alternative” look at motherhood. Boulder’s version of motherhood is a bit different than most, but her love for her child is strong, just different. Can a person be a wonderer, and explorer, and still be a parent? Baltasar explores motherhood with a very interesting protagonist.

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2023 Catalan poet Eva Baltasar writes about a woman who, as the title not so subtly suggests, resembles a rock: Working as a cook on a merchant ship off the Chilean coast, she leads an independent, self-reliant, but also quite self-enclosed existence. Enjoying her freedom and solitude, she travels between islands and land, until she falls in love with Samsa, a Scandinavian geologist who works for an oil company and affectionately calls her new lover Boulder, "like those large, solitary rocks (...) isolated and exposed to every element.". The newly re-named protagonist follows Samsa to Reykjavik, where her love for Samsa competes with feelings of suffocation that come with living a middle class life in an apartment at the outskirts of town. Seven years later, the passion wanes, which coincides with Samsa, now nearing 40, wanting to be a mother. Our narrator has no interest in holding such a role, but agrees. The metamorphosis of Samsa (Franz Kafka, ya know?) from lover to mother evokes complicated feelings in our narrator, and this is what sets this text apart: Baltasar masterfully shows how Boulder oscillates between self-sufficiency and the desire for intimacy and connection, and how the lovers grow apart prompted by the primal experience of motherhood. Feeling cut off from Samsa and Tinna, the child, Boulder doesn't feel free and unattached, but lonely and exiled. The lyrical language expertly depicts the emotions felt by the complex narrator, who is not written to be sympathetic (generally an idiotic category in fiction), but to be authentic. The book is the second part in a trilogy about female lives, written by a female and told by a female narrator. Baltasar is great at writing unruly, messy women, and I guess I need to read the other two parts as well.

3.5 A solitary, chain smoking woman who works as a cook on a merchant ship, falls in love immediately with Samsa when she meets her at a port along the way. She abandons life at sea to live with Samsa (who has nicknamed her Boulder) in a pretty, little yellow house They are quite happy for about eight years until Samsa wants a baby.. Then Boulder sees that three is a crowd as Samsa loses interest in her. It’s quite a sad story really.

Shortlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize She doesn’t like my name, and gives me a new one. She says I’m like those large, solitary rocks in Southern Patagonia, pieces of world left over after creation, isolated and exposed to every element. No one knows where they came from. Not even they understand how they are still standing. Boulder is Julia Sanches’s translation of Eva Baltasar’s Catalan original of the same name, and the second in a triptych (rather than a trilogy) of novels, the third part of which Mamut was published in 2022 in the original and presumably will be out in English in 2023-. The first novel was Permagel, translated by Sanches: my review. Both books are published by the wonderful small press And Other Stories, who pioneered the subscription model in the UK: And Other Stories publishes some of the best in contemporary writing, including many translations. We aim to push people’s reading limits and help them discover authors of adventurous and inspiring writing. Boulder opens on a dock in Quellón, a city in Chiloé Island in Chile. Our narrator, whose real name we never learn, has travelled from her native Barcelona to the area, searching not so much for something as for nothing: I’d gone through life fixated on an intangible conviction, tied down by the handful of things that kept me from becoming penniless, an outcast. I needed to face the emptiness, an emptiness I had dreamed of so often I’d turned it into a mast, a centre of gravity to hold onto when life fell to pieces around me. I’d come from nothing, polluted, and yearned for windswept lands. On the island she had worked, as she had in Spain, as a cook, here for 3 months in summer camps for teenagers: I’m not a chef, I’m just a mess-hall cook, capable and self- taught. The thing I most enjoy about my job is handling food while it’s still whole, when some part of it still speaks of its place in the world, its point of origin, the zone of exclusion that all creatures need in order to thrive. Water, earth, lungs. The perfect conditions for silence. Food comes to us wrapped in skin, and to prepare it you need a knife. If I’ve got one skill in the kitchen, it’s carving things up. The rest is hardly an art. Seasoning, tossing things together, applying heat . . . Your hands end up doing it all on their own. I’ve worked at schools, nursing homes, in a prison. Each job only lasts a few weeks, they slip away from me, spots of grease that I gradually scrub off. The last boss I had before coming to Chiloé tried to give me an explanation: the problem isn’t the food, it’s you. Kitchens require team effort. I’d have to find a really small one if I wanted to work on my own and still make a living. She boards a freight ship, originally paying for passage, but persuades the captain to keep her on as ship’s cook, in return for room and board, a job she serves at for a few years, and describes as the best she has ever had due to the simplicity of the kitchen, where she works alone, and the lack of complications and obligations, with the ship’s crew friendly but not inquiring: They relax and watch me work and tell me about their grandmothers – all experts in the kitchen, all queens of humitas and empanadas. The second mate reads out the recipe to me. Humitas are out of the question, but I develop an interest in empanadas. They’re practical and everyone likes them, even though the meat I use is tinned and the olives need more brine. I start the dough in the evenings and let it rise all night. I like to get under the covers knowing that out there another covered body lies awake, working on my behalf. In the morning I’m amazed by how much it’s risen, as if the whole thing – the soft, perfect dome of wheat and its nest-bowl of warmth – were a distant nephew who’s grown up, effortlessly and all of a sudden, in the silence of my absence. I knead the bread, dust it with flour, shape it and take its shape, and imagine I am a simpleminded god about to beget a new tribe. Anything not to feel the hips, the ass, the breasts, the perfect flesh of a woman beneath my hands. But her desire for companionship remains and on one onshore visit in Chaitén she meets Samsa, a Scandinavian geologist who makes her living from a multinational with blood on its hands.. The two begin an itinerant relationship whenever their respective schedules coincide and Samsa christens her Boulder as per the opening quote. But then after many months Samsa announces she has accepted a new job in Reykjavik and asks Boulder to move there with her, who accepts. The beauty of the writing in this novel is that all the above, written in rich prose, takes place on just 15 pages. In Iceland, Samsa works for an oil company (the destruction of nature in which she participates an interesting but purely implicit subtext to the story) and Boulder finds work, first in a pub kitchen and later sets up her own food truck selling her signature empanadas in Parliament Square. But one day, after almost a decade together, and with Samsa approaching 40, their life together is disrupted when Samsa announces she wants a child, an announcement which destroys the peace that Boulder enjoys: The first person who had the idea of building a pyramid must have been insane. What about the guy who thought it made sense to stick someone in a rocket and shoot them at the stars? Samsa is crazier than the two of them put together. ... It seems unbelievable that a single decision, a fucking intangible thought, could so violently upset the flesh-and-bone scaffolding of daily life, the steady rhythm of the hours, the predictable, material colour of the landscapes that gives us nourishment and company. The decision precedes a living thing that already exists and takes over everything. Its presence has dimension; it occupies the house with concrete tentacles and sinks into the skulls of the people who live there, and clings to the fine membrane that sheathes their grey matter. Boulder's rather hysterical, but blackly humorous, reaction continues during the IVF treatment, administered by the high priests of the holy church of insemination, who are ever so wise and down to earth, who are ever so pure, when Samsa falls pregnant (the tyrannical, still-brainless thing inside her, which robs her of all reason while at the same time branding a lessons of undying allegiance onto the hungry, pliant walls of her uterus), through maternity classes (a bit like ultrasound appointments: they generate high expectations and the results are at best confusing. You need either a hangover or an active imagination to be able to appreciate them) and post birth to Samsa's breastfeeding gang. Boulder finds herself excluded from the strong bond between Samsa and their daughter Tinna's, and seeks refuge in the pub, her food truck and eventually the arms of another woman, although her bond with Tinna, when Samsa consents to leave the two alone. A powerful, compact and beautifully written portrayal of motherhood from an atypical perspective, and a strong contender for the prize.

so so good! i didn’t know before reading this that eve baltasar was a poet, but you can really tell by her prose. definitely going to read the other books in this triptych.

A gorgeous and timely book about the obligations and societal pressures that encroach on women as they age. We follow an unnamed narrator, nicknamed Boulder, and her lover through their journey of motherhood. The tone is blunt, honest, but refreshing. Sometimes we are forced to choose between two paths we don’t want and sometimes we regret the choices we make. Boulder does an excellent job dismantling our perspectives on parenthood, particularly from the lens of queer women. As queer people, it’s easy to feel like we are “missing out” on a fundamental aspect of committed relationships. It can lead to a feeling of incompleteness or disconnect that is only resolved with introspection and the messy untangling of societal expectations versus our own desires. The plot resonated a lot with me and I appreciated the ending more than the other entries in the triptych. I’m not quite sure what this is missing to give it five stars - I think the commentary will stick with me more than the finer details of the plot or characters. I binged the entire trilogy in a weekend (which is not especially hard given their length), and I would highly encourage anyone interested in Baltasar’s work to do the same. Each protagonist offers a meaningful and nuanced view of womanhood and motherhood that work especially well in tandem.

Didn't think I was going to like this at first but loved how it descended slowly into the realm of fucked up. I found the writing really beautiful but at the same time the main character came across really flat and devoid, even when witnessing some really traumatic things right in front of her. It is a claustrophobic book about being suffocated by someone you love and learning to trust yourself rather than others. The way it was written reminded me a lot of Paradise Rot especially the sections on the boat surrounded by water. A really strange little book but I found myself really drawn into it in the end.

i love eva's writing so much

The ignorant sceptic in me approached Boulder with the assumption that it’s another short but intense novel dependent on some sort of shocking content (I have not read Permafrost so have no previous experience with the author’s work). It turned out to be short and intense for sure, but also nuanced and perceptive instead of being brutal. It made me think. And it’s a welcome change to the heterosexual narrative of getting a child. Reviews by Roman Clodia and Alwynne here on Goodreads essentially sum up my thoughts in a much more elaborate way.

A really interesting and powerful novella.

A very interesting - witty and an unconventional narration of a woman who hates being what she is. Almost a mockery to masculinity. RTC. __ Edited Review : 23/3/2023 Longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2023, this translated novel from The Catalan Language by Julia Sanches is one that may or may not be liked by everyone that came across it, but in my case - I had unexpectedly enjoyed it more than I thought I would. A witty and in a dark-humorous poetical proses, its the story of an unnamed narrator ; of her falling in love, out of love and her way living the life as a woman unconventionally. Its not something that everyone will like, but it had somewhat worked for me. Personal Ratings : 4.25🌟 "The destination always kills the journey, and if we have to reduce life to a story, it can only be a bad one." (see how I mean by the dark humour?) I feel that I didn't know I would like the book at first and even towards the end, there's a lingering feeling that made me feel like - well... thats... something....So my conclusion would be - I loved this story as equally as I disliked it. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed it more than I thought I would, but the part that made me just LOATHES the book was the extensive use of hyperbola, which sometimes gave me the icks. But then I figured - " Well damn, this author is good." Imagine having going through a few hundred pages without being able to stop to know what's happening. Its engaging in a way that questions my sense of humour, but I appreciate the author's takes on not only the toxic relationships between women , she had also explored the differences of motherhood and how that not all women were born to have motherly or womanly instincts. Its interesting how unlikeable all of the characters in here are. In fact, it got to a point that you'll just question the characters for their behaviour. However, thats what makes the book appealing in a sense. As the saying goes 'like calls to like' - and as much as the narrator is pretty much an asshole, her partner is as equally as such, and therefore we have no one but them to blame for their actions. The complexity of women and how toxic they can be with each other had been written splendidly by the author. I also loved the fact for a book that has literally no men in the plot, the voice of men are actually super loud. Even through the cover, and paired with the story, I can somehow sense that the author is also portraying the masculinity in women and how it can emasculate herself. Its a different approach but one that had made me laughed a few times at how much of a menace the main character is. Overall, this was something different for me, but definitely an interesting read. This is also my first book translated from Catalan and I can't wait to discover more literatures from languages that I'm not familiar with.

Solenoid is the highly anticipated English translation of Mircea Cărtărescu's original by the same title. Acclaimed in its original Romanian, Solenoid became a phenomenon with Marian Ochoa de Eribe's Spanish translation, followed by others. Now we have Sean Cotter's work in English, published in the US by Deep Vellum Press. It has certainly been worth the wait. Cărtărescu's hallucinatory prose lives up to the hype, the novel an ever-expanding series of fever dreams that range from the quirky to the just plain weird. Some of the passages are exquisite. The best are a blend of autofictional realism with dream logic that read like an homage to Kafka and others. I was prepared for philosophical fireworks, but the fluidity and otherworldliness of the prose stole the show. Cotter deserves a good deal of credit for that. I don't think it's quite the masterwork it's billed as, in part because the book reads like a director's cut in want of a firm edit. The length isn't a problem per se, but tightening this from almost 650 pages down to, say, 500 would have given it the focus and punch it was lacking. There were also heavy doses of misogyny and racism from the disgruntled (male) narrator, which were a major distraction. Despite these flaws, Solenoid is an unforgettable reading experience, surely the most memorable book I'll read this year.

Winner of the International Dublin Literary Award 2024 Longlisted for the 2025 International Booker Prize I don't believe in books - I believe in pages, in phrases, in lines. Solenoid is Sean Cotter’s magnificent translation of Mircea Cărtărescu 2015 novel of the same name, an impressive novel as attested to by its prize success. The novel has many strands but the highlights for me were: - the aphorisms and parables, inspired by Kafka (see below) and Borges; - the portrayal of (Communist era) Bucharest which for the narrator is both the centre of the universe (he argues that the existence of other cities may simply be fables as far as his own experience goes) and the one city he claims was designed and built already in a state of decay; - the remarkable story of the family of George Boole, the creator of Boolean algebra), which includes Mary Everest Boole, niece of George Everest, after whom the mountain is named); his daughter Ethan Lilian Voynich (author of the book, which, unknown to her, was read in millions of copies in Eastern Europe and the USSR, and married to the antiquarian book dealer from which the Voynich Manuscript takes its name); Boole’s son-in-law, married to another daughter, Charles Howard Linton, inventor of the tesseract and whose son was to invent the Jungle Gym, and granddaughter one of the few women at the Manhattan Project. I can give a deposition on my first memories, about the brother missing from them, about the moment in which my mother left me in the unlocatable hospital where I woke on an operating table, under the stars. I can talk about my incomprehensible feeling of predestination. About doctors and dentists who tortured me throughout my childhood. About the book I literally bathed in tears when I was twelve, even though I understood absolutely nothing from it: The Gadfly by Ethel Lilian Voynich. About the way I rediscovered the novel with Carbonari and Freudian conflicts much later, in the Department of Letters library. About how amazed I was when Goia told me the story of the Boole family and the mathematician's five prodigious daughters, about the chaos that the amoral, young genius, a friend of Lewis Carroll, produced in this family, unraveling its logico-mathematic geometry, exploding its Victorian principles, and infusing their thoughts with the telescopic insanity of the fourth dimension: worlds within worlds, in the depths and heights arranged in an asymptotic spiral of grandeur that the poor ganglion imprisoned in our skulls cannot comprehend. How can you not think that the series Gadfly-Boole-Hinton is a sign, a model trajectory, a map for your great escape plan? And how can you ascribe to chance the fact that Ethel eventually married the one found, after a rocambolesque, six-century adventure, by the manuscript that today bears his name: the incomprehensible, monstrous Voynich manuscript? And why are the manuscript's fat women—naked, with their pink nipples and curly hair, bathing in communicating bathtubs in a bizarre system of pipes—identical to those in Bucharest's underground passages, on the trajectory of the Floreasca militia station-the block on Stefan cel Mare- the Masina de Paine Clinic? And why, again, are Nicolae Minovici’s visions, from his controlled auto-hangings, performed over the course of decades in one of the wings of the morgue (scientific ardor? morose hedonism?) so similar to the cabalistic circles painted on the pages of the Voynich manuscript? That said it is a flawed masterpiece. Most notably it is simply too long - there are parts that would have been better cut, most notably the passages of recorded dreams from the narrator’s earlier notebooks, which added little to the text, particularly given the “real”-world of the novel already crosses, very effectively, into a Dantean dreamscape. And, the fact that, while filling 7 pages with “Help!” printed 3105 times (yes I counted) isn’t quite at Ducks Newburyport levels of tedious padding, it still is a waste of ink and paper. On which topic, it seems Snoopy had the idea first: The length is particularly striking given that the narrator of the novel sets out his manifesto for writing, using Kafka’s notebooks as an example of how it should be done: ”The master of dreams, the great Issachar, sat in front of the mirror, his spine against its surface, his head hanging far back, sunk deep into the mirror. Then Hermana appeared, master of the twilight, and she melted into Issachar's chest, until she completely disappeared." I have often wondered about the source of my aversion to the novel, why I would have looked down on myself if I had written novels, "books about," endless stories, why it is I hate Scheherazade and all her children who labor to produce narrations so we can learn morals or wile our lazy hours. Why I never wanted to write from pleasure or for pleasure. Why I don't want to draw monumental gates, or even little cat doors, on the walls of literature. Why I define myself by my illnesses and insanities, not through my books. Why I am so resentful that I was kicked out of literature. This fragment from Kafka answers all. You will not find sentences like this one in any book, because not even Kafka dared to transform them into the tiny ear bones of any narrative. They were left in the obscure pages of his journal, destined for the flames, pages that did not delectate and did not instruct, pages that did not exist but were more meaningful than all those that have ever existed. You don't need a thousand pages for a psychodrama, just five lines about Issachar and Hermana. And women in the novel seem to exist primarily as sexual objects and there are other problematic aspects from a diversity perspective (the end of the first passage quoted above is typical). It reads like a novel translated from the 1970s or perhaps 1980s, but I was surprised to see the original was actually published in 2015, although I think the novel itself is set in that earlier era (the narrator, like the author, was born in the mid 1950s). While a satisfyingly challenging read, this is a more accessible introduction to the author’s work than the hallucinatory Orbitor trilogy, of which only the first part, Blinding, has been translated into English, also by Cotter. However my favourite of his translated works to date remains Nostalgia and he is an author that I think works better as novella than at tome length. Highly worthwhile and a strong International Booker contender I suspect. [as it indeed proved!] The judges' take Solenoid is uncategorisable epic of interconnected realities, a book that seems to be about… everything. On a single page you might be flung from intimate insights into the banality of a teacher’s life to grand theoretical re-imaginings of the universe, to microscopic insights into mites, matter, love or letter-forms. It’s a mind-boggling, bravura and ceaselessly entertaining book, unlike anything else. The translation struck us as word perfect, a feat of attention to detail that transports us with total control from Communist Romania to the far sci-fi reaches of the imagination and back again.

“I was content in the living suffering of my skin, I felt I had no limits, that everything was possible, that I had encoded, there, in the curls, volutes, cups, and thorns of my tattoo, the algorithm of being and the formula of divinity.” The protagonist, a Romanian teacher and aspiring writer, chronicles his difficult childhood, his disappointing search for love, and his monotonous job. Reading about an infestation of lice and a mysterious growth from the navel, Kafka may come to mind. An influence of Borges may be evident in the surreal descriptions of Bucharest where the streets are constantly shifting, resulting in a maze-like city. There are elements of science fiction due to the many solenoids around the city which allows a person to levitate in the air. Readers may see shades of Camus and absurdist existentialism or of Márquez and magic realism. The protagonist’s journal-like entries recounts various treatments for tuberculosis, enduring torture in a dentist chair, and being forced to wear pigtails. One of these accounts was the story of the protagonist, an unsuccessful writer, meeting a famous published author. Here the reader may consider the possibility that the two men were the same person in two different timelines. In fact did not the protagonist claim he was working on a manuscript? Was it not this very book, Solenoid? Wouldn’t that mean that the protagonist was the author, Mircea Cărtărescu? “These are nodes of meaning, plexuses of the world's neural system, they connect organs and events, signals that you ought to pursue until they wave a white flag and you would, if you didn't have this stupid prejudice for reality…. How long would the ice of reality hold? When at what moment- do you feel it crack beneath your feet? First you see the fine cracks of coincidences, these ramify and expand unsettlingly, but the ice still holds and so far you're not worried…. the ice shatters, you fall into the freezing water, and suddenly you are underneath, searching like a sea lion for a hole where you can breathe.” Reading Still Born by Guadalupe Nettel, I came across this passage. “I had gone to sit out on the balcony, which looks over the building’s inner courtyard, with a mint tea and a book by Mircea Cărtărescu, who I have got quite into over the last few months. The novel tells the story of a teacher in a school in Bucharest where there is an uncontainable outbreak of lice. As I tried to imagine the corridors of this communist– and to judge by this story, rather gloomy– school in the 1970s, I heard someone banging the wall….”

There are books that are not just books; they can be described only as unique experiences that have such a depth that you will at least admire even if it is not your cup of tea. “Solenoid” by Mircea Cartarescu belongs to this category. It is structured as a journal written by an anonymous failed writer and disillusioned teacher that lives in Bucharest in 1980s. His days are marked with bureaucracy, yet his inner world is teeming with vivid dreams, haunting memories and surrealist images. The narrative is hallucinatory and reads like a confession, a philosophical enquiry or even a dreamscape. The narrator is full of despair and yearning and his thoughts sound like an unstoppable cry for help. Cartarescu’s prose is dense, inventive and lyrical and I felt on many occasions owe for Sean Cotter’s job who is the translator. There are passages of pure genius and if you are patient you will feel immersed in a literary universe that is simultaneously claustrophobic and infinite, spiraling to something that eventually is deeply philosophical and utterly metaphysical. Yet, the lack of a clear conventional plot and emotional catharsis at the end, the strangeness of some parts that feel as incoherent rumbling and the demand of your full attention might spoil part of the experience. I am nevertheless 100% sure that if you manage to read it you will remember this novel even if you score it with 1 out of 5. This is a book about the transformative power of literature and imagination. Teaching and writing. The beauty of literature and poetry and the emotions they can create. Books, pages, phrases, lines and parables becoming reality. Spiritual oppression and the hypocrisy of writers in playing their role in our world. It is also a book about the tension between reality and imagination. The thin line between them. Dreams and consciousness, deception and illusion. The idea that everything might be a dream or that we live in worlds within worlds. A book about motherhood and the role mothers play as central pillars of a child’s world. The first time you realize you are on your own in life. The relationship with the opposite sex and the secrets of adulthood. The feeling of existing when you love someone and the pain of failed relationships. It is also a story about our childhood and the imaginary worlds we built. The memories we carry and the endless futures a child has when it’s born. A book about mental illness and the change of your personality into something foreign. Fear, that is shared among all species and judgment. History and propaganda. Faith, the existence of God and atheism. It is also a story about the meaning of our life and personal failure. Successes hiding failures and failures camouflaging success. The value of believing in yourself rather than believing in the opinion of others. Various dimensions of being and the moments the rest of your life is decided. A book about self perception and identity. Alienation, feeling foreign and lonely. Human suffering, crying, helplessness and mortality. The knowledge that the end will at some point come. Mostly though, this is a book about the inexplicable adventure of life. The fact that our world is mysterious and even with our poor understanding of it, is still filled with beauty amd wonders. Human connection, belief and hope, lived experience and artistic legacy. The longing for a deeper and more profound reality and the power of a smile. Why should you read “Solenoid”? Because it acts as a window into Eastern European literature and late communist Romania and you will learn things that you didn’t know before. Because you will reflect on the idea that we are not expected to make any decisions in life, as decisions have been already made ahead of time for us. Because you will understand that pain and suffering is part of human nature, even though it is not clear what is the purpose they serve. Because you will acknowledge that the majestic gift of life was given to us together with the knowledge that we will one day die. Because you will recognise that everything is connected and coexists at a universe level. Because you will wonder of what material our dreams are woven. Because you will accept that life is a game and you have to learn the rules and navigate the paths through bad things and good. Because, even if reading it will on many occasions fill you with despair about the fact that we always experience misfortunes, suffering and trials, you will be left with the feeling of compassion and hope. Because it will provoke you to “rage against the dying of the light”. Favorite quotes: “It seems strange that I have a body, that I am in a body”. “My mind dressed in flesh, my flesh dressed in the cosmos”. “We think we have access to the logical-mathematical structure of the world, but we continue to live without self-consciousness and without understanding, digging tunnels through the skin of God, causing him nothing but fits and irritation”. “To be human, to live the life of a person, to bring new people and new things formed by your mind into the world, to rejoice in the seventy rotations of your world around the ball of lava that gives it life - we may call this happiness, even if every life adds some blood, sweat and tears to the mixture”. Perhaps all we want from reading is to return to that age when we could hold a book and cry, to that time between childhood and adolescence, the sweetest era of our lives”. If dreams had never been, we would never have known we have a soul. The concrete, tangible, real world would have been all there was - the only dream permitted to us; and because it was the only one, it would have been incapable of recognizing itself as a dream. We doubt the world because we dream. We perceive it as it is - a sinister prison for minds - only because, when we close our eyes at night, we always wake up on the other side of our eyelids”. “Why was I given, like everyone else like me, a god’s mind, if it had to come with a mite’s body?”. “We live for a nanosecond on a speck of dust lost in the cosmos”. “Human consciousness is a smile, the smile of providence. Its death is absolute murder, it cannot be accepted, and never excused. It is that against which you must rage, with all your might: Rage, rage against the dying of the light”.

At the reading I attended, Cărtărescu made clear that he isn't a novelist, isn't a poet—he's a keeper of a journal. And this book certainly had the "holy mess" quality you'd expect from that kind of literary adventure—really more of a project than a book. Cărtărescu, or some oneiromancer version of himself, wove dreams and real life together until I didn't know what was what, which was wonderful. I want this from a book. I want to live the strangeness of someone's inner life, their 'anomalies' as Cărtărescu calls them. I also loved the scuzzy, grimy, dream-like decay of Cărtărescu's Bucharest, painted in jaundiced yellows and gooseshit greens. This is one to get lost in.

In November 1944 a German rocket exploded in a working class area of South London killing many civilians. It's haunting to wonder what would have happened if those lives hadn't been lost. Francis Spufford takes this as the basis of his novel “Light Perpetual” where he imaginatively “rescues” five children from this fate and fictionally builds the full trajectory of their lives complete with all their respective triumphs, failures, passions and disappointments. Each section leaps forward in time by fifteen years to give snapshots not only of how their lives have changed but how our culture and society has evolved over time. I immediately felt sympathetic to this structure as it's very similar to my favourite novel “The Waves” by Virginia Woolf – though Spufford's fiction uses a more straightforward prose style and focuses on a class of people Woolf didn't often represent in her fiction. Not only does this consistently compelling alternative history spotlight the varied lives and concerns of this working class area of London, but it queries the way in which our social circumstances affect or determine our choices and views in life. I admire the statement the author makes by nobly filling out five lives which aren't memorialised in any way other than as part of a number that perished during a WWII attack. However, a concern I had while reading was that if you took off the very beginning and very end of this book it wouldn't be any different from a straightforward historical novel following a group of people over the course of their lives. I wondered if this meant its central concept is more of a gimmick than something which is artfully woven into the texture of its story. But I think Spufford is making an interesting point in these lives which interact with historical events and other lives to subtly change the state of the world in ways we wouldn't necessarily notice. Many alternate histories such as “The Alteration” by Kingsley Amis or “The Plot Against America” by Philip Roth imaginatively construct a story based on vast political changes involving famous figures. What Spufford does is more subtle and challenging because it asks in what way unsung figures alter and influence the world. Read my full review of Light Perpetual by Francis Spufford on LonesomeReader

Actual rating 4.5/5 stars. I am an ambassador for Hay Festival and this was the Hay Book of the Month for February 2021. I am so grateful to be part of such a great scheme, that introduces me to such educational and diverse reads on a whole range of topics. Usually they are titles I have not heard of before, like this one, with synopsis that hint they are not inside my regular reading tastes, like this one, but prove incredibly informative, hard-hitting and enjoyable, like this one. Light Perpetual begins with a paused moment in time. It is mid-day on a Saturday in 1944. The streets of London are teeming and a crowd has gathered outside Woolworths. They are moments away from being obliterated. But what if they weren't? What if the bomb heading for them altered its course and harmlessly passed overhead? These lives could be saved and could go on to experience everything the rest of the century, as well as the turn of it, has to offer. The novel follows five of the children in this crowd. Their continued existence is granted and they go on to experience heartbreak, regrets, tragedies, and pain. There are also moments of joy, laughter, awe, and pleasure. In short, Spufford has allowed them to live, with all the nuanced emotions and rollercoaster occurrences that this entails. Most years, of the lives of these five individuals, aren't touched upon, and, instead, a seemingly random handful of them are focused upon. What occurs in-between isn't featured and so this reads almost like a collection of short and interconnected tales, instead. We get to witness the five age, grow, and fade away. We get to witness to world around them alter in the same fashion. This was an incredibly moving story and the altered setting of each scene created a fast-pace that, again, was also mirrored by the quickly changing industrial, technological, political, and societal advancements always being made. The characters at the heart of it remained largely the same, despite also achieving their smaller series of alterations in appearance, role, priorities, and mindsets, too. This provided a moving account of these five random lives as well as a whistle-stop tour of a modifying Britain, during this time. I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to the author, Francis Spufford, the publisher, Faber and Faber, and Hay Festival for this opportunity.

Some good and bad here, although that of course oversimplifies. This novel is a collection of stories covering the fictional alternate lives of five children killed by the Woolworth V2 rocket, which killed 160 people in 1944. Spufford takes snapshots of their lives, one day every 15 yrs. What comes out is a post-WW2 history of the cultural changes of a fictionalized southeast London suburb. It‘s in some ways very simple, but also has something to it that is a little hard to pin down. Seems the more I think about it the more I appreciate it. Readers should take note that there some issues. Among it's not-flawed flaws is an almost perfect schoolboy prose, precise, with an carefully elaborate vocabulary, and that comes out dry, and flat. And it's essentially plotless and a little slow and a little too writer-friendly. I think critics tend to like it more than readers. For me, i spent a chunk of the book wondering whether or not I was enjoying it, and the whole book wondering whether I should be. It‘s better in hindsight. A curious aspect is that I spent so much time wondering how essential the V2 plot line set up is to the heart of the book. It‘s possible the whole book could exist as just the lives of five WWII era kids, without that setup. Their lives are plain, and yet dramatic and tragic enough. But do these tie, the set-up and stories? I caught a few subtle links built-in while reading, and now, looking at the whole thing I‘m finding they actually tie-in really well in several different ways, especially in the sense of 20th century themes. This is in some ways specific to England and its collapsing social hierarchies, but there is still a universal aspect, and deep worry and wonder of what has become of this post WWII world. For what it's worth, the book first really captured me at what he calls T + 35, 35 years after the bomb and when the kids are now nearly 40. He caught something here, a sense of mid-career disappointment when there is still time to redirect and begin again, but effort and the habit discourage. Before that my connection with the book was tenuous, after I was very much involved with these five alternate lives. I'm not sure how I would recommend this, but I am glad it's on the Booker long list and that I read it. ----------------------------------------------- 49. Light Perpetual by Francis Spufford reader: Imogen Church published: 2021 format: 12:37 audible audiobook (336 pages in hardcover) acquired: September 24 listened: Sep 25 – Oct 16 rating: 3½ locations: “Bexford”, which is a fictionalized version of Deptford, in southeast London. about the author: Born 1964 probably in Cambridge to two academic historians (both have Wikipedia entries).

Rec. by: Previous work Rec. for: Chance's acquaintances Francis Spufford's novel Light Perpetual begins abstractly, in the moment of an explosion, considered strictly in terms of physics and maths. This could be offputting to an impatient reader. But then it turns to action: This is no time for speculation. There is a bomb going off. —p.4 And then Spufford introduces the counterfactual that makes this novel sf—a work of speculative fiction: what if that German bomb did not go off, or it went off elsewhere? How would the people—especially the children—who were shopping in that Woolworths in London, in 1944, have lived out their lives, had they not been cut short so savagely? Francis Spufford is not, of course, the first author to muse upon the contingent nature of reality... how time passes, or rather how we move through—how we fall through—time. But Light Perpetual is a shining example of the theme. Light Perpetual begins slowly, and much of its story is implied rather than stated, going on in the intervals between the times Spufford chooses to examine in detail. The book is episodic, jerking us from t + 0 to t + 5 to t + 20 and beyond—which can be frustrating, I'll admit. I very much did not like being torn away from the Tearaways onstage in 1964, for example. That scene, and some later ones also focusing on Jo, reminded me a little bit of David Mitchell's extraordinarily creative rock'n'roll novel Utopia Avenue. But only a little. The book's epilogue jumps even further, to t + ∞. Heh... Spufford couldn't resist this line, about skinhead Mike's headache and how he handled it: It's a triumph of the will. —p.167 Light Perpetual is most definitely an sf novel, but it's not exactly genre SF. None of Spufford's characters go on to Change the World—they don't become planetary dictators, or discover cures for cancer, or invent flying cars. Their effects on the world-as-it-is are almost indiscernible, in fact, at least from a Leftpondian perspective. But they all go on to change their worlds, in small ways, a little at a time. Their lives matter—and that is the genius of Spufford's novel, that he makes us see these really rather ordinary people as individuals worthy of attention... and, by extension (and later on in the novel he states this directly) that every person is worthy of that attention, of existence. Cutting off lives before their time diminishes the world, and makes us smaller—even if we never notice the difference. I thought Golden Hill, Spufford's first novel, was simply a delight to read, and that Red Plenty was amazing. I was glad to find that my third exposure to Francis Spufford's work was equally good. Believe me, you could do a lot worse than to make this timeline one in which you've read Spufford's work too.

This novel is like listening to a symphonic theme and variations. The opening is one history, the loss of five children (among others) in a bomb explosion during the London Blitz in WWII. But the rest of the novel is both an imagined set of lives for those five children growing up if they hadn't been killed in the bombing, and a tapestry of the 20th century history of London. I enjoyed this a great deal, and have heard that his other novel, Golden Hill is even better. One to look for.

This novel opens with an unconventional framework. A V-2 rocket sets a building and the people within it to ash. This happened in our real world, outside of the realm of this fiction, and it happened in this fictional world as well. What follows is not a work of alternate history, it is a work of pretend. Every event that occurs in this novel is predicated by the knowledge of its nonexistence, even within the confines of this fictional narrative. It's normal to approach a work of fiction with the knowledge that it is just that, a fiction, but it a bit unusual for a novel to insist that you treat it as such. With this knowledge shading in the shadows of the narrative, Spufford treats with line after line of delirious prose charting London, as it is, in the latter half in the 20th century. I say "as it is" because there's nothing reminiscent of a butterfly effect here—Thatcher is still elected PM, skinheads still skulk about buildings that rise up and down with the tastes—the five lives we follow are only large enough to change individual lives, not the current of history. Spufford's writing is strong enough to turn an unconventional premise into something eminently enjoyable. The words carry such a weight that they threaten to cave in on themselves, but an impressive balancing act is reached with joyfully descriptive text that avoids the pitfalls of hackwork. By the time of Light Perpetual's exceptional closing I was irritated with the tears speckling my eyelashes, as they were distracting me from such wonderful sentences. There's hardly a better testament of a good novel. I plan to read more Spufford soon. "Safe today, brothers and sisters. Safe tomorrow. Safe forever after. Praise him for that! Praise his great name. Now that's a lot! Isn't that a lot to praise him for? Amen! But that's not all. That's not all. The Lord don't just want your house to stand! He's got you safe—you, sister, you, brother. But he wants more. He got bigger plans. He want to hold this whole wicked city in his hand. Listen to him! Psalm one-two-seven again, back we go. Except the Lord keep the *city*, the watchman waketh but in vain. You hear? The watchman wakes up in the night and he looks around. What was that sound? Was that a fox, you know, rummaging in the bin for the cold kebab? (You know that sound, eh, sister?) Or was it a burglar, breaking in? He doesn't know, so he worries and he worries. But it does no good. It is in vain, unless the *Lord* keep the city. Unless the Lord take it all in his hand. Now Jerusalem, you know, was a city just like London. It had nightclubs. It had bad areas. It had dealers in wickedness. It had rich people, proud people, unrighteous people, with mischief in their hearts. But the Lord, brothers and sisters, what did he do? Did he want to burn it? To wash it away in a mighty flood? No. No. He went another way to clean up that dirty place. He loved it. He want to redeem it. And he did redeem it. He wash it with his blood. He wash it bright and clean. He make it new. The New Jerusalem, brothers and sisters, beautiful like a bride; think of that. And you know? It's just the same with London. This dirty town, he want to hold it all safe in his hand as well. He want to build it again, on the rock of salvation. He want to make it new and holy. He want to wash the pavements till they shine like diamonds. He want to dress it in a shining robe. He want to bring it all to salvation. Do you think he can? Tell me if you think he can, brothers and sisters. I can't hear you. Yes, he can! Yes, he can! He can take this great city, he can make it new. He can wash it clean. He can redeem it. He can make it sing and praise his name. Praise his name! Praise his holy name! Praise him, Bexford! Praise him, London! Praise him, Ess Eee Fourteen, and all the other postcodes! Praise him with the sound of the trumpet! Praise him with the psaltery and harp! Praise him with the timbrel and dance! Praise him with stringed instruments and organs! Praise him upon the loud cymbals! Praise him upon the high-sounding cymbals! Let every thing that hath breath praise the Lord!" And Ben thinks, dazed as he always is as the pastor reaches his climax and the choir ascends to ecstasy: I am safe. I *am*, though I don't know how or why. Thank you.

I really wanted to give this book 5 stars because it is mostly a work of literary genius. It is the sort of book that if I was going to write a novel, I would want to achieve something as original, poetic and with the majestic impact Light Perpetual has. The opening chapter describing the atomisation of a ten thousandth of a second in time is jaw dropping and breath-takingly stunning. It is an opening I will never forget because it is beautiful, terrifying, powerful and so cleverly written. It immediately captures the reader's attention, arrests the mind and from thereonin you have no choice but to surrender to the wonder of Time itself and the intelligent way Spufford has portrayed alternative lives for the 5 children whose young worlds end in one bomb blast in Woolworths, in Bexford High Street, November 1944. The reason I could not award 5 stars was because in some parts I felt many readers could be lost if they do not share the passions the author himself does. Extensively researched or intimately known through personal lived experience, there are moments when some of the prose is a bit heavy going. This won't appeal to everyone. I was mostly simply swept away by the enormity of time and how the characters' imagined lives could have developed, however there was one notable section, about music, which even I found a little tedious. Sorry! The headings of the chapters show time as a very simple mathematical equation and the last heading and very last line of the book was perfect in my opinion, finishing the novel as powerfully as it started. There is plenty of nostalgia, lots of references to particular things found in certain decades that took me back and although I have never lived in London and very rarely visited the capital city, I could appreciate a social commentary which made landmarks of key events into a sort of political history. A constant turning, spiralling, spinning world where perpetial motion can lead to any destination at any point in time, Light Perpetual is a book I am so very grateful to have read and one I highly recommend to others. Thanks goes to the author, publisher, Pigeonhole and Netgalley for providing the opportunity to read a novel I so very nearly glanced away from. 4.5 stars.

2021 Booker Longlist The opening chapter of this book, describing a bomb exploding in the middle of a South London Woolworths (in a fictional Bexford), has to be one of the best opening Chapters I've ever read. "The light is grey and sullen: a smoulder, a flare choking on the soot of its own burning, and leaking only a little of its power into the visible spectrum. The rest is heat and motion......" then later moving into the sliding glass door moment Come, other future. Come, mercy not manifest in time; come knowledge not obtainable in time. Come, other chances. Come unsounded deep. Come, undivided light. Come dust. The children who's lives were to be snuffed out in an instant, instead are given time to grow and make their way through to the remainder of 20th Century London, into the next century, however, I never felt very connected to any of them. I never really felt emotionally invested, despite the brilliant writing and the interesting characterisation. So for me, all I wanted to do was get to the end of this book so I could read something I was more engaged with. Maybe it's me not the book. I did pause it partway through because I really wasn't connecting but that didn't really help either. I'm pleased I read it, maybe it would improve on a reread, however, back to the library with it now.

** spoiler alert ** This was a truly stunning novel based on five lives who never really were. In 1944 fourteen children were killed in a bombing of a Woolworths in London. Some were no older than infants. Spufford explores how five of their lives might have gone had they lived and it's not all pretty. One child grows up to be the beaten down spouse of a neo-Nazi; another, a hapless bus ticket collector, suffers from terrible bouts of mental illness but finds peace in an unconventional love in his later life. A third is a young woman who leaves LA on the edge of fame and wonders about her purpose for many years. The saddest of the group is a man who turns away from his questing soul to pursue a life scamming people and finally loses the only person who ever cared for him. The author here is saying that despite its trials and tribulations, recorded here in vivid painful detail, life is still worth living. It is true that Spufford identifies as a Christian so some might find his message corny and overly optimistic. But for those who still long to feel the sunlight on their faces at the end of a weary day, this book offers a kind of solace rarely found today.

"Their part in time is done. They have no share, any more, in what swells and breathes and tightens and turns and withers and brightens and darkens; in any of the changes of things. Nothing is possible for them that requires being to stretch from one instant to another over the gulfs of time" Light Perpetual opens with a beautiful and masterful description of the V2 rocket hitting Woolworths store, London on 25th November 1944. As a backdrop, the V2 rocket attacks were launched by Hitler on several major cities in Europe when the Nazis' were losing World War II. The V2 attack on Woolworths resulted in 168 deaths. Of the 168 people who died, 15 were aged 11 or under. The lives of these children and their future were soon erased from that moment onwards. "They cannot act, or be acted on. Cannot call, or be called. Do or be done unto". Francis Spufford aimed to reimagine the lives of 5 children (Alec, Ben, Jo, Val, and Vern) but for the Woolworths V2 attack. The detailed description of the friction between atoms, matter, radiation, the bombing, and ultimately, its aftermath in the first chapter is so stunning and captivating. Subsequently, we then follow the alternate lives of the 5 children. Their lives were told at intervals of 15 years. The characters' lives, achievements, experiences, struggles were all fleshed out with different layers of complexity: Alec ventured into the printing industry and became the printer's union leader; Ben was schizophrenic and experienced nightmares of cannibalism, who ended up marrying a widowed black woman; Jo had a talent in music and songwriting who was then involved in a complicated relationship with a pop star; Val, Jo's sister, was involved in a relationship with a thug, Mike who was a racist with violent tendencies; Vern who was a bully in his school became a crooked property developer. Without a doubt, Spufford's writing is lyrical and poetic. He is able to pick up mundane particulars and transform such mundanity into something beautiful with his detailed descriptions. Glimpses of certain issues via Spufford's characters were offered: We get to know a little about the state of the printing unions in London in the 1970s through Alec's character; singing techniques, and songwriting process from Jo's character; racism, and white supremacy issues from Val's character; mental health issues from Ben's character; the real estate bubble from Vern's character. From the span of 1949 until 2009, Spufford managed to capture the entire reimagined lives of his 5 characters, from young, until death. The closing chapter is definitely impactful as the characters' frailty due to old age and dispassionate or melancholic attitude towards life, hope, and change are all condensed perfectly in that chapter. What troubles me deeply is the lack of reconciliation between Spufford's intention (in recreating the alternate lives of the victims of the Woolworths V2 attack) and the lives of his 5 characters. It seems to me that even without the Woolworths V2 attack premise, the story of the 5 characters can stand on its own. Apart from the first chapter, the V2 attack is no longer mentioned throughout the book. It appears that Spufford had missed the opportunity in his execution by linking up the characters with his interesting premise. It is a pity to give this a 3.8/5 star rating as I do think that Spufford's writing is distinctive. To me, Light Perpetual is speculative and experimental but lacked in execution.

Jo and Valerie and Alec and Ben and Vernon are gone. Gone so fast they cannot possibly have known what was happening, which some of those who mourn them will take for a comfort, and some won't. Five young children are killed in the 1944 bombing of a South London department store while their caregivers are looking at new saucepans. I was pleasantly surprised to read a largely unsentimental account of their sudden passing, and the equally unsentimental fabrication of all five lives as they might have been lived. The writing veered frequently from blunt and factual to wildly overblown and over-described, and occasionally I had no idea what the author was trying to get across. (It took me a double read of the first two pages to grasp that he was describing a bomb going off.) The best passages, for me, were about the children's classroom and their teacher, and the patriotic songs they sang. I even looked up a few of the songs and enjoyed Sandra Tucker singing "The Ballad of London River." Music is crucial to the story and worth the effort of thinking about and listening to as I went along. The characters were wonderful and I felt very involved in each of their lives over the years. In all, a very rewarding read and satisfying ending, with some lovely passages and some skippable ones. The author's acknowledgements at the end are a must-read.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2021. ‘Light Perpetual’ by Francis Spufford is a refreshing and original read. The premise of the story is an alternate reality in which a V-2 rocket doesn’t strike a Woolworths supermarket in the fictionalised London borough of Bexford. What follows is the story of five characters, starting from five years on from the moment the bomb wasn’t dropped, and continue in parts every fifteen years until 2009. _________ It’s rare for a novel to entice me from the very first page, but the strength of writing from Spufford sets up the grand scope of ‘Light Perpetual’ from the beginning of this story. The characters experience vastly different lives, of missed opportunities and moments of clarity and importance. There is a general sense of time and the inevitability of growing old in this novel, the reader naturally thinks of alternate realities themselves in writing that is simple yet effortless. _________ Overall, ‘Light Perpetual’ is a book deservedly nominated for the Booker Prize, perhaps one that would also make the shortlist. Spufford writes in a way that clicks with his characters and story, an author I’ll be reading more of after this.

Another excellent novel from Francis Spufford, much darker than Golden Hill but equally beautifully written. The opening, which recounts a WW2 bombing of a London suburb and introduces us to the novel's protagonists, is gripping, although I wasn't entirely convinced by the counterfactual premise of the story until I read the author's afterword which made it seem entirely appropriate. The novel traces the imagined lives of the children if they had not died and takes the reader through a social history of the second half of the twentieth century and I enjoyed the evocation of London and the period details. The very ordinariness of the characters made them seem somewhat sketchy and in some cases almost stereotypical, a vehicle for the description of social change - for example, Alec who is caught up in the radical changes in the newspaper industry and then becomes a teacher and Vern who becomes a fairly unscrupulous property developer but gets his eventual just deserts. But parts of their experiences were very vividly described. Ben's schizophrenic episodes are so poignantly written that I wondered if the author has had a similar experience. Although the sections set in LA and the music industry were less convincing, Jo's creative experience was also very credibly described and her reflections on teaching - the idea that you have to strip down your own knowledge in order to convey it to your students - resonated strongly with my own experience (although she doesn't add that the focusing process also enables you to extend your own understanding significantly). Val's story and her involvement with the violent side of skinhead culture was gripping and all too convincing. This is not a cheerful book but I found it compelling and thought provoking.

** spoiler alert ** A new book from Francis Spufford is always something to look forward to, as he's one of my favourite writers. From the blurbs, it sounded like this would be a better version of Kate Atkinson's Life After Life - an exploration of time, of the lingering effects of WWII, of the different paths lives can take. That expectation both over- and undersells the novel itself. Light Perpetual begins with the lives of a group of 4-year-olds being snuffed out, and goes on to imagine the might-have-been of those ordinary lives. However, the emotional impact of this framing is limited by the lack of sense of the children as people before they're killed. They're little more than tiny bundles of potential. Spufford then chooses not to reel the potential threads of their lives back in at the end of the novel, pulling them back into the epicentre of the explosion, cancelling out everything you'd read about them. This left me with the feeling that I'd read the lives of five fictional people as they panned out over the latter half of the 20th century, rather than the "might-have-been" cut off by a bomb in 1944. And because Spufford picks fairly ordinary, believable future-lives, though Ben, Val, Jo, Vern and Alec never have them, other people did, or something near enough as makes no difference (to a reader). People were a rockstar girlfriends, people had mental health issues, people unscrupulously profited from the booms and busts of those 50 years. So I think the sense of cataclysm, of the sheer waste and loss caused by an arbitrary split-second of time elapsing, which seems to have been what Spufford hoped to evoke, ultimately doesn't come off. That said, although the novel doesn't ever quite become more than the sum of its parts, those parts are absolutely fantastic. Spufford (as you'd expect from his non-fiction) has a voracious interest in everything, and in how things work. There are wonderful set-pieces on how type used to be set for London magazines, the semi-nocturnal life of an almost-famous group in LA, the rainy racist tension of a minor BF rally, the horrors of a mind dealing with schizophrenia. The people are real and their growth and relapses (the novel drops in on them all at 15-year intervals) are all brilliantly realised. It also highlights Spufford's twin faiths (music and Christianity). There isn't any overt god-bothering, but there is a sense of hope in the small things, in chinks of light peeking through, of small kindnesses, of a good vicar who says the right thing at the time, that point the way. The whole book is saturated in music (they should publish a combined kindle/audiobook that just soundtracks the chapters with the music mentioned). In many ways, this is a quiet, measured book - it certainly lacks the headlong plot of Spufford's previous novel, Golden Hill. The bangs tend to be noisier and more dramatic (the crashes, the breakups, the deaths, the voices inside Ben's head) and the moments of hope are quieter by comparison. Spufford is a subtle, tactful writer, and doesn't beat you about the head. An interracial couple, a remarriage, sisters reconnecting, two male vicars sharing a life as well as a vicarage - some key parts of the plot (such as there is), some mentioned only in passing. It's also, perhaps surprisingly, a melancholy book. Spufford says at one point that you can never go back, never go home, which is true, but he also makes clear that neither can you ever fully escape. People build things up and they fall apart; they start again. It's not a despairing book or grimdark, but there's a quiet melancholy that runs through it. The book is also that most appalling of things, a love letter to London. I usually hate any book described this way, but Spufford gets away with it. He clearly loves London and perhaps this is why no one really manages to 'escape' it (most don't manage to escape Bexford). This is in such stark contrast to the usual ideas of 'progress' that novels about this period try to encapsulate. No one goes to university, no one makes a ton of money and gets to keep it. The progress is those small moments of hope: a prescription for antidepressants; someone retraining later in life; grandchildren. As Spufford's previous novel, Golden Hill, was both a reproduction of, and a gentle sending up of, 18th-century novels, there's a suggestion that Light Perpetual is an example of modern litfic. After the first chapter, Spufford is swept away with his characters' lives, but that first chapter teeters between style and pastiche. (Is some of it meant to be ever so slightly funny? Perhaps it's just me and a crashing lack of taste and a morbid sense of humour: "But they can't see it. Nobody can. The image of the V-2 is on their retinas, but it takes far longer than a ten-thousandth of a second for a human eye to process an image and send it to the brain. Much sooner than that, the children won't have eyes any more. Or brains. This instant - this interval of time, measurably tiny, immeasurably vast - arrives unwitnessed, ends unwitnessed. And yet it is a real moment. It really happens. It really takes its necessary place in the sequence of moments by which 910 kilos of amatol are delivered among the saucepans.") Definitely a novel to savour and re-read, even if it doesn't quite achieve some of the grand literary claims being made for it.

4.5 Without a doubt, the beauty of this book is in the simplicity of the details. Beautifully written, nothing great, just the complexity of life that we sometimes take for granted. In parts it is very moving. The narrator is excellent.

Literary. Redemptive. Descriptive. Melancholic. Moving. Original. Harrowing. Memorable. Very good. Took a little time to get into the flow. Golden Hill was so very good it is a hard act to follow.

Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize. When her mother dies Teresa finds a small Greek town to mourn and grieve, but also to recollect and recenter, get her thoughts in order. A place that is “quiet, but not somnolent”. To do this she carries around a notebook with her and jots down thoughts and observations. Teresa does the same trip to the same town nine years later when her father dies. She even stays in the same hotel room. Teresa notes the changes that have taken place in nine years. As you read you are reading Teresa’s notes along with her actual thoughts. However, the narrative is in no way linear. It meanders along back and forth whimsically, much like memory itself and I suspect this is intentional. There are also dreams and at times you may be a little confused exactly where you are in the story. But it’s a short book and I found things clicked together much more smoothly on the second read making it more enjoyable. There is no real plot to the novel. Rather it is all about Teresa, documenting, remembering conversations, relations, with characters from the town. Exploring her grief through memories and anecdotes. Coming to terms with and reflecting on her losses. The characters and dialogue are great, the writing even better. An interesting sidenote which may mean nothing at all. The first trip Teresa brings a copy of “The Odyssey” with her and then on the second she brings “The Iliad”. Greece, Homer, but the poems read in reverse. Probably nothing, but you never know. :-) For some reason I think this is going to make the shortlist. :-)

I enjoyed this quiet, meditative novel which is more focused on philosophical observations about life and human relationships than it is any particular plot. Many comparisons have been made to Cusk and Levy, and I consider these valid although One Boat didn't reach quite those exquisite heights for me. One Boat is structurally sound, and beautifully written on a sentence level. I wasn't entirely sure I got everything that it was trying to do, but it was a lovely read.

3,5 I read this because of its Booker long listing - as others have noted: for fans of Rachel Cusk. It is about a British woman who travels to the Peloponnese on her own to contemplate the loss of her father and make time to think. She's visited the same little town 9 years earlier when her mother died, and she revisits that first stay based on the notebook she kept. She also looks for the people she met. I suspect the Booker-judge rooting for Katie Kitamura picked this one as well. It is a similar little book in that it creates a suspenseful atmosphere not by a spectacular plot but by withholding important background information. Some of it is never revealed. Buckley's work is more philosophical though, it explores big questions, and conversations are important to unpick them. Somewhat unfortunately, I was more impressed by the accessible way the ideas were described than fascinated by the philosophical ideas themselves. It was all quite enjoyable, but lost me a bit in the final chapters (except for the surprising final chapter!). Nice to have read it, but don't see this make the shortlist.

I definitely often thought about Rachel Cusk's Outline and Katie Kitamura's A Separation while reading "One Boat" and not just because of the Greek setting. "One Boat" sets itself apart though by being a bit more complicated and varied in its form. The narrative is often nonlinear, with the narrator relaying events from her two different (and nine years separated) trips to this Greek coastal town, and this nonlinearity often occurs within the same chapter and sometimes even within the same paragraph. Occasionally entries and text from the narrator's journal are worked in and identified through italics. Like "Outline," a lot of the story is told through the narrator's conversations with other characters, though there's also plenty of the narrator's own internal recall and reflections throughout. Overall, I found this to be a very odd novel in terms of its execution, and I see how it wouldn't work for some people (it can sometimes feel glacial in terms of pacing; I've seen similar complaints about "Outline"). But ultimately, I found it to be a great introspective read, with a lot of cerebral delicacy that worked for me. 3.5 rounded up to a 4 I think.

If you’re drawn to the “observant solo woman rambling around town with a notebook in her hand” style of narrative (think Rachel Cusk), chances are you’ll like this. A woman who, 10 years earlier, visited a Greek village to mourn her mother’s death and flee her crumbling marriage, revisits the village following her father’s death. Intelligent and well-constructed fiction.

One Boat is a quiet, meditative novel about a woman named Teresa who returns to a small Greek town in the aftermath of her father’s death. Years earlier, she had sought refuge in the same place after her mother died. Very little “happens” in the conventional sense; instead, Teresa gradually unpacks her grief through rigorous self-examination, documenting a detailed series of observations, memories, and conversations. Memory, for her, is something that can be messy, recursive, and unreliable, yet still essential to understanding who she is. By revisiting this town, she is also revisiting herself, searching for continuity in the wake of losing another parent. Her slow, contemplative journey toward some sense of closure gives the novel a circular shape, or rather emphasizes the somewhat circular process of solitude and reflection that allows her to reframe and reshape the myriad fragments of her past. For Teresa, the inherent instability of memory is not a flaw but a source of endless possibility. She patiently combs through her memories in an attempt to discover a more inhabitable emotional space that allows room for healing in the difficult, open-ended work of grieving.

Would I ever want to spend days in a small Greek coastal village talking amateur philosophy with the locals, gazing at the bay, exploring ruins, people watching at the cafe, getting tangentially involved in a case of blood revenge, and sleeping with the hot diving instructor? I can see a case for it! And that’s what this novel gives me, narratively speaking, in prose I enjoyed, and in a structure - two visits about a decade apart intertwined, and interspersed with added commentary in the form of critically analytical journal entries - I also enjoyed. Of course, there’s the fact that the general philosophical framework of this philosophical novel is antithetical to mine, Buckley writing for his character that “we know that the soul, if we can call it a soul, is not separable from the flesh, that when we die we die entirely. He paused to ascertain that he had not mis-intuited my position. We were in agreement.” The only character who would agree to the existence of the neshama is this one old guy with far right politics, obviously someone to frown on. Disappointing. Not a huge deal, but, something that affects my personal evaluation of the novel. And an absolute disgrace that this novel has a worse overall Goodreads rating than the limp, scared, and toadying fellow Booker longlisted novel The Rest of Our Lives.

I liked this, but not with the same intensity of some of the former long and short listed Bookers. Very well written, short, but at times felt like it was trying to do too much.

One Boat is the first of this year’s shortlist that I have read and it’s also a first as it’s publisher Fitzcarraldo’s debut Booker Longlist entry. This publisher is known for their translations. Fitzcarraldo has been nominated 15 times for the International Booker, and in additional to their translations they publish a couple of non-translated titles every year: it looks like they got lucky with One Boat. One Boat’s main premise is simple: Teresa goes to visit a Greek island. There are a couple of reasons. One is to grieve her father’s death. The second is because she visited this island nine years earlier to grieve her mother’s death. Teresa then recounts events that happened during her first sojourn and there are flashes of her situation in the present day as she sees if anything has changed. During this personal odyssey, Teresa meets certain people. Each chapter consists of a meeting in the past or present, a philosophical discussion and some kind of lesson. One chapter is about a man whose nephew is murdered and his sister takes her life and that chapter is about depression, grief and loss. Another chapter is about her ex-lover diver who marries a beautiful woman, There’s the mechanic who moonlights as a poet. With each encounter, Teresa writes about her impressions. This is not a book for people who like closure. Instead, one sees meditations on all aspects of life: both good and bad. Within this structure One Boat manages to unearth a good number of intricate issues. Already One Boat as been compared to novels by Rachel Cusk and Deborah Levy and I can see that as both authors treat their novels as extended discussions although One Boat does not hit their heights (personally I think Cusk tries a bit too hard write about nothing and make it meaningful, but that’s another discussion) but it works as a novel. One Boat is also gorgeously written so there is the pleasure of soaking in Buckley’s erudite style. There is a lot more I could talk about : how the Odyssey and Iliad have their role to play in the book; the significance of Teresa writing her thoughts, or how love can turn up unexpectedly or equally how it can be deceptive – Jonathan Buckley throws a lot at the reader but as I said, his style makes all these thoughts flow, As the start of my Booker 2025 journey, I started strongly.

One boat tells the story of lawyer and aspiring writer Teresa as she returns to a Greek town to mourn her father, having visited years prior after her mother's death as well. The narrative explores themes of grief, memory, and identity through Teresa's observations and journal entries, blending her current experiences with recollections from her past trip. A place where she had met men like Petros ( a mechanic and an amateur poet ) and old flame Niko. Revisiting them offers varied perspectives to Teresa, which eventually becomes a part of her contemplative journey. She also meets John, a very infuriated local man whose life is overshadowed by the violent death of his nephew and the ways Teresa tries to understand his anger and reasons with him is engaging A book that was turning out to be a perfect read, just turned everything head over heels in that last one chapter. It was infuriating. But I think that was the whole purpose of writing it- to unsettle the readers, start conversation. I don't see any other reason otherwise for the author to write a one like that ( until and unless he is pumped up high on male ego) This book in its own different ways reminded me of a book by the famous Indian Author- Ladies Coupé. A book I have loved a lot. It's such an awe inspiring feminist story, where this 45 year old woman steps out to find answers to questions like - can a woman live alone the way she wants in this world. She travels alone and meets all women passengers in her coupe, where they all share their life story. In the end Akhila does find a man for her sexual liaisons but that also is a way for her to explore her sexual Freedom. Such a powerful book. Even though I love the ending but I still question it's need But one boat I think clearly has moved one step ahead, which feels like more than one, coz has been written by a male. But then I think it also mimics the actual world So maybe the author's plan was not to write an inspiring story but more like a reality check, which I hate but can't deny Further sharing thoughts of a fellow reader. I don't know their Goodreads ID so can't tag them "That final chapter, I thought it tied into that theme of revisiting (redrafting?) the past, & there’s that constant motif of her writing in her notebook & trying to find the right phrasing, painting the mundane in a literary way. I felt that what Patrick read isn’t the same version of the story we read, but her eventual novelisation of this experience. I would also argue that it ties in with the theme about the ‘correct’ way to produce art: symbolised by the attitudes towards the mechanic’s simplistic poetry, which itself is placed against Homer, & then you’ve got the narrator’s dual accounts- the straightforward & literary. So the final chapter kind of frames that- showing how her version is true to her, but not to her partner (who is perhaps biased by not only his own writing style and preferences, but also his distaste for hearing about her sexual attraction to the guy). So there’s all these layers of authenticity/control/manipulation going on." In all it is a challenging read.Not your comfort read. It makes me feel anguished. I would keep wishing for a different ending at the same time agreeing that different (read expected) ending wouldn't have challenged me as a reader. So basically I don't love this book but I love it

Wasn’t easy to follow the main character‘s train of thoughts, but they felt like very real thoughts in a time of grief. You question yourself and everyone and everything around you, so why don’t you do that at the ocean?

3.5 stars - hmmmm this is one of those classic long list bookers that leaves u unsure about them haha. Beautifully written and a lot of the story got me but deffos fell off at the end. Did really like the characters tho

An e-arc thanks to Net Galley. A woman travels to Greece, to a place she visited 9 years ago. Both times, she is grieving. She meets different characters along the way and has conversations on grief, life, philosophy and identity. What I really enjoyed about the book was the idea that people have different perspectives of a place when they have visited more than once; how we mould our experiences onto a place and compare those experiences to the current time; feelings of melancholy and nostalgia. A very nice holiday read. The book is written in an unusual structure (for me as the reader). This was the first of this authors’ books I have read. Some beautiful sentences, many of which I highlighted. It is nearly like there are multiple sub stories within the book, something I found slightly confusing at times but did not mind as the writing was beautiful. A lovely book to add to this publisher’s list of recommended stories.

Well written and very stylish but not an easy read on Kindle. It’s Cuskian, like Audition, but also has Deborah Levy undertones, which stood out for me as I read ‘hot milk’ for a book club just before this. The author certainly writes women well. After a fascinating and interesting meeting on zoom about this book, I’ve upped my score. It is a very intellectual novel, encompassing philosophy, mathematics spiritual, human connection and botanical themes. There is also an element of intrigue and crime involving John and Petros. There were two mathematicians in the group who were able to explain the theorems in an understandable way. It was thought the judges found this too inaccessible for the shortlist. It has inspired me to read Greenwood by Michael Christie, which I received as part of my subscription, and to reread this. It’s the sort of book that can be dismissed as pretentious by some if they don’t understand it.

There’s a dreaminess to this I can’t help but be drawn too. It slips between past and present, narration and journal. The Mediterranean coast with all its sounds and colours sprawling two trips to Greece a decade or so apart. The author asks us what it means to live. Not what makes a good life, but what is a life full stop. I found the philosophical back and forth entirely unrealistic - the kinds of conversations people think they’ll have on European summers with strangers after a glass of red wine. Still, I found the characters and their connections charming. An ending that feels a bit jarring, but drives home the absurdity of life. Can you cut up and edit your memories to change your past? If the past doesn’t exist, why not? 3.5 if Goodreads would let me. Booker #2.

“From there the road led north, in the lee of a long, high, wooded hill, with green fields and olive trees on the other side, and the road became a slot through greenery, which had an effect on the mood – green being the colour of refreshment, tranquillity, resurgence, optimism – before the view opened out and water reappeared: a huge bay, with mountains beyond, on the horizon. Then I saw the town, and the words arose in my head, as clearly as if they were being spoken: ‘This will be the place.’” “‘Mourning is all about continuity. A continuity has been broken, and that’s painful. But memory is continuous. They’ve gone and they’ve not gone.’”

Justice for Petros’ poem! Look, this book has some technical flaws in my opinion (the writing is clunky in spots, but flows beautifully in others? The philosophical conversations between characters felt a bit forced and unrealistic, and just put there very conveniently as if the author is following a checklist of all the topics he wants to philosophize about, but it’s not done smoothly?), but it’s still as good as it gets for an untranslated, contemporary book by a Western author. It’s no Korean lit, it’s no Delecroix, it’s no Ólafsdóttir. It’s just as good as it gets for what it is, I had fun!

my kind of book - featuring a protagonist who is introspective perhaps to a fault, formally flitting between time periods and thus various stages of the protagonist's life, as she focuses on different things and shapes different beliefs. didn't quite care for the framing device in the final chapter - the ending of the penultimate chapter filled me with a certain sadness that dissipated by the end of the book. took so long to read because it's the kind of book that generates a hazy mood you have to stay in, and i fell out of it for too long.

Misinterpretation is about an Albanian translator/interpreter, now living in New York with her American husband, Bobby. The interpreter has a compulsion to help people, even if it annoys her husband and even those she's trying to help. A few misguided altruistic behaviours get her in trouble. I breezed through this, as my library loan was about to expire. I am convinced Alix Dunmore's excellent narration kept me enthralled. Despite its imperfections, the writing style, the atmosphere and the Eastern European common ground - made for an interesting reading journey.

I was sucked into this book once I started it and didn't want to put it down! In this novel, we follow an unnamed Albanian interpreter living in NYC working with a Kosovar refugee. After a therapy session with her client brings up feelings from her own past, and she also decides to help a Kurdish poet, we see that she has a difficult time setting boundaries, especially separating her work and personal life. Very evident in how her husband responds to her helpful efforts. Decisions are made, a trip back home to Albania is taken, and upon return, we find that those decisions have some big repercussions. What I loved most was how Xhoga was giving me a novel that felt like someone pulled back a curtain to let me observe very real interactions with people and a daily struggle for immigrants, but then turned it into a novel with creeping suspense that gave me a "look behind you!" feeling, and kept me turning the pages to see where the story would take me and what the outcome would be. A wonderful novel of wanting to belong, of wanting better lives, of wanting to save people, building trust and families in a foreign land, and I'll say it again, boundaries folks! It is a perfect book to curl up with with autumn approaching. Enjoy this one, I know I did!

Loved the seamless inclusion of Albanian culture and perspective of someone from the diaspora visiting back home. This book is a positive step forward to Albanian cultural representation in contemporary literature. PS: as a girl born in Tirana, the narrator’s journey back to the city made me want to go back asap ❤️‍🩹🥹

strange and beautiful - not like anything I’ve ever read before, think it will stay with me for a long time.

Another from the Booker longlist and I urge you to run, not walk, to grab a copy of this one. The protagonist is an unnamed Albanian interpreter living in New York. She speaks multiple languages and her job is to sit in on some fairly heavy, intimate conversations, translating for people who’ve been through unthinkable trauma. Sometimes it’s just the everyday business of getting around in a city where you don’t speak the language, but sometimes it’s the really personal conversations between a survivor and their therapist, and very quickly the line between professional distance and personal involvement gets messy. She’s pulled into the orbit of Alfred, a survivor of torture, and later into the world of a Kurdish poet, Leyla, add in her marriage to her American husband Billy, which is frustrated and loving, but a bit sidelined, and you can really see how compassion can both connect us and completely unravel us. I LOVED the writing style… a first person prose that doesn’t feel to introspective and whiny. Still filled with emotion, but also with enough clarity and detail to ground the narrator in a wider world. Every word feels like it means something, I guess this is reflective of the importance of meaning in translation and it really came across, there are little observations about people peppered throughout which really bring life to the people around her. And the atmosphere is tense and unsettling, there’s a feeling of potential misinterpretation (😉) in every interaction and it really made me feel great respect for people who move to new countries, especially in circumstances of war. All of the characters felt realistic and believable, even if some of them didn’t give their whole selves away, this felt very deliberate. After all, the translator only knows a tiny sliver of who these people are, however intimate that sliver may be. It’s not a neatly wrapped parcel of a book, threads are left dangling, but that slightly unfinished quality works for the story, it’s all about misreadings, misunderstandings, and the impossibility of fully grasping someone else’s pain. I LOVED it!

The threat of violence simmers just below every sentence. Our narrator is unreliable as narrator, translator, and spouse. Bad things could happen at any moment. Very hard to write a book that reads as if it has been translated. At any point the reported conversations in English might be being spoken in another language without the distinction being made clear. It's discombobulating and unsettling in ways that I don't always appreciate in a novel. It all hangs together just long enough for me to get away unscathed, but I will remember the unease that came with the reading experience.

3.75 I really liked the writing, the story itself was fine, I didn't think it was WOW but it kept me going.

this book teleported me straight back to a past trip to bustling Albania, with its vibrant capital Tirana and the picturesque Berat. it is also a realism painting of the life of an immigrant woman making her new home in a foreign continent, foreign country and foreign city, and the duality of her new life vis-à-vis her roots. i feel that every person who’s moved to another country in search of a different life will relate somehow to the reflections made in this book. at least i did for certain.

I had been saying I'm in my worst reading slump this year. Challenged by heavy work load, information and content overload and the world in general burning to say the least; it's quite difficult to find time reading and focus. 'Misinterpretation' I devoured easily and delectably though. This novel gripped me from the start. a certified unputdown-able read, the best part about it is the writing itself. Ledia Xhoga is a very skillful, talented writer. Her perceptive descriptions of the day to day, mundane reality weaved with the contentious imaginary and some pleasant peculiarities reminded me of Murakami and Ogawa. I earmarked numerous pages containing wonderful musings and indelible imagery. The novel started with our protagonist and her work as an emphatic interpreter to Alfred, a political torture survivor, but ended with many life circumstances that she had been figuratively misinterpreting. Moreso, the novel presented these situations in a way that are open to the reader's interpretations as well. Billy is such a sweet character! I particularly love the American Bridge Man part. Zani is a surprising character as well. Alfred started as an interesting character, but we can see him fading towards the background as the protagonist shifts her perspective in life. I also adored how the novel maturely and realistically dealt with the intricacies of adult relationships. I would to be in a relationship after reading this. Haha! The last three to two pages are heart-racing!!!! I love these parts the best. No spoilers but unabashedly declaring that this is a fantastic read! Note that this is not a just a love story! It's a journey. A pool of string unraveling. A transformation laid before our very eyes, like seasons turning from winter to spring. P.S. This book is currently sitting at 3.5 at Goodreads, another reminder that you should not pick books based on Goodreads ratings. It’s a bookerprizes longlist pick, indulge! :)

A captivating narrative voice and multifaceted character point of view. The plot created tension and kept me guessing, and the explorations of trauma and of intimacy with a spouse were complex and sobering. The narrator (an interpreter) wants to do right by her clients, friends, and family, but she hasn't yet confronted or worked through (or even shared with those closest to her) her own past experiences that have left her in a state of unacknowledged grieving and misguided intentions. I appreciated the inclusion of Albanian language and culture and thought the author's depiction of what it's like to live away from your homeland was nuanced. There was something magnetic about the writing style.

Ishiguro has an unparalleled ability to craft dystopian societies which are simultaneously shocking and disorientating, yet oddly familiar -- they are believable because they take present values or ideas and stretch them to the extreme. He also has an unmatched ability to construct scenes in which misunderstandings cause conflict, so awkward and frustrating that the reader wishes they could intervene. Klara and the Sun imagines what the future of artificial intelligence and genetic-engineering could entail in this incredibly suspenseful novel which presents a myriad of ethical dilemmas without providing answers or solutions. This ambiguity is deliberate, encouraging the (probably pretty confused) reader to make rational connections between our present society and this imagined one. What steps would have to be taken right now to reach that state? I found the first 100 pages a little slow as the plot didn't seem to be developing any further than what the blurb described -- it was just a book about AI -- but stick with it, as the narrative soon unravels in subtle and complex ways.

I love a good robot story, and Ishiguro’s novel about an “artificial friend” to a sick young girl is no exception. Although it takes place in a dystopian future, the robots aren’t a force for evil. Instead, they serve as companions to keep people company. This book made me think about what life with super intelligent robots might look like—and whether we’ll treat these kinds of machines as pieces of technology or as something more.

Sometimes, you have to put your fate in the hands of the universe. I am not a person who believes in manifestation, or fate, or signs. I am not spiritual or mystical or otherwise kinda kooky. I do not know anything about astrology - I can barely remember my main one, and the words "moon" and "rising" make me break out in hives. But I do have one prevailing belief system in this life, and that is taking advantage of every book sale, even if you do not know the books-for-sale in question. When I happened upon a vaguely Black Friday-related book sale involving the words "buy 2, get 1 free," I blacked out immediately. I blindly navigated the universe until I had three paid-for books (at 66 point 6 repeating percent cost) and a receipt in my hand. This meant buying the following: - a book I didn't really like in a series I kind of did - a book I had previously had no intention of reading, but which was on many must-read-in-a-lifetime lists, one of my many weaknesses - this book, whose title sounded vaguely familiar, and whose cover I liked, but whose synopsis I knew literally nothing about. And yet...look how well it worked out for me. Another point for my personal religion. I did not at all care for the other book I've read by this author, but if you had told me there were two working authors named Kazuo Ishiguro and Never Let Me Go was by the boring one...well, minus the same very specific niche of sci-fi they both exist in, I wouldn't have known. Where that book bored me to a light and tender sleep, this was compelling always. While the writing of that one did nothing for me, I found this one pretty lovely. While the characters in that book instantly leapt out of my memory, these have lingered at least a little. And while the relationships and dynamics between those bozos were the worst part of Never Let Me Go, for me, they were the most interesting part of this. And okay, yes, this still dragged a little for me, and okay, yes, it wasn't perfect, and okay, yes, I'm simplifying how much I liked even the above list items for the sake of comparison... Even so, this was a nice boon to several clauses of my book beliefs, namely: a) read books that don't sound good to you b) read books by authors you haven't historically liked c) judge books by their covers d) judge books by their titles e) go in blind f) buy books, all the time, always, with any excuse or reason Bottom line: I love when things that should go wrong for me go right! ------------------ pre-review judging a book by its cover wins again. review to come / 3.5 stars ------------------ currently-reading updates you've heard of buying a book for its cover, but what about buying a book for its title / cover combo? clear ur shit book 33 quest 15: read a book with a female or non-binary MC ------------------ tbr review happy thanksgiving! i am thankful for the buy 2, get 1 free sale i acquired this during

If NEVER LET ME GO is your favorite Ishiguro, he is serving up something very similar here. Ishiguro can hop between genres, but this is surprisingly close to that familiar territory, though with enough differences to be its own unique thing. What you may recognize: the near-future setting that is mostly similar to the present but gradually we learn of some astonishing differences; the first-person narrator that is a kind of outsider who doesn't fully understand the world they live in; themes of loneliness and what makes a person human. Even the style of the prose is familiar, Klara and Kathy H. can feel quite similar sometimes. (I re-read NLMG just a few months ago so it's very fresh in my head.) With all that said, this is a slower book, one that focuses more on parents and children, and one that examines class. It's interesting to me that in NLMG and KATS, Ishiguro takes on two common tropes of science-fiction: clones and robots. He also both addresses and never addresses the most common questions books about them explore: whether and to what extent they are human. Here, Klara is our first-person narrator guiding us through the world and there is never a question that she feels empathy and hope. The book still explores the ways Klara sees the world, how she is more or less human, but it is not the book's central question, and yet it also is. As you'd expect if you have read Ishiguro, it's quite a delicate business, the way he works in his themes, and here he beats around the bush a little less. This is also quite slow, Klara's plot unfolds gradually but the real plot that Klara doesn't quite understand doesn't really unfold until nearly 80% of the way through the book. You definitely need to be ready to invest some time in this one. But it does all come together and from there it's quick. I wouldn't say this is up there with my favorite Ishiguro's--I still like NLMG better, I would say REMAINS OF THE DAY is my favorite but I haven't read it in at least a decade so I'm due for a refresh--for me it falls in the middle. But an Average Ishiguro is still something to be happy about.

There is so much nuance to this book I— I will come back with some more thoughts later but I really enjoyed this!

Klara is normally at the back of the store, but finally gets her big chance in the shop window and sees more of the world and soaks in empowering sun rays. When Klara is chosen by a little girl, she is warned not to invest too much in humanity. Klara is an AF, an Artificial Friend, an AI construct, an older model, but one with exceptional observation skills! The utter beauty of Ishiguro's speculative fiction works are that he has zero interest in the science and writes all about the emotion, thoughts, wants, needs etc. A wonderfully weighted tale delightfully told from the perspective of Klara, ultimately making her an unreliable but literal narrator? I have no doubt that now I am fully versed with this read I will Five Star my re-read, but there was so much mystery and nuance this read was all about discovery and acclimatisation. And to top all this off, Ishiguro, in this book is asking, what is love? Yet another haunting read of the same ilk as Never Let Me Go, a speculative fiction that dwarfs almost everything ever written in this genre for its focus on humanity and the world class writing. A 9.5 out of 12, Four Star read. 2023 read

The Nobel Laureate discussed his latest book on a Guardian Live event the evening of publication (with an audience of 3500+) – his first event of what he calls a virtual world book tour. Alex Clarke hosted with questions asked by pre-recorded video by Daisy Johnson, Bernardine Evaristo, David Mitchell and Emma Thompson. Here are my notes on the evening. The genesis of the story is a children’s story – for children of 5-6 years old that Ishiguro had developed. He has always been fascinated by the link between the hopeful and sweet illustrations and the text – which, with a wish not to deceive our children too much, hint partly at the darker side of reality. He ran the short story past his daughter (Naomi – of course a novelist in her own right) in 2014-15 and was hold he could go nowhere near children with it as he would traumatise her. The story was about a stuffed toy bought by a girl in a shop – the girl was not well and the two of them watch the Sun pass from one side of the room to the other. The novel is more optimistic than the original children’s story. The Science/Artificial Intelligence idea is something he is also interested in – and he felt if the book was in an adult part-dystopian world – the teddy bear could be an AI Robot. Ishiguro enjoys writing with a distanced or alienated narrator which allow him to bring an external perspective on humanity and to focus on the oddness of the narrator. Klara fits this well – her entire role is to prevent loneliness in teenagers so her entire focus (initially) is on loneliness and what it means in humanity. This approach – a distanced narrator - allows him to focus on the themes he wants to explore in an economical way. He does not think of the setting of this novel as dystopian in the same way as “Never Let Me Go” – this is a confused world, in flux and trying to work out how to re-organise itself in response to rapid technological change. Historically – effectively his first three novels - he had very stable backgrounds (country houses for example) and tended to focus his novel on the darker sides of humanity. He then had a (his words) “rather odd” midpoint of his career when he focused on dream-scapes. In his last three novels including this one - he has (which he thinks is a process of maturity) to have a darker background but in his novels to celebrate the better parts of humanity. Klara believes in some form of innate goodness – and focuses on the Sun as a benign presence. His narrators often do not realise how lost they are until much later in the novel – or how little they are in control of their emotions and decisions. A lot of his books feature narrators (Stevens, Kathy, and now Klara) who do not realise until later that what they consider their best efforts are part of something different and less benign. He likes this idea as it captures how difficult it is for all of us to get a real perspective on the present and metaphorically the reality of our own lives. His early novels were written by narrators looking back at their life – trying to make sense of their life and their decisions. As he himself has got older he has realised you don’t even really see a clear path even in retrospect where critical decisions and mistakes can be identified – he now realises luck and circumstance have much greater effect. So he know sees this as a convenient storytelling device but as something he no longer wants to rely on. As someone who explores themes (and sees settings as secondary) he feels he has the freedom to try genres. He described his like for genre as slightly childlike – and a little like someone who likes to try their hand at cooking different types of food, he enjoys trying his hands at different genres. He then finds that some of the constraints and forms of the genre give his ideas more strength. His early models for great artists are people who switch genres – he mentioned Dylan’s switch from folk to electric which he was “in awe“ of as a 14-15 year old (by which time Dylan’s greatness as someone who switched genres was already established) . He also mentioned Stanley Kubrick (horror, science fiction, cold war satire), Miles Davis, Picasso. From an early age he understood that great artistry meant moving on – after writing “Remains of The Day” he felt he needed to go on an electric tour and get boo-d by his previous fans – something that happened a little with “The Unconsoled”. He likes to mention Worcestershire in every novel. David Mitchell (at the time on tour for his debut novel “Ghostwritten” asked him why he always mentioned it) – at the time he did not recognise this (and still does not think he did it in his first novel) but as a result he chose to make this his signature (as standing for a traditional part of England). He always writes in a first person style, addressed to some form of audience, because he still thinks of himself as a folk singer/songwriter performing his songs to a small pub (which was his original impression) He tends to start his book with the ending as the after-effect of a book, the emotions and ideas a reader is left with after reading, is the crucial thing he is aiming it. He thinks too much critical writing advice concentrates on how you keep a reader engaged as they read the book – he is far more interested in how to stay in the mind of a reader long after they have finished the book. He is far more interested in longevity than engagement and as a result sacrifices something of the reading experience to achieve this. Last year has shown a clear divide between two different views: a rational, evidence based version of the truth and an emotional version of truth (where what you feel and believe to be true is true) – and this divide (shown between the science of COVID-19 and the reaction of Trump supporters to the election) has made him fundamentally question what he does. Does fiction even deserve a Nobel Prize – are artists and fiction writers on the wrong side of the fence of this divide over truth. Is it enough anymore to simply say fiction is important because it contains emotional truth (which is what he says in his Nobel acceptance speech).

I’m sitting here with a mind full of thoughts, but I can’t seem to form them into anything substantial. In truth, I think that’s the beauty of Ishiguro!

❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ Klara and the Sun presents its readers with a quiet yet touching meditation on life. In a similar fashion as Never Let Me Go Kazuo Ishiguro's foray into the speculative realm is deeply grounded in the mundane. Yet, in spite of its ordinary trappings, Klara and the Sun is a work that is brimming with ambiguities. Ishiguro excels at this type of narrative, ones in which ordinary scenes and interactions are interrupted by moments of unquiet. The near future of Klara and the Sun comes to us slowly, and even in the end, much of it remains unknown to us. Our narrator Klara, an Artificial Friend, an android whose primary function is that of providing companionship to children. From the confines of her store, Klara has but a limited view of the outside world. Through the store window, she watches passersby, taking notice of their behaviors, appearances, the emotions they seem to manifest. Klara reveres the Sun, which every day provides her with 'nourishment'. Klara is purchased as an AF for Josie, a girl afflicted by an unnamed illness. In her new home, Klara learns more about people and their incongruities. Klara's purpose is to be there for Josie, but, even she cannot seem to be of any help when it comes to Josie's illness. Josie, who lives with her mother (who Klara refers to as 'the mother') and their somewhat brusque housekeeper ('Melania housekeeper'). As time goes by, through Klara, we learn more about this near future. There are communities of post-employed, there are lifted and unlifted children, and both Josie and 'the mother' seem to have mysterious 'plans' up their sleeves. Klara's child-like narration belies her unsettling reality. From the way children treat their companions, to the lengths parents will go to provide their children with the best chance at succeeding in life, the world Klara witnesses is far from reassuring. In spite of its domestic setting, which takes us from the kitchen to the living room, and with the occasional foray into the outside, Ishiguro explores questions of love, freedom, and memory. And, of course, humanity. What makes us human? What makes me, me? Ishiguro provides no easy answers or solutions, depicting instead the different ways Klara and those around react to the same worries and fears. Klara is often a witness to crucial exchanges. Yet, her passive role does not mean that she is unable to understand a certain situation/conversation or the motivations and emotions of those involved. The simplicity, one could even say purity, of her voice might annoy some readers, especially those who are looking for more complex or ambivalent narrators. Still, I grew quite fond of her, and there were many instances in which she struck me as more human than the actual humans. One thing that I am unsure of is why Klara—who usually does not describe the physical appearance of others—noticed, in two different instances, that one of the people in her vicinity was Black. As far as I can remember, she does not comment on anyone else's race or ethnicity (we learn that Melania is European through her accented English and another mother making a comment about European housekeepers). Klara guesses Josie's friend's accent but only after talking to him. So why would an android who usually does not describe those around her as white or would notice that someone is Black? Was this Ishiguro pointing to this: Rise of the racist robots – how AI is learning all our worst impulses ? Or that Klara was designed after a white person or to have a white person’s perspective? Otherwise it just seems odd. There were also certain plot points that felt a bit too neat, especially towards the end. And while I am always appreciative of Ishiguro's prose, of his ability to capture ephemeral emotions and thoughts, of the ambiguous nature of his stories, I found myself wishing for more. Josie, alongside her mother and neighbors, never earned their way into my heart. That is to say, I felt at a distance from them. The tension between them was certainly palpable and well rendered but, ultimately, I found them somewhat dull. Although I wasn’t blown away by this novel I did overall enjoy it. Klara is the novel's star, and I found her to be a deeply compelling protagonist who challenged my notions of 'human'. Readers who prefer faster-paced narratives may want to give this one a large berth but if you were a fan of Never Let Me Go you might find this to be just as gripping (I, for one, finished in less than 24 hours). re-read: ishiguro's surreal realism is lulling indeed. some of the dialogues may sound slightly off but, given the dystopianesque setting, i didn't particularly mind. josie was annoying as f*ck, and i get that she's sick however that doesn't entirely exonerate her from her sh*tty behaviour. melania teetered on being rather stereotypical, and i am a bit tired of british/american authors (or authors who write in english) who throw into their story mix a character, often in the form of a brusque older woman, from an unspecified 'eastern european' country as a source of humor because their english is (supposedly) 'funny' and their un-english ways are (supposedly) just as 'funny'. this aside, i still found this to be a thought-provoking read that gives way to questions about human nature, freedom, and altruism. ishiguro also incorporates many discussions and scenarios about the difficulties of parenting and of being parented (with the children having often no choice in decisions that will affect them for the rest of their lives, or being kept in the dark about matters that directly concern them).

One hundred years ago, a play titled “R.U.R.,” by Karel Capek, debuted in Prague and gave us the word “robot.” Since then, androids have been dreaming of electric sheep, and we’ve been having nightmares about the robot apocalypse. But calamity rarely comes in the neat, clarifying ways we fear. Leave it to Kazuo Ishiguro to articulate our inchoate anxieties about the future we’re building. “Klara and the Sun,” his first novel since winning the Nobel Prize in 2017, is a delicate, haunting story, steeped in sorrow and hope. Readers still reeling from his 2005 novel “Never Let Me Go” will find here a gentler exploration of the price children pay for modern advancements. But if the weird complications of technology frame the plot, the real subject, as always in Ishiguro’s dusk-lit fiction, is the moral quandary of the human heart. Klara, the narrator of this genre-straddling novel, is an Artificial Friend (AF), a popular class of androids designed to provide companionship to teenagers. Why young people would need artificial companionship is one of the chilling questions that Ishiguro raises but postpones so naturally that the horror feels almost incidental. When we meet Klara, she (it?) is on display in something like the Apple Store, an elegant retail shop catering to well-heeled parents. Older AFs such as Klara rotate with the latest models, competing for attention based on their specifications and social cachet. Klara’s particular skill is. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...

My review of this book revolves around 3 facts: 1. “Klara and the Sun” found its first incarnation in the form of a children’s story. When the author ran the concept for the story past his daughter (Naomi Ishiguro), however, she cautioned him that the tale would only traumatize young readers. Ishiguro thus reworked the story as a novel for adults. The story’s provenance, however, has lingering effects. The writing is guileless and unadorned, and Klara – the solar-powered android from whose perspective we observe the world – retains a naivety in her deduction processes that mimics the logic of a child. She has been coded as a companion, an “artificial friend” (AF), to help homeschooled children improve their social interaction skills in preparation for college. Her wish is to be “as kind and helpful an AF as possible”. In many ways, “Klara and the Sun” retains the feel of a children’s book – presenting a slightly sanitized, innocent version of the world – but one that progressively hints at the darkness within it. 2. In a recent interview Ishiguro confessed that he tends to write the same book over and over: “Some novels are just rewrites of a previous book because I wanted to revisit that terrain and explore it slightly differently, or there was something not quite right about the last book, so I wanted to do it again. But in a different genre or setting.” While I have only read Never Let Me Go and The Remains of the Day, I can see how Klara and Sun is like a continuation to both books, tackling themes of duty, service and sacrifice, within overarching constructs of class and inequality. The narrators of all three books are outsiders, socially distinct from those they serve, lacking in freedom and autonomy – and all three are involved in sinister sub plots they unwittingly contribute to. Much of the book’s tension relies on this careful balance of the revealed and the concealed, with pieces of the puzzle emerging at strategic moments of the story (Ishiguro is a master at drip-fed signposting). 3. The author has also emphasized that he is more interested in the lingering after-effects of a book, rather than the reading experience itself – the moods and ideas the reader is left with on turning the last page - and this is where he shines as a writer. Kathy H of Never Let Me Go and Stevens of The Remains of the Day are characters that have negotiated a place in the literary afterlife of my mind. They have, for want of a better phrase, refused to let me go. As an android, Klara’s perspective can feel at times too tidy and too symmetrical, yet her sincerity makes her a uniquely memorable narrator – a contrast dye injected into the general apathy of contemporary culture. Mood: Mysterious and fable-like Rating: 8/10 Also on Instagram.

3.5 stars: “Klara and the Sun” by Kazuo Ishiguro is an interesting story told by Klara, who is basically a robot. Ishiguro provides his writing the freedom of telling his story through innocent, non-emotional insights by using Klara. Klara is an AF, and Artificial Friend. Think of Rosie in the Jetsons. Klara is a humanoid machine, built for the sole purpose of companionship. The story begins with Klara in a toy store. Klara’s favorite spot is being in the window of the store. This position allows Klara to see humans and watch their behaviors. With Klara’s observations, she intends to use these bites of information to be the best possible AF. A sickly girl, Josie, comes into the store and falls in love with Klara. Time doesn’t allow for her to purchase Klara, and Josie promises to come back to get her. Josie’s illness is a mystery until later in the story. The reader knows that some children have been “lifted” and are in a better position to go to college, gain employment, and be successful. What is involved in being lifted is only alluded to, by Josie’s mother. Josie does come back and purchases Klara, but only after Josie’s mother makes Klara pass a test. The mother’s interest in Klara’s find tuned observations is what allows Josie to get Klara. Once at home with Josie, Klara makes many interesting observations of Josie’s homelife and social life. Some observations are perplexing to Klara and allows Ishiguro to provide some subtle humor. Josie begins to experience more sick days. Klara is solar powered, and because of this, she adores the sun. In fact, she comes up with the idea of providing gifts to the sun to help Josie. In Klara’s view, the sun is all powerful, and provides the source of life. Ishiguro writes a futuristic story about artificial intelligence taking over the workplace and going as far as “buying” friends for your child. This story is about how far our society could go in creating robots to replace humans. Yet, there is a question of the basic human emotion: love. Can an artificial intelligent being provide and receive love? I enjoyed this story. It does provide some fodder with regard to how far humans should be replaced. This is borderline sci-fi, similar to “Never Let Me Go.” There were no robots in that story, but he questioned how far we could go in procuring future health. I listened to audio production, narrated by Sura Siu.

4.5 Stars This was a quiet, yet compelling piece of literary science fiction. I loved how the artificial intelligent doll was used to provide an outsider's perspective on this futuristic version of society. The conversation surrounding personhood and genetic enhancements were extremely compelling. While this is technically a piece of science fiction, it reads more like literary fiction, exploring the nature of humanity rather than a science idea. The narrative is very slow and at times a bit underwhelming. Yet, overall I found this story very beautiful and really enjoyed the reading experience.

Review posted on blog: https://books-are-a-girls-best-friend... Klara, I simply do not know how to express my love for you. Though you are an AI, you are the epitome of what it means to be human. Kind, caring, thoughtful, intuitive, insightful, observant, and benevolent, you are everything we should strive to be and more. Klara is an AF, an Artificial Friend, chosen as a companion for Josie, who needs Klara by her side, in a myriad of ways. Though Klara, an AF, is not supposed to have feelings, she demonstrates a worldliness and a brilliance that shows that she has more emotion inside of her than anyone could ever imagine. Klara gains strength and power from the sun and she believes that it can aid in more ways than one. Those around her, gain strength and power from her and learn what humanity is all about. To say that I adored this book, does not display more feelings for it. There is affection, fondness, warmth, and then there is my attachment to Klara. What Kazuo Ishiguro has done here is simply astounding and makes me wonder why this is only the second book of his that I have read of his, the first being, Never Let Me Go. What is even more astonishing is that I loved Never Let Me Go even more than this book, which seems impossible, and yet the character of Kathy has stayed with me in the years since I read that in 2012 and I’ve never forgotten her or that story. A favorite to add to my Goodreads Best of list for 2021. 4.5 Stars Published on Goodreads, and Twitter

[21st book of 2021. Artist for this review is, none other than, Pablo Picasso.] 3.5. So, Ishiguro’s eighth novel. I’ve been expectantly waiting this, having read the previous seven. His two best books remain his two best books in my eyes, unchanged by this novel: The Remains of the Day and The Unconsoled. The latter could be his magnum opus, but I am often reluctant to declare such things with conviction (after all, it only takes some rain to change the whole feeling of a book). We return again to the science fiction genre with Ishiguro as we did in Never Let Me Go, and this one certainly feels similar in a way, certainly in tone. Klara’s voice isn’t hugely dissimilar to Kathy’s, but don’t let me simplify it, Ishiguro is doing something very interesting with her narrative voice, a few things, actually. I read, I think, in a Guardian review, that one could see Ishiguro’s three “genre” novels (Never Let Me Go, The Buried Giant and now this) as a thematic trilogy: memory, the self, relationships… These things reoccur. “Le Rêve”—1932 [I’ve had the pleasure of seeing this (and the final painting in the review) in person at a Picasso exhibition, which my father took me to for my 21st birthday.] Like Never Let Me Go, we see a familiar, but also unfamiliar world, through the eyes of a naïve narrator. Klara is an AF, a “robot”; Ishiguro is taking on the large and ever growing (fear?) of AI technology. British writer Ian McEwan had his stab in 2019 with Machines Like Me, which, considering I don’t like McEwan much, wasn’t bad. Ishiguro and McEwan featured in Granta’s best young British novelists in 1983, which is why I bring the latter up. They are photographed below along with many other familiar faces: Martin Amis, William Boyd, Pat Barker, Julian Barnes, Graham Swift, etc. Ishiguro is in the front row, sporting a rather interesting moustache. (Interestingly, Ishiguro appeared again in Granta’s 20 Best of Young British Novelists in 1993 too.) “Twenty Under Forty”—so it was titled, though not all are photographed. I’m digressing though. Let’s get into the book itself. Klara and the Sun is mysterious and engaging right from the beginning. Ishiguro uses many invented terms and throughout the novel some things are never overtly explained; rather than dumping us with classic science-fiction exposition, Ishiguro allows us to work it out for ourselves. Characters use oblongs, which they can talk into, have lessons from teachers through… The oblong seemed to me a little like Ishiguro’s iPad. There are the AFs, their obsession/desire/true need for the Sun (I’m leaving all things open in the review), a Cootings Machine… Klara does not understand everything, we are in the hands of an unreliable narrator. One of the most strangest things about the novel’s voice is the unexplained lens we see through: Klara’s vision of the world is almost like a Cubist painting (hence my odd artist choice for this review); I am no technology genius, actually quite the opposite, but I presumed it had something to do with her seeing the world through pixels. That’s my best explanation to the best of my understanding; of course, Klara also isn’t real. Most of the book’s propulsion comes from Klara’s lack of understanding, her naivety to knowledge. Ishiguro calls it a “hopeful” book; I think there are elements of hopefulness but I was also surprised by a certain feeling of menace and unease that ran through the novel, some of which manifested itself. But, I don’t want to spoil anything. “Portrait of Ambroise Vollard”—1910 It’s touched upon briefly but Ishiguro doesn’t transparently go down the supposed route: he strays mostly clear of the concept of “souls” and if robots have “souls” and though it does come up and is part of the plot in a sense, it never feels banal. Really, above all, this book is fairly original and that is perhaps what surprised me most. It felt quite fresh. The writing was easy, and because of Klara’s narrative voice I suppose it felt less “literary” (whatever that means) than some of his other novels. I've seen some people call it YA in writing which I find unfair, as we are experiencing the world through Klara's naive and limited emotional-range. We know Ishiguro can write from his previous novels, I think he is trying something else here. “Girl Before a Mirror”—1932 The crux of this slightly rambling review is that I wasn’t disappointed, and even as an Ishiguro fan, I was slightly expecting to be. It is a good novel, not his best, not his worst. I’m only thankful we’ve been gifted Ishiguro as a novelist of our time—Granta were right.

In the perhaps not so distant future, artificial life forms are purchased by privileged parents for teens to prevent their loneliness and help them transition to adulthood. Biotechnology has also gained the ability to enhance children through gene editing (a process called “lifting”). Society is being bifurcated into those that can or choose (or not) to take advantage of these options. The difference of opinion about the value or the harm is deftly handled without interrupting the plot or story. Our perspective comes from Klara, the “artificial friend” (AF) chosen by and for Josie, and bought by her mother, Chrissie. Rick, Josie’s “unlifted” neighbor and intimate childhood friend, round out the main cast. Klara’s meditations and thought processing, her integration and separateness as a member of the family and their social circle, her deification of the Sun and her relationship to it, help us consider consciousness and what makes a being special or worthy. Love, loyalty, compassion, kindness, ruthlessness…. Chrissie’s hidden purpose for Klara’s purchase makes this exploration even more profound. The issue of exploitation and disposability of community members that Ishiguro contemplated with Never Let Me Go is taken up here in another tack, though quite differently. His ambiguity about the ethics, making us think about it for ourselves, is surely a call to consider how we personally must or should perhaps change as our technology allows us to add new members into our ranks, and even the different levels and castes of our current social makeup, and whom we deem “worthy”. Thought provoking and troubling. A great read. 4 and 1/2 stars.

I listened to the audiobook of Klara and the Sun by Kazuo Ishiguro. Although Klara and the Sun took me completely out of my comfort zone for the kind of books I usually like to read, I absolutely adored every minute of this book. It was brilliantly narrated by Sura Siu. A colleague of mine at my school recommended Klara and the Sun to me. She thought that I would love it and boy was she right! I went in blind and was glad that I did. The character of Klara, an Artificial Friend (AF) captured my heart immediately. The story enfolded slowly but there was just enough to keep me totally invested and wanting more. Klara was a solar powered AF who was programmed to exhibit kindness and recognize it in others. She was programmed to process extraordinary observational qualities. What young girl wouldn’t want a friend like that in her corner? Klara and the Sun was a touching, beautiful and moving story. It explored and tried to figure out the aspects of hope and sadness, love, loneliness and above all life. Klara and the Sun was haunting yet intriguing as it explored what it was like to be human. Author, Kazuo Ishiguro’s prose was masterfully written, authentic and processed a thought provoking quality. Kazuo Ishiguro had not been on my radar up until now. Even though he had been awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature and the Booker Prize, I had thought that his style of writing was not for me. Boy was I mistaken! I look forward to reading Never Let Me Go and The Remains of the Day in the near future. I highly recommend this book.

I read The Remains of the Day ages ago and struggled to stay engaged. So I was expecting something just as sludgy, but this one was endearing and Klara is full of darling earnestness. I loved it.

4ish stars. Ishiguro is never short on ideas. He's as creative as they come and his works always have layers upon layers. There's so much to reflect on and discuss. Of course, part of this is because he leaves out so many details and explanations. Intentionally? Probably. I also love his characters, but again, most of them are opaque and cold. Possibly because Ishiguro is pretty bad at writing dialogue. But possibly because Klara, as an artificial being, is never completely capable of understanding and relating to human inner thoughts and emotional struggles, despite the fact that Mr. Capaldi asserts that there is nothing about human behavior which cannot be simulated perfectly. And while Klara herself develops growth and complexity, she is never capable of hiding anything, of keeping any part of herself and treasuring it privately and intimately which, in my opinion, prevents her from becoming truly relatable. “There was something very special, but it wasn't inside Josie. It was inside those who loved her.” I love that quote, but I feel it has two very distinct meanings. Still, while The Mother is adamant that "Klara deserves better," (view spoiler) she gets a bittersweet ending, but one that lends itself to a lot of theory and discussion. Posted in Mr. Philip's Library

Longlisted for the 2022 Republic of Consciousness Prize Longlisted for the 2022 International Booker Prize “Derivatives” no longer referred only to the future value of a sack of flour or a ton of rice, but to anything: the price indexes of raw materials, interest-rate differentials, exchange rates, credit scores of entire corporations and nations, obviously all in the future. And they were cross‑linked and interwoven and resold in large bundles, “future on future,” Alvin said, handing me a paper towel. “Forget about the forces of the free market, my friend. Commodity prices no longer refer to any value, past or present—they’re just ghosts from the future.” After the Sun is Sherilyn Nicolette Hellberg’s translation of Jonas Elka’s Danish original Efter Solen, a collection of 5 (or arguably 4) stories. This is the latest novel from the exciting small independent press Lolli Editions, shortlisted for the International Booker in 2021 for The Employees. They specialise (although not exclusively) in translations from the Danish and their mission in their own words: We publish contemporary fiction that challenges existing ideas and breathes new life into the novel form. Our aim is to introduce to English-language readers some of the most innovative writers that speak to our shared culture in new and compelling ways, from Europe and beyond. The original collection won the highly prestigious Nordic Council Literature Prize in 2019. The judges’ citation referred to Elka as a: young author whose collection of short stories has surprised and enthralled the jury with its global perspective, its sensual and imaginative language, and its ability to speak about contemporary political challenges without the reader feeling in any way directed to a certain place. Eika writes about a recognizable reality, regardless of whether we’re in Copenhagen, Mexico, or Nevada, and whether we’re among financial speculators, homeless boys, or people who believe in aliens. There is a real sense of poetic magic. Reality opens into other possibilities; other dimensions. There is something wonderful and hopeful in it that reminds us how literature can do more than just mirror what we already know. That poetic magic extends not just to the settings of the stories but also the language, which, in Hellberg’s translation as, I believe, the original, is at times disconcertingly offbeat. As Elka explained to the New Yorker (https://www.newyorker.com/books/this-... I always try to work a subtle strangeness, or even ineptitude, into my writing, even when it’s quite literary, and Sherilyn picked up on that. The collection is bookended by two stories, or rather one split into two parts, “Bad Mexican Dog.” It is narrated by a 15 year old beachboy, one who claims to have worked in Morocco and France among other countries, but is now working at an establishment in Cancun, serving the wealthy tourists who come seeking the sun and then, as he observes to a colleague, doing their best to avoid it with parasols, sunshades etc. I read this on a day of thunderstorms in Barbados where we carried-on on the beach as if the sun were still beating down, so this rather struck home: There's a sweet, heavy, electric smell of thunder and sweat. There's a time, between when the rain appears in the clouds and when it hits their bodies, that the guests refuse to believe it. They're still lying there, in 24 rows of 20, with glossy tanned stomachs and sunglasses on because they've paid to lie in the sun. The drops fall and prick the sand dark, shattered by the plastic of the beach chairs, multi-plying, impossible to tell apart from the sea and the sky and the beach. The guests cling to the shafts of their parasols, but the white fabric is quickly soaked and dripping. 'Parasols look ridiculous without the sun,' Jia says, laughing. 'They're completely beside themselves.' The guests look in our direction for help, but when it's raining we're supposed to leave them to themselves. But this is far from a conventional satire of modern tourism. The narrator is involved in an involved scam with two tourists (the story also includes a section from their perspective), essentially filming them humiliating him, that gives the stories their name, and the beach boys have their own elaborate ceremony that explains the title of the overall collection: When we were done getting dressed, our shells on dicks ribbed and prickling in spines of jelly on the sandy ground, we went down to the beach carrying buckets of living water. Black sky and sand illuminated by the reddish glow of the beach chairs, which had absorbed the sun's rays in their grid-work. In the sand we dug a circular basin a little larger than a parasol and filled it up with living water: dim orange, viscous, full of milky eggs with veins. It was steaming in the cool air. Around the basin we planted four parasols upside down in the sand, twisting them down into the viscous layers. The shafts protruding a hand's length above the sand, we greased them with after-sun before we lowered ourselves to straddle them. We threw a beach chair into the basin and sang: After the sun, after the sun / things are beside themselves / quiet, futile, set free / into the unknown life we're asking about / Why does the vulture always start with the eyes? / Which sides of you didn't we see / beach chair, after-sun, Para-sun / making the best of the things that are / after the sun, after the sun ... Dawn is coming: a dim light-blue shimmer that merges with the earth's shadow, the dark sky. The earth is turning a new side to the sun, but slowly, reluctantly, doubting. It isn't morning. Alvin is set in Copenhagen and the world of financial derivatives (see the opening quote). The narrator, Danish but living in Spain, returns to the city to install an operating system at a bank only to find it has literally collapsed - the building sinking into the ground. Bereft of accommodation (he was supposed to stay onsite) the narrator is taken home by the eponymous Alvin, an independent derivatives trader and market manipulator. The fascinating story later takes them to Romania. Me, Rory and Aurora has the narrator as the third person in a relationship between a couple living in a run-down and near future, East-end of London, dealing a type of recreational drug that they sell to addicts in rehab, one that enhances their appreciation of the religious services that provide an alternative to their life. Vowels, that’s what we called those pills, because they softened you up and made you receptive, starting with a round feeling and a light in your mouth, your throat, your belly and so on, until your whole body was a glowing processor just waiting for data, which is probably why the City Church was the perfect market; affiliated with the rehab centre, it was full of addicts who had turned to God, or we’re trying to. Rachel, Nevada is set in the real-life small town of that name, the nearest inhabited place to the highly classified USAF base Area 51 and hence a favourite of UFOlogists. The narrator and his wife found themselves drawn to the area after both their daughters died of cancer. But the narrator has discovered an object he calls the Sender, one that seems to send signals to the native wildlife, and he decides on a drastic cause of action to merge it into his own body: Suddenly his windpipe popped out of the wet flesh, distended and fluted with cartilage. Feeling his own breathing flow against his index finger through a thin wall — combined with the almost electric pain in his severed nerve endings — filled him with an animate nausea, an appetite he hadn't felt since he was young. Wind passed through the open wound, thick as water. He raised his head and looked at the Sender, just like Fay and the others in the audience were looking at Karen Ruthio — how was a voice like that coming out of a seventy-nine-year-old woman? The scream was still a mystery to him, that dark, metallic tone that sounded like dissonance in itself, as if it were out of tune with the world. He hadn't been able to scream that scream since that day almost three years ago when it suddenly quivered inside his throat. Not because it was outside the range of his vocal cords, but because it was located somewhere in the depth between two frequencies, a secret gap that broke with the mathematical principles they had always followed. One day, almost a year ago, after screaming at the Sender for 111 hours, he squeezed himself between the mammals and laid his forehead against it. Through its outer, fungal layers he felt a weak vibration, deep and metallic like the scream, and suddenly knew that he needed to have some of it inside him. That the scream could only be produced by the specific composition of the Sender, which was both malleable and very hard. Overall a powerful and unsettling collection and one that serves Lolli Editions brief to challenge conventional story telling. One to watch for the 2022 International Booker.

I can’t give this five stars because I strongly disliked most of the story “Rachel, Nevada.” I can’t give this two or three stars because I can’t stop thinking about the other stories. I’m giving it four stars because the writing was phenomenal and I full-on loved two of the stories: “Alvin” and “Me, Rory, and Aurora.” To be honest, I found this collection fascinating even though it was frustrating and “nonsensical” a lot of the time. This writer intrigues me.

When I want to learn about world events and political revolutions there's a reason why I don't only read newspaper articles and history books. There's so much more to a country, its people and their culture than can be found in facts. “The Enlightenment of the Greengage Tree” describes an Iranian family splintered apart by the country's 1979 Islamic Revolution. They flee their home in Tehran and settle in a small village with the hope of continuing their lives in relative peace but find the new regime imposes changes which hinder or end their lives. The novel doesn't shrink from the brutality of what happens to people who are imprisoned, murdered or suffer wider violence because their beliefs and opinions run counter to the new order. But it also fills these stories with fantastic occurrences including encounters with jinns and a girl who morphs into a mermaid. These tales which draw upon Persian mythology are a way for the characters to process what's happening to them but they also keep their culture alive when it's being quashed by an enforced monotheistic government. A character named Beeta comments “when life is so deficient and mundane why shouldn't imagination supplement reality to liven it up?” So this novel's method of telling also produces an enthralling and beautifully inventive story. Read my full review of The Enlightenment of the Greengage Tree by Shokoofeh Azar on LonesomeReader

The Enlightenment of the Greengage Tree is the story of a family of five set during the Iranian Revolution of 1979 and the years afterwards. It combines the brutal reality of injustice, loss and grief with fable-like magical elements complete with jinns, ghosts, prophesies and even a mermaid. I am finding it a difficult book to rate. There were passages that were, for me, breathtaking and amazing and worthy of five stars. However, during some of the lengthy forays into mysticism and magic, I found my attention wandering and quite honestly I felt bored and wanting to skim read. I do wonder if I just wasn't quite "in the mood" for magical realism and that's why it just wasn't really hitting the spot for me. Your mileage may vary, and this is definitely an interesting and worthy book. I have plumped for 4 stars.

I was very quickly pulled into this book and for the most part seamlessly travelled between the realistic part of the story and parts where the author shifted into the character's imagination. Azar uses the lyrical magic realism style of classical Persian storytelling to tell the story of a family of five in the period immediately after the 1979 Islamic revolution and the story is narrated by the spirit of the 13 year old daughter. She wrote the story, inspired by and in an attempt to answer this question: Can we survive without passion and hope in a religious dictatorial system? By letting go of the need to have all of the story narrated in the realistic voice, we hang loosely onto the storyline and then detach, like a kite being given more length of string high above, before being pulled back to ground. Until it got to Beeta's metamorphosis around page 178 and I felt my own mind spinning, trying to stay with it, wondering what was happening. I almost felt defeated, and then arrived that wonderful moment of clarification, when the father is forced to write and as readers we are given a little more insight into the reality we have been protected from and how the imagination carries us through it, and though we might question what was real and what wasn't, it no longer matters, because we understand. And I just LOVE that this appears on page 222. Dad wrote everything again. This time he cut out all the parts he had realized were incomprehensible to their stale minds, and embellished here and there to make it thoroughly believable. This made me very curious to understand more about the Persian style of storytelling, whether this was just the author's imagination or something that was inherent in the culture she came from. And this is one of the reasons I just love reading translated fiction, because of the gift of this kind of insight into another culture's storytelling and way of thinking and coping with the often harsh reality of life. Asked in an interview with the LARB (LA Review of Books) about her use of magical realism, Azar said: Magical realism comes from an old or ancient deep-seated insight. It is more than a literary style that you can learn at university or from the books. I did not learn it only by reading magic realism modern fictions, but I also learned from mythic texts, Persian classic texts, and my own people’s culture. People of old or ancient cultures sometimes seek the metaphysical solution for realistic problems. And it has nothing to do with superstition or religion. If you learn to look at these beliefs in the right way and deeply, you can find the roots of myths, and important and beautiful meanings in these beliefs. I highlighted so many passages, too numerous to include, but leave you with this one: I looked at the eyes of the ghosts sitting around the fire and at Beeta, and suddenly I realized that we dead are the sorrowful part of life, while the living are the joyful side of death. And yet, Beeta was not joyful and it was the sad side of life that she didn't even know she should be joyful in life because there was nothing else she could do. I wanted to tell her this, but was afraid of bringing her damaged spirit down even further. Fortunately, she herself eventually spoke and said, "It seems that from among you, I am the more fortunate because nobody killed me. But I don't feel happy at all." She looked at we who had died. The dead who had been the first to meet her in the world of the living outside Razan. An old man in the group responded, "This is because you don't yet realize how beautiful, young, and healthy you are." Beeta smiled and her cheeks reddened by the light of the fire in silent emotion; and all of us who were dead saw how good the smile looked on her. But as she recalled dark memories, her smile faded and she said, "But the man who loved me simply turned his back on me and married a young girl." The middle-aged man said, "All the better! It means you were lovable enough but he wasn't smart enough to realize it." This is one of those books that demands perseverance, for which we are warmly rewarded when we do so. I am pleased to read that she is at work on a second novel in a similar style which creates and will attempt to answer the question: Can true love exist in a religious dictatorship in which the body and love are censored? When you are not allowed to love your body and mind, can you truly be in love with another’s body and mind?

Roughly midway through the novel a character makes reference to ‘One Hundred Years of Solitude’ and the reader can sense the influence of Marquez and magical realism throughout the story. Ostensible the novel follows the story of an Iranian family following the revolution, yet Azar chooses to interweave elements of fantasy into the story. One of the key elements of magical realism is that the fantastical elements of the stories are nowhere near as surreal as the reality they depict, a reality of political violence and vituperation and this is no less true of and Iran which has become intoxicated with religious fervour and intolerance and which seeks to erase the richness if its past beneath the myopic gaze of religious fundamentalism. The story if principally told from the point-of-view of Bahar, a ghost who haunts the lives of her family as they slowly disappear and disintegrate beneath the relentless machinery of the Iranian state; her brother is mistakenly imprisoned and ends up dead, her father’s imprisonment leads to his descent into madness, with her mother disappearing into the wilderness and her sister transforming into a mermaid. The novel is at its best when Azar interweaves Persian mythology or fables into the story, as in her depictions of her encounters with other ghosts she encounters, however the intermittent collisions with reality are also particularly jarring for this reason and can come across as somewhat contrived; it is a difficult task to convincingly combine fantasy and reality and Azar’s frequent asides on the Iranian regime can sometimes come across as sententious and artificial. ‘The Enlightenment of the Greengage Tree’ is an interesting and original exploration of the Iranian revolution; don’t come to the novel expecting to learn more about the revolution and how it came about, instead be prepared to be swept away in the endless stream of Persian mythology and history with which Azar submerges the reader, a culture which is drowned forever beneath the torrents of fervour and fundamentalism.

My video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ATZ8p...

I liked this story, and I'm a magical realism nut (One Hundred Years of Solitude is my second favorite book of all time), but I never found myself fully loving this. I admire it and I learned a lot from it, but I never found myself totally immersed or enamored with what I was reading. There are quite a few sets of imagery that'll stay locked in my memory, but overall I did find the magical realism bits to be very typical of the genre: nothing truly surprised me. And the episodic structure made the narrative feel a bit disjointed. The historical elements worked so much better than the magical realism. I'd recommend this book (it is a good book), but I didn't love it as much as I thought I would.

What if ghosts are just people who resisted death? Shokoofeh Azar’s The Enlightenment of the Greengage Tree feels like an extended meditation on that question. Set against the backdrop of post-revolution Iran, it is a novel where the dead never really leave, myths take root in everyday life, and grief demands its own mythology to be bearable. The writing is luminous—brilliantly camouflaging the horrors of massacre with prose so rich in magic that you sometimes forget the blood underneath. Myths, djinns, and mythical creatures become more than literary devices; they are survival strategies. When reality becomes too cruel, the stories we invent begin to hold us, even when they terrify us. Because sometimes, the stories we tell ourselves are more frightening than reality itself. I found myself blissfully lost in this mythical Iran—floating alongside ghosts, crossing paths with djinns, and listening to whispers of ancient folklore. The narrative is an unsettling account of wonder and brutality, beauty and despair, woven together with an elegance that constantly disarms. Azar shows us how myth doesn’t just embellish reality; it reshapes it. It softens the unbearable, disguises trauma with enchantment, and leaves the reader suspended between sorrow and awe. Not always easy to read, but unforgettable.

#persianliterature Bored of everyday stories, my kiddo wanted to hear a Fairy tale concocted by me. Haaa..how difficult can that be All you need is some magic, some good, some evil, & definitely a "Once upon a time" that ends with a "happily ever after" While it was easy to create one from the comfort of my bed & blanket, I shudder to think how Shokoofeh Azar would have created her version of this magical tale, where there is only some good, lot more evil, a 'once upon a time' that never ends & 'a happily ever after' that only exists after the end of life Set in Iran, in the times after the Islamic revolution of 1979, it's the story of a family that gets destroyed The story starts with a dual narrative where a son is being executed while a mother sees this in her vision, atop a Greengage tree Sister Bahar is burned down in the cellar along with the house that was a treasure repository of Rumi, Hafeez, Khyyam. There was Shakespeare, Homer, Orwell, Dostoevsky Totalitarian regime establishing power by destroying Books, Art, Music It's Bahar's ghost that further narrates the story of the devastated parents, sister Beeta, brother Sohrab, & their lovers. To imagine a ghost narrating the story indicates how oppression can't silence even the dead I think I will never forget the graphic assault scene of the mermaid Beeta. The conversations convicts have about her are such stark reminders of trauma so many women face in all war ridden countries I firmly believe that Sanskrit is the language of Gods, similarly Persian is the language of Poets Hence this poetry by Azar is full of magical realism, symbolism, metaphors. It showcases people's resilience in times of political oppression I have definitely missed out so much in my 1st read. But I also believe some texts are not to be understood in it's entirety but only to be flowed with Kudos to Azar for writing this work, although I wish her people & likes of her hadn't gone through this unjust. Also gratitude to the unknown translator who preferred to forgo credit but chose to translate the work Not an easy work to follow but an important work indeed Read it for sheer power of story telling Quotes 1) It's life's failure and its deficiencies that make someone a daydreamer. I don't understand why prophets and philosophers didn't see the significance in that. I think imagination is at the heart of reality, or at least, is the immediate definition and interpretation of reality" 2) With each word committed to paper we understood that, contrary to what Dad believed, culture, knowledge, and art retreat in the face of violence, the sword and fire—and for years after, remain barren and mute. 3) Once your eyes get accustomed to seeing violence in city streets and squares, they can only become more accustomed.

Wow! Okay! I don’t know what I have to feel about this book. Did I like it? Mostly I did. But as soon as I finish, I felt like something missing. Maybe I didn’t like how the things ended for the characters and I wished alternate solutions for their stories. I enjoyed the writing and intercepted lives of two female protagonists, the development and progression, objective and genuine approach of racism, diversity, hypocritical attitudes of the people. At the end of the story I lost my love for Alixa and wanted to kick her ass so bad and shook Emira’s shoulders so hard to force her get a grip. I still stick with 3.5 stars and of course I will round them up to 4 because the story really got imprinted on my mind and I wanted to learn what’s gonna happen , how the interwoven relationship dynamics will change the characters’ lives and what kind of revelations will come out. So we have a privileged, wealthy, blogger Alixa Chamberlain, living her dream life but it’s still something missing about her. She’s insecure, not quite satisfied with her new appearance after having her new baby, questioning her life choices. Our other protagonist Emira Tucker, nanny ( correction: babysitter as Alixa calls he, making her wear a uniform, yes like younger version of Viola Davis from “Help” movie) of Alixa’s elder daughter Briar, trying so hard to make her ends meet by working at two jobs and pushing hard to pay her rent and keep her health insurance. One day, at eleven p.m. Alixa calls Emira urgently to take her daughter to the grocery store.(Awkward request alert! Of course nothing good will come out after strange demands) So Emira leaves her friends, still wearing her party clothes and a little tipsy to help her employers but surprisingly security guard at the grocery store interrogates her and gets suspicious that she kidnapped Briar. As soon as Alixa’s husband Peter arrives to the store, the problem solves and Emira wants to forget all of this humiliated misunderstanding even though somebody filmed everything to make things right and emailed the video to her. Then that somebody from the grocery store runs into Emira at the train: a good looking, tall, witty man named Kelley and they start to see each other. So as you may imagine even the one of the worst nights of her life helps her to meet with her new boyfriend. But well… this coincidental beginning and her humiliating experience will be the key of Pandora’s box and helps all hell breaks loose. It will affect both of Emira and Alixa’s lives. Alixa is selfish, insecure and a little immature character. Most of the book I loved her craziness, her passionate approach to Emira which makes her cross the line between protectiveness and obsessiveness. But at the end some big revelations about her made me lose my sympathy for the character and as some parts I found Emira, a little lost, aimless, confused. If she was younger than 25, I may understand how she lost the tracks of her own life or if there was any tragic background story tells that why she prefers only existing instead of finding her passion about life. Overall: I loved the pure, objective, riveting writing style and the author’s approach to the sensitive matters. I partly loved the characters and their relationship dynamics, the big revelations and the story’s direction after everything is getting out of control. Only thing I didn’t like the conclusions of characters’ stories. But this is still interesting, fast pacing and promising reading. I’m happy to start the year by finishing this reading. So yes it may be considered as a winner! blog instagram facebook twitter

While this is a simplistic story, it’s still a very accurate portrayal of performative activism and woke culture. I recognized so many of the central characters within people who exist in real life. I found myself nodding along to the book’s portrayals of liberal white allyship and the way people often believe their own self-serving narratives. I think because of the simplistic nature of the storyline though, the book was a little predictable and didn’t totally blow me away with new revelations, which is why I haven’t bumped it up to 5 stars. It’s still very relevant though, and I think people who have experienced these types of characters IRL will appreciate the way the author has tackled this story.

It turns out I don't know everything. For example: I would have thought I knew what I wanted from this book. Before I read it, I had an idea of it. While I was reading it, I thought I knew how it would go. And as I approached the ending, I thought I knew how I wanted things to finish. I was wrong about ALL OF IT. This was a million times cleverer and funnier and one-of-a-kind brilliant whatever than anything my dumb old brain could come up with. For once I am not in the right, and for even rarer I am okay with that. Bottom line: Listen to Kiley Reid, not me! -------------- pre-review literally, i'm sitting here silently typing this pre-review, but metaphorically and still in a very real way, i'm screaming forever because of this. review to come / 4.5 stars -------------- tbr review love to read the book everyone was reading ages after everyone's already read it

My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr... 4.5 Stars!!! An unforgettable story!! Twenty-five-year old, Emira Tucker is out with friends when her boss calls to ask if she would be able to babysit for a couple of hours. Emira regularly babysits for Mrs. Chamberlain (Alix) but it is already after ten on a Saturday night. However, there has been an incident at the Chamberlain home and Mrs. Chamberlain thinks it would be better if two-year-old, Briar is out of the house while they deal with everything. Emira explains that she isn’t exactly dressed for babysitting and that she’s had a couple of drinks. Mrs. Chamberlain says that's fine and offers to pay Emira double her regular rate. Emira needs the money so she agrees. Her friend Zara decides to go with her so the three of them head to Market Depot so Briar can look at the nuts and smell the tea (yes that’s right). They are all having a great time in the store. “Emira was being paid thirty-two dollars an hour to dance in a grocery store with her best friend and favorite little human.” Unfortunately, their good time comes to a screeching halt when Emira is approached by a security guard who asks if Briar is Emira’s child. Suffice to say the conversation doesn’t go well and the situation starts to escalate. “Mr. Chamberlain? Can you please come to Market Depot? Because they think I stole Briar” Another shopper manages to get the episode on video. Life changes after the night at Market Depot. Emira isn’t sure what to do or how to feel. Alix is also upset by what happened and wishes she could make things right. Emira and Alix have more in common than they realize and after a very memorable Thanksgiving dinner, things come to a head. Then a video of the incident at Market depot goes viral. This was an addictive and entertaining read! I listened to part of this book and read the other part. Both were great but I LOVED the narration of the audiobook. I enjoyed the relationships in this novel, especially the relationship between Emira and Briar. I also liked how Emira and Alix both had such a great group of friends. Briar really is the coolest kid ever. “Briar was constantly asking, singing, rambling, humming, explaining that she liked hot dogs, that she once saw a turtle, that she wanted a high five, that she was not tired at all.” I could hear that raspy chatty voice even when I wasn’t listening to the audiobook. Briar is a star but the other children in the book are also entertaining. “ Mommy, a penis is private. Mommy, you can’t play tag with a penis. Mommy, I have a penis and our dog has a penis and you lost yours so you need to be more careful.” Parts like that had me laughing out loud. I loved the flow of the story and really liked hearing from both main characters. I thought I had things all figured out, but as the story went on there were some shocking revelations. I think this would be a great choice for group reads. I’m pretty sure we’ll be seeing this on the big and/or small screen at some point. A terrific coming of age story that gives an unflinching look at race and privilege.

4 Stars It is with such a heavy heart that I write this review for “Such a Fun Age” a book I read a week and a half ago, when in the few short days since having read this, so much has transpired in our nation. This is a novel about class, privilege, society and racism from POV’s of two very different women: a successful, upper middle class caucasian woman and a young, struggling african american woman, who come from very different worlds. Alix is a wife, a mother, a blogger and an instagram influencer, living in Philadelphia with her family. She is in desperate need of a babysitter for her two children when she finds the perfect woman for the job. Enter Emira. A young african american woman who works part time as a transcriptionist and who needs another part-time job to pay the rent. Emira and Alix’s daughter Briar get along famously and all is well until one evening when Alix calls Emira in a panic asking for help. Knowing that she will get paid handsomely, Emira comes to Alix’s rescue taking Briar out of the house for a little while when an incident occurs. An incident wherein Emira is discriminated against because of her race. This my friends is only the beginning of the story. Someone witnesses this incident and later becomes integral to Emira’s life. In an unbelievable coincidence, this has a rippling effect on the entire story. Stunned by what she has discovered, Alix Chamberlin wants to do the best she can for Emira and yet she has to protect what is hers. Emira simply wants to be happy, to believe in those around her and to better herself. If only it was that easy. “Such a Fun Age” is character driven, literary fiction which I truly enjoyed reading, even though it deals with difficult topics. While I really liked the characters of Briar and Emira, the others left me wanting, just a tad. I didn’t feel enough emotion from them and that is the reason why this novel didn’t get a slightly higher rating from me. That aside, I am astounded that this is KIley Reid’s first novel and I can’t wait to see what she comes out with next. This novel deals with several very important issues, all of which are very prevalent right now. All I can say, is that we all impact each other (as was shown in this novel) and it is important that we take a look at ourselves, and listen to those whose backgrounds are different from our own and that we think before we act and before we speak. It is also important that we show compassion for each other and for ourselves. From my heart to yours, namaste my friends. Thank you to my local bookstore at which I purchased a signed copy of this novel. Published on Goodreads on 6.1.20.

My favorite part of the novel was Emira. Many found her to be unremarkable but I just loved that her character is a black woman who is simply content to exist. She doesn't want to save the world. She doesn't want to be the boss of a multimillion dollar company - she simply wants a stable job, a good place to live, and joy. I need more black characters who are content to just exist in the world like Emira. She was revolutionary for me and absolutely precious. The themes were my favorite part of this novel. How each of us has and displays implicit bias even though we may pretend we do not. How this bias gets passed on to our children and our children begin showing signs of racism as young as 2 years old. I feel many people missed the racism Briar clearly internalized and the implications for her future. I can't wait to see what else Reid writes.

It's taken a few days for me to figure out how I want to review this. This is one of those books where there is so much going on, but the author made it so digestible that it's easy to miss things. It was a very enjoyable read and a timely one. I admittedly probably read it too fast, but my only real disappointment (very small 'd' disappointment) came with part of the ending. Kiley Reid is definitely an author to watch. I have no doubt this will be a big book next year as well as a popular choice for book clubs. After "the incident" happens at the grocery store, the book takes off in a completely different direction than what I anticipated (in a good way), but it wasn't quite what I thought the book was going to be. Then it came back to the main point and was executed very well. The characters were extremely relatable and helped move the conversation forward. I think that's all you can ask for in a book like this. It asks us to look at the actions of the characters, examine aspects of our own lives and challenge us to be better in the future to ourselves and each other. Thank you to Edelweiss, G.P. Putnam's Sons and Kiley Reid for the opportunity to read and provide an honest review. Review Date: 12/17/19 Publication Date: 12/31/19

Such a Fun Age by Kiley Reid was deceptive — in a good way. The story certainly pulled me in, but at the beginning it felt kind of simple, almost gossipy. But by the end, it had a symmetry that was very clever and left me with a pleased smile on my face. The story is told from the alternating perspectives of Emira and Alix. Emira is a 25 year old African American struggling to make ends meet and to figure out what she wants to do with herself. For the time being, Emira works part time babysitting Alix’s 3 year old. Alix is a white upper class woman in her 30s, recently transplanted from Manhattan to Philadelphia. Both women are surrounded by a chorus of three best friends. The story starts with a late night incident in a high end supermarket involving Emira and Alix’s daughter — the security guard and a customer assume that Emira has no business being with a white toddler close to midnight in a fancy part of town. From there, Emira has to deal with Alix’s not so altruistic desire to befriend her... She also has to deal with the attraction of a bystander who caught the whole thing on video... I won’t say more to avoid spoilers other than to say that the novel works well because Reid doesn’t take the story in predictable directions. And, while she takes on some politically loaded themes, this is not a didactic story. Some may bristle at a big coincidence in the story, but it’s absolutely necessary to the plot. I certainly understand why this one is getting some buzz. Thanks to both Netgalley and Edelweiss for making advance copies available to me.

First off- I listened to this on Audible and I have to say the narrator hit it out of the park!! Nicole Lewis was fabulous! Her voice and expression definitely had me captivated (and laughing out loud) many times. This is a wonderful and thought provoking debut novel. If you like a lot of dialogue in your books than this is one for you. I thought the novel was going to focus on the event that occurred at the beginning of the story. It was so much more than that! A book certainly about race, social class and privilege but also about love and friendship. I thought this book was clever and funny but also serious with an important message. It was just subtly done. This is the story of Emira, a 25 year old African American woman who babysits for Alix Chamberlain, a white, rich, young mother of 2. Incredible storytelling by Kiley Reid!

This book started out as a real struggle for me. I honestly almost threw in the towel at the 40% mark- but I stuck with it and I’m honestly glad I did. 🧐 The character Alix is cringeworthy and her world isn’t even close to relatable. Anyway, the story all comes together in the end and is worth the effort in my opinion. 😉❤️📚

Can I just say this is the book that kicked me out of my pandemic reading slump. It was just the page-turning, thoughtful and funny read I needed, in part because of how warm the relationship between Emira and Briar was. Writing kids is not easy but Kiley Reid is clearly drawing on her six years of taking care of rich Manhattanite children. Briar is a wonky, thoughtful, panicked little 3 year old that loves to smell tea bags, and is Emira's favourite little human. So when she's called in the middle of the night to come and get Briar out of the house for an emergency - Emira is there to take her to an upscale grocery store. Emira is black and dressed for clubbing. Briar is a white 3 year old. So it's only a matter of time before someone goes full Karen and calls security over. Things escalate until Emira manages to get Briar's dad to come over and be reassuringly white for everyone. The whole incident is recorded by Kelley Copeland who is completely affronted for Emira's sake. He wants the recording sent to the news station, the security guard to get fired, free groceries for Emira. This is a travesty. You know he's ready to post a hot take on Twitter or upload it to Reddit as soon as possible but Emira insists he delete the file. So one hand you've got the "woke" white guy that exclusively dates black women and on the other, Briar's mom Alix. She's an upper middle class influencer whose schtick is handwritten notes on fancy paper asking for things, with the perfect little hastag #LetHerSpeak. After the market incident she's intent on connecting with Emira. She LOVES Toni Morrison, she has black best friends! And it's here that Kiley Reid just has so much fun. It's an examination of fetishization, micro-aggressions, virtue signaling, white-knighting along with the story of how one is supposed to adult in this world. This is meaty fodder for any book group without getting weighted down with it's own self-importance. Just a fun read that you can feel a tiny bit smug about being in on the joke and on the right side of cringe. I mean how do you pronounce SZA?

Thank you to the publisher and Libro.fm for the gifted copy. I listened to the audio of Such a Fun Age and found this to be a fresh story centered around race and privilege. I love that this book is garnering attention, and I’m hoping it’ll keep the discussion going on the important issues addressed here. I was rather surprised by this book, and how it accomplishes what it does, so I don’t want to spoil any of its goodness. More thoughts to come soon. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

Thought-provoking, powerful, and absorbing! SUCH A FUN AGE by KILEY REID was a book that I was extremely excited to receive and I am happy to say that I was just as excited about it after finishing the book. This was such a surprisingly great debut that starts off with quite the opening scene and then mellows out a little bit where the mood switches to being a light, easy-breezy story but to be totally honest it was nothing but. It was such a complex and layered story that was packed full of heart. KILEY REID delivers a clever, captivating, and intriguing story here that is told in an empathetic and sincere voice that really makes the reader think. The narrative was fun and satirical and never once did I feel like it was intended to be any other way. I didn’t feel that the author was making us feel a certain way she was allowing us to feel it all on our own and come to our own interpretations of how we would react if we were put in the same scenarios as they were. I was definitely putting myself in these characters shoes and examining my own feelings. This book definitely made me think! I wouldn’t necessarily say that I really connected or liked any of these characters, except for maybe little Briar. She definitely stole the show. It was the story in a whole that definitely made this such a great read for me! This was such an entertaining and enjoyable read that I had the pleasure of buddy reading with a group of lovely women on Instagram. Thank you so much for the fun and exhilarating reading experience ladies! I highly recommend it!

I felt like this was a really good fast-paced story, about several different relevant topics. This book covers everyone one would encounter growing up, trying to figure out who one is and what they want out of life. It also covers many of the racial issues in our news today. Overall I would say this is a drama, and exactly nothing what I thought it would be like. My biggest problem with this was how our protagonist, Emira, came across; very lost, unmotivated, and a little less than smart, for the most part. Mostly she was very unsure of herself. Pretty much every time she was addressed and asked a question she responded with 'Umm...' and then ended the response with a question mark, it annoyed the crap out of me!! I liked the ending, but felt a little bit like maybe something more should have happened?! this is definitely 3.5 star territory but I will round it up for the fact that it is a debut novel.

4★ “But then, seemingly all at once, Briar started talking. Funneled by two massive front teeth, Briar’s voice consumed everything in its path. It was loud and hoarse and never stopped. When Briar slept, it was as if a fire alarm had finally been turned off, and Alix’s head throbbed with what she remembered was peace and quiet.” Briar is the quirky two-year-old daughter of well-to-do parents Peter and Alix Chamberlain. Alix used to be Alex Murphy (not born so well-to-do) but became Alix (ah-LEEKS’) Chamberlain and has been climbing the influencer ladder, writing glowing letters on fancy stationery asking for and receiving all kinds of free goods to promote to her followers. “What Alix immediately liked best about Peter was that he treated her side project like an actual job. “ Peter is a TV presenter, a nice, good-looking guy, a few years her senior, but who’s counting? He is a relatively big deal on Philadelphia TV, so they’d moved – she can do her online work and write letters from anywhere. But she is badly missing NYC, where she was getting a foothold. She has a new baby who looks just like her and is a placid bub, so easy compared to Briar, who talks about unusual things and asks unexpected questions, and likes to smell nuts in the shop. She can’t be palmed off with a cartoon, like a lot of kids. So Alix determines to find a babysitter. That’s Emira Tucker, who answers the ad because she’s broke and not earning enough as a typist. Luckily, she becomes genuinely fond of Briar, and when Mr and Mrs Chamberlain (as she thinks of them) have an emergency at about 11pm that will involve the police, Alix rings Emira in a panic, asking her to take Briar to the grocery store and keep her occupied so she isn’t frightened by seeing flashing lights and uniforms at their house. 11pm? “Mrs. Chamberlain’s voice was calm and strangely articulate, as if she were delivering a baby and saying, ‘Okay, mom, it’s time to push.’ ‘I’m so sorry to call you this late,’ she said. ‘I just don’t want her to see the police.’ ‘Oh wow. Okay, but, Mrs. Chamberlain?’ Emira sat down at the edge of a couch. Two girls started dancing on the other side of the armrest…” She explains she’s out dancing and not dressed for work. I mean really not dressed for work She shouldn’t have to explain that she’s black, has been partying (friend’s birthday), and will be escorting a little white girl in a high-priced, late night market in a ritzy neighbourhood. The accusation that she might be a kidnapper does, in fact, cause a big enought incident that it makes the news. It could even jeopardise Peter’s career. How to apologise? Alix’s friends include a best friend who’s black, and she’s desperate to make sure she’s friends with Emira, who simply loves Briar and needs the money. She doesn’t need another friend. Awkwardness ensues, but it’s not a simple cut-and-dried question of who’s trying too hard or what the dynamics should be. There’s an ex-boyfriend in Alix’s life who broke her heart, and Emira has a new white beau who seems to get attached to black friends and girls in preference to white ones. Nothing is simple. The various situations are all food for thought and great topics for conversation. The relationships are not as stereotyped as they appear at first. It’s easy to see each ‘side’ in the race question pick apart things others have said or done, but everyone has a point. The big one is that Emira is extremely fond of Briar and values her position looking after her. She just wishes it were worth more money and that her relationship with Alix hadn’t become so difficult. Alix really isn’t just a smarty-pants, privileged elite white, although she tried to ‘earn’ that image and then tried to prove herself as something more. Class and race are tricky subjects, which I think Reid has handled pretty well. Briar, as a clever toddler could be considered a fun age, but so could Emira, partying in her early 20s. I bet a lot of readers would rather not relive their fun ages. The back and forth between everyone’s past and today worked fine for me, and gave a little more insight into how they’d become the people they are now. The awkwardness at Thanksgiving was a seriously cringeworthy affair! I’ll just say that satire is really hard to pull off if everyone isn’t in on the joke. I enjoyed the read and can see why it’s so popular.

I wasn't prepared for how WILD this book was Watch my full review: https://youtu.be/cxpWb-WZtiQ

There are mixed reviews for this Reese Witherspoon pick, but, I have to admit, it got me thinking. Let me explain. There are books I read for the pure pleasure of the storytelling and there are books I read to make me think. Occasionally a book comes along that does both, without it being an “issue book.” This is one of those books. One of the best ways to make a point is through witty satire, through stereotypical characters who are ridiculous, yet compulsively readable. Taking the biggest hit in this book are the individuals who are so fearful of appearing racist, so convinced that they aren’t racist, that they lack self-awareness. This plays out quite nicely with the characters in this story. The other thing I noticed is that the author avoids the easy solutions and doesn’t tell us what to think. Instead she makes the reader think and examine their own feelings, opinions and actions, which can put us in an uncomfortable place at times. The last line in the book packs quite a punch. Take yourself there, and tell me what you think.

Emira and Kelley get freaky on page 69. Coincidence? I think not.

This book is pretty short (300 pages) and I flew through this story. While it was a quick read, there was so much depth and commentary on society that it really left me frustrated and thinking about the world we live in. Emira babysits for a wealthy white family. One day, she is called in at night to take one of the daughters to the grocery story while the family deals with an emergency. Long story short, the security guard at the store accuses Emira of kidnapping. While this is the premise I know, this entire synopsis occurs in the first 20 pages of the book. The rest of the book deals with Alix's guilt over what happened, her overcompensation towards Emira, and Emira having to put up with Alix's overbearing nature. And boy is Alix overbearing. She is definitely an unlikable character and what made her so unlikable to me was that she honestly saw no fault in her thinking or her actions. She constantly has to convince herself that what she is doing is right and she takes on this sort of savior complex when it comes to Emira. She inserted herself into Emira's life and manipulated things because she thought she knew what was best for Emira, who was a grown adult who could make her own decisions. The ideas of race and class are brought up and how they affect relationships and how people view others. The characters in here are all complex and I appreciated how no one was really in the right in this book. Everyone had their flaws and everyone made mistakes. This book didn't get a full five stars from me because I did think the ending wrapped up a bit too quickly and I would have liked more fleshed out after what had happened. But overall I definitely recommend picking this book up.

if you like no plot, character-focused anecdotal books, this is the one for you. translated from italian, lost on me is a bildungsroman following vero, who comes of age during 1980s/90s rome in a neurotic family. the novel is fast-paced and witty, made up of vignettes of vero’s childhood schemes to her current day life as a writer. it feels very memoir-esque / auto-fictional, so it’s perfect if you enjoy funny, stream of consciousness books with a chaotic family focus. 3.75

This was an interesting book. The translation was done well and this was a book I read very quickly. It’s described as a mystery and while there was a mystery it was much more a historical fiction descriptive of the times. The mystery was a little convoluted but was wrapped up well in the end. I liked the character of Samson and I would enjoy reading more of him. It’s 1919 in Kyiv and Samson is a young adult who has just been orphaned. Knowing he needs to find a job he stumbles upon a job in working for the police. His first case involves two murders and left behind at the site is a bone of pure silver, a mystery in itself. This book had a little of everything including hints of romance. This is my first book by Andrew Kurkov but I am very certain it won’t be my last.

As it stands, an Andrey Kurkov novel is the equivalent of comfort food: you know you’re going to meet likeable characters, that there will be a balance of funny bits and tragic ones and general feel good vibe. Yet, the three Kurkov novels I’ve read a different in their own way bar the setting. The Silver Bone is the first part of a planned trilogy of police procedural mysteries set during the 1919 Soviet occupation of UK. As of typing, the second volume is already out in Ukrainian and Kurkov is working on the third. A little bit of a tangent but I felt that info was needed as I do like that fact that Kurkov is taking genre fiction and giving it a new dressing. The main protagonist is Samson Kolechko, an engineer by profession. After seeing his father being killed by soldiers and then having his ear sliced off, he feels that his career has gone to a standstill. Things get worse when two soldiers decide to live with him and he discovers sacks of stolen goods. Once he goes to the police to report, he is offered a job and he sets off investigating a series of murders which connects the soldiers, a tailor and a large bone covered in silver. The crime is secondary as the importance is on Ukraine under Soviet rule; houses were repossessed, soldier lived with people, theft was rife, businesses went down, people could not hold a profession. Yet despite the bleak landscape Kurkov still manages to inject his trademark humor. tragically when Boris Dralyuk finished translating The Silver Bone, Putin invaded the Ukraine, thus making the book oddly prescient. One cannot help liking the characters in the novel. There were many times I smiled, humor is one of the better ways to get a message across and it works here. Probably what makes me enjoy Kurkov’s writing is that he always sees a glimmer of light in everything, no matter how tragic and in these times, it does help.

I discovered Kurkov with "Grey Bees", which I loved. This one is the first in a mystery series,and his usual wit, insight and keen eye for character are evident. It´s not much of a mystery, but as an atmospheric,acute observation of the times,with a very unique interesting detective, it´s a very promising start.

1/13 International Booker Prize Longlist. Excellent book overall. I was enraptured from the first page, it's the first book in a long time that I've wanted to read compulsively and that I just couldn't put down. The book is very compelling and I felt very intimately a part of Samson's world. He is thoughtful, kind, and full of human error; I questioned Samson at multiple points, but that just made me want to understand him more. He felt like a fully developed character--Kurkov knew exactly who he was writing. Furthermore, the ending is a fantastic hook. 10 pages from the end and I wasn't exactly sure how Kurkov could end the book and set up the next, but he more than delivered. The historical detail in the novel is great-- I know next to nothing about Kyiv's geography, but I created a very vivid mental image and map in reading about Samson's daily life. I loved reading the translators note at the end about how they'd chosed transliterations for location names, as I had been wondering while reading if the map descriptions in the book would be functional according to a Kyvian. The book's summary on the inner flap was a bit misleading in my opinion; it implied more action or like excitement in Samson's daily goings-ons, but I wasn't sure WHEN each event was happening. Like what is this about him overhearing the soldiers' plans? I read through like three separate scenes until I was like okay YES this is the part where he overhears. Also, the silver bone doesn't show up until like 200 pages in, which frustrated me. The build up of suspense/the bone as a confusing aspect is great, but it didn't feel so central to the plot so as to be the title. I felt some aspects of the story were halfbaked--particularly the nature metaphors. Kyiv becomes a character in and of itself, but a few chapters ending with crow sightings or some other nature interaction. I was like is this supposed to be a main motif or not? Translation wise, Dralyuk did an incredible job. Many lines of the English read very poetically and profoundly, and I have such admiration for Dralyuk. The book has characters speaking German, Flemish (?), and different socio-economic varieties of Russian/ Ukranian, and Dalyuk did an amazing job in translating those translingual moments. If this was a book I read on its own randomly, I would have given it a five. But as it's part of the Booker Prize, I'm reserving 5s for the most absolutely amazing thing I've ever read. This is the first one I've read out of the 2024 longlist, so a four star rating felt more tempered than a 5. Looking forward to the rest of the series and meeting Samson again!

Great book set in 1919 Ukraine. The plot keeps you interested until an unexpected end. Samson is a great character.

This book taught me the very useful fact that you can leave your severed ear anywhere and it’ll hear what’s going on there.

No one writes terrifying, claustrophobic despair like Kurkov. Yumma!

** spoiler alert ** Andrey Kurkov's The Silver Bone is a Ukranian magical-realist historical detective novel -- the first of its genre I've ever read, it might surprise you. It's set in 1919 Kyiv, in the midst of the Russian Civil War. A year after Ukranian independence has been declared, Trotsky's Red Army takes over the city and is reinstalling Soviet rule. The populace is scared and poor, learning to evade illogical confescations by several government forcesan hustling with various kinds of currency, while still looking for ways to make life simply go on. Communism takes a strange, baby form. Not even rainy-looking clouds can keep their promise in this unanchored society. Trust is a useless word. Order is absent in this dank circus of a town. Samson Kolechko, not able to find work as a scientist, joins the Red Police Force. The police follows Kremlin orders by trying to catch thieves and punish deserters. Here, Samson stumbles upon a double murder that will take him all around a hinky Kyiv. Here we experience our protagonist's lovable action. The bureau is still finding its footing, although the chain of command has hopes to appear strict. Samson, who can stand a verbal beating by his bosses, finds ways to investigate essentially anyway he likes. He writes well, clear. He's an uncertain, but ultimately resourceful detective, with a laconic attitude towards the crime and a straight, logical, inquisitive mind. He makes for a good "nose". His superpower is not olfactory, however, but a lost ear. Sabered off by a cantankerous Cossack, who went for his head, but Samson's father intervened and took the fatal slashing. The orphaned ear still works. It occupies an aluminum box in father's old desk and serves to eavesdrop on criminals first and then, after the desk is confescated, to overhear the muffled political meanderings at the bureau. The tragically gashed, magically functional ear gives Samson a necessary edge. The murder he tries to solve, ultimately, revolves around an opposite: a body part that's still attached but tragically made dysfunctional by tbc. The police work unveils a sickness oppressing post-WWI Ukraine: misguided hope. Importantly, the novel isn't asthmatic or desperate. Instead, it's humorous, with touches of sad magic. Kurkov is most interested in the Kyiv of its day and in how the characters fare by the lightning changes happening in their world. As such, it's a sociological novel that can indeed be read too attain indirect insights into today's wartorn Ukraine. Putin's invasion into the Ukraine hadn't begun when K wrote this novel in its original language, he had even already penned the second installment and was structuring number three on that fateful day. However, Crimea was already annexed years prior and I can't help but wonder if the decapitated ear that's still listening, or the tbc-affected body part that the owner wishes to replace with an unbreakable, silver version no matter the risky debts he takes on to achieve it and no matter how fantastical the endeavour, are both symbols for the loss of a limb that the 2014 annexation may have been for the Ukranians. Do you see how it might be symbolic? Due perhaps to his more high-brow preoccupations, Kurkov never really falls in love with the detective elements: the criminals, the procedure, the mystery. Don't expect an immediate crime plot to unfold on the first onebhundred pages. Although, when the investigation takes center stage near the end of the novel, it is all very enjoyable. It's an impressive balance. Meanwhile, the city's inhabitants, the details of their little lives, the occupied streets of Kyiv, the oppressed information networks, the sensations belonging to times of violent change, all make me keen for the next part in this Ukranian magical-realist historical, sociological, detective novel Trilogy.

https://www.instagram.com/p/C4VoPwOL8... A devastating exploration of illness and the meaning of life. Told from the perspective of both a terminal illness and the woman it overtakes, Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is a supremely unique and hard hitting journey through years of love, loss, and reconciling with one’s own mortality. Stylistically diverse and packed with both sorrow and joy, this novel is an essential read for anyone who has been touched by the effects of terminal and chronic illness, those who have watched loved ones fight indescribable battles, and those who themselves must navigate an identity that is not defined by illness, but is influenced by it. Honest, lyrical, and with the gentle knowing that pierces the heart, this is an unforgettable read of honoring creative legacies cut short, but never defeated.

Parts of this book were inescapably gorgeous, heartbreaking, incisive, engrossing and thought provoking. There were times that I was laughing and crying and overwhelmingly convinced that I was in the presence of genius. I loved Lia’s family story, her youth, the nuanced characters of her mother, daughter and husband. I didn’t think I wanted to read a book about dying, but this book convinced me that I did, painful as it often was. And then there were the other parts - where the curlicues and metaphor and allegory just get heaped on so high and so thick that what was achingly beautiful becomes annoyingly confusing and eventually dull. It’s a bold move to give cancer a voice but one whose execution did not match its conception. And the ending lost the sureness of timing that had guided the rest of the book, and dragged on from seeming emotional climax to climax until my tears just couldn’t be jerked any more and I just wanted to be done. I learned after finishing that this is a debut and the author is only 26 (positively ancient compared to Leila Mottley, who I read the other day, but still quite young). There are seeds of greatness here and maybe next time around she’ll have the wisdom to leave some of the embellishments on the cutting room floor.

Always loved an unreliable narrator. However, this one, the cancer itself is so... evil, bitchy, cruel in his speech. Ohn wait! But this is the speech of evil, I don't know why I expected it otherwise. I must have been mesmerised by Death in The Book Thief... Anyway, this book is not easy to carry, this one is full of dramas, such an exact depiction of how life really is sometimes, no sugar added, not even there when the reader begs for a little bit. The experimental graphics which Mortimer adopted have a nice effect, however, for me they were disruptive, taking me out of the story. Though I enjoyed the back and forth of the narrative and cancer's insertions. It got to me several times, when my eyes watered. I am very very sensitive at stories with mothers and daughters. And there are plenty here. I will read more from Mortimer.

4.5 To be frank, I was ready to abandon this book in the first 50-80 pages - a very rare occurrence for me. Without a doubt, my number one pet peeve related to literary fiction is when an author orients words differently on a page (i.e. line breaks, making shapes out of words, text fading/changing in colour) and it's lauded as "challenging the form of the novel." No descriptor could be further from the truth, imo - you've quite literally just played around with text boxes in MSWord, and the only thing that's challenged is my ability to read the book sensibly. And that's what happens in the first part of this book - the voice of cancer, which has returned with a vengeance to wreak havoc on Lia's life and the lives of the people she loves, swirls and whirls around the page in bold font, skipping lines and talking like a bad beat poet and making no fking sense. HOWEVER. Something really incredible happens further in the book when both Lia's body and mind change their relationship with the cancer. I ended up finding those stretches of text to be very beautiful and deeply moving. I was also deeply invested in the stories of Lia's past and Iris's present. From the beginning I wanted to know more about Lia's life as the child of a vicar, and especially how that shapes her relationship with Iris. I loved this book. The writing was gorgeous and striking, and I found myself in tears towards the end: a sure sign of a successful read.

This is a fabulous debut novel from Nathan Harris. With sparkling prose, Harris tells a compelling story set in the early days of Reconstruction in Georgia. The Walker family is front and center - a white family, descended from northerners, who are sympathetic to the newly freed slaves. Prentiss and Landry, brothers and freedmen, work with the Walkers after Emancipation. This is a story about good people doing their best in the face of a systemically racist and corrupt society - undoubtedly on point and relevant today.

This is a slow burn of a story. It’s the end of the civil war and the slaves have been freed. Two of them, Prentiss and Landry, make their way to a farm where they are hired by a white man, George Walker, to help him till his land. But, he is judged harshly by the town for hiring these men. Then a murder happens and the family unravels. This is a story of humanity, humility and the harsh reality during these times. So many themes packed into this, one can see how it has quickly become a favourite. Themes of homosexuality, discrimination, distance in a marriage, friendship, grief and family. What an awesome debut! 4.5⭐️

Given her track record, I was a little hesitant in reading this upon hearing that it was chosen for Oprah's Book Club. Shortly after that, however, it was selected by Obama as one of his must-reads for Summer 2021, and then not too long afterward, it was longlisted for the Booker prize. So I caved in and bought it; it's very rare that a debut from a Black author gets this kind of attention, and I needed to know why. Simply put, the hype is justified- the writing is really, really good while the story is engaging from the first page. And what a story it is. Taking his cues from Gone With the Wind and Cold Mountain, Harris writes about a familiar period in American history- freed by the Emancipation Declaration, Prentiss and Landry form an unlikely bond with George Walker and his wife Isabelle. The two former slaves come to work for George as freed men, but this doesn't sit right with the other white people who live in the town of Old Ox, especially considering that these men used to be slaves of George's rival, Mr. Morton. George's son Caleb is a Confederate soldier fighting in the Civil War with his childhood friend and secret lover, August. When August comes back to tell George that Caleb has died, everything changes. What's remarkable about this novel is, given the synopsis above, I really thought that was all it had to offer in terms of plot. Boy, was I wrong... The characters are indelible and feel like real people. Most of the white characters are terrible people who do and say terrible things. Given the time period, the law justified pretty much everything they did. I was pissed off by a lot of what happens, but one gets the sense that this isn't the reason why Harris wanted to write a story like this. Sure, slavery and racism went hand-in-hand during the Antebellum South, but if Harris had just relied on the cruelties of slavery to drive the plot, we probably would have had a different book. What we do have is a book about Black fraternity, a book about family and what it means to belong to one, and yes- a book about Black/white relations after the Civil War and how fucking terrible that whole time period was. The narrative could have easily gone off into White Saviour-ism, but kudos to Harris for giving us unsentimental and nuanced storytelling instead. I can't wait to see where he goes from here. My rating is between a 4 and a 4.5- I'd highly recommend it.

The Sweetness of Water by Nathan Harris was a powerful and impressive debut novel. I listened to the audio CD that was read by William DeMeritt. I enjoyed his performance very much. Harris masterfully wrote about the days that immediately followed the surrender of Lee and the passage of The Emancipation Proclamation that came with the end of the Civil War and the freeing of the slaves. This gripping story took place in the small town of Old Ox, Georgia. The characters were multi-layered and well developed with uniquely distinguished characteristics. I found myself thinking about the characters long after I finished reading this book. Nathan Harris’s writing was both strong and beautiful. His way with words was quite impressive for a debut novel. The Sweetness of Water was historically accurate and very well researched. It was a little slow in the beginning but gained momentum and had my complete interest and attention as the story progressed. Brothers Prentiss and Landry were experiencing their first taste of freedom when they came across George Walker in the forest of Old Ox. George had just received the devastating news that his only son, Caleb, had died fighting as a soldier in the Civil War. His grief was immense and he was avoiding the inevitable task of having to convey this sad news to his wife, Isabelle. George Walker and his wife Isabelle owned a farm nearby and after some thought, George offered Prentiss and Landry paid employment on his farm. It was a good arrangement for all. George hoped that the hard work he and his two new workers would perform would mask his loss and sadness and the brothers aspired to save enough money to travel north and hopefully find their mother who had previously been sold to another master. George’s attitude and treatment towards Prentiss and Landry was challenged by the townspeople of Old Ox who could not let go of their hatred and racism toward freed slaves. To George and Isabelle’s relief, Caleb had been taken as a prisoner of war and soon returned home. Caleb reluctantly worked side by side with his father, Prentiss and Landry on converting their farm to a peanut farm. Caleb hated farming though. This was not the life he envisioned for himself. Caleb carried a deep secret within himself. When his secret was accidentally discovered, it culminated in a tragic and senseless murder that changed the lives of so many. The Sweetness of Water by Natan Harris was about family, relationships, hatred, racism, entitlement, love in many forms, weakness, strength and above all hope. The social issues presented in The Sweetness of Water were reminiscent of issues we are still addressing currently. Time has not improved the attitudes towards these social issues. White Supremacy, bigotry and racism still exist. Our criminal justice system remains flawed. As George Walker’s character in The Sweetness of Water challenged the hatred, bigotry and racism of the people of Old Ox, he was met with opposition and violence. George Walker’s humane ways toward freed slaves, Prentiss and Landry, were were not embraced by most of his friends and acquaintances. His actions were definitely in the minority and he was scrutinized and ostracized for these acts. The Sweetness of Water was quite thought provoking and emotional. I look forward to reading more books by Nathan Harris. He is an author to watch and anticipate. Thank you to Blackstone Publishing/Little Brown Publishing for allowing me to read this debut historical fiction advanced reader’s copy of The Sweetness of Water through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. All opinions expressed in this review are completely my own. This book was recently published on June 15, 2021.

A well-written debut about the Reconstruction period immediately following the American Civil War, this book does a good job in character creation and atmospheric setting. I felt that the story itself had some hiccups along the road, but that I still enjoyed it and found the ending particularly well-articulated. My list of Pulitzer hopefuls for 2022 - stop by and vote today!

My second from the 2021 Booker longlist. This is a novel on the immediate aftermath of Civil War, beginning days after surrender. It takes looks at a small town in rural Georgia adjusting to defeat and the presence of controlling union soldiers, and full of recently freed slaves and recently returned soldiers. Strange is the wrong word, but I thought this book had some oddities. The extensive dialogue is colorful and quietly dynamic, except when it's not. The prose in contrast is straight-forward and plain and clean. The contrast, exaggerated on audio, is endearing, and it seemed to me to become a distinct thing, unique, the likable aspects inseparable from its flaws. Anyway, I enjoyed this. ----------------------------------------------- 45. The Sweetness of Water by Nathan Harris reader: William DeMeritt published: 2021 format: 12:08 audible audiobook (368 pages in hardcover) acquired: September 10 listened: Sep 10-24 rating: 4 locations: late Civil-War Georgia (the US state, this time) about the author: born 1992, raised in Oregon, lives in Austin, TX

This was well written. I really liked it. A reminder of the prevalence of such hatred can be hard to read sometimes, and this did a great job.

Set in Georgia during the time of the Reconstruction, this debut novel, The Sweetness of Water, uses a realistic approach rather than that of a metaphor or fantasy as have many others tackling the same subject. No surprise that it has garnered so many prizes even being tapped by Barack Obama and Oprah as one of their favorites. If I had a quibble, it would be that there was little gray in the characterizations -- those who were good were very very good and those that were bad were horrid, almost cartoonish in their evil.

Such beautiful, beautiful words.♡

The Brits got their hands on Ben Markovits’s new novel, “The Rest of Our Lives,” back in March. They raved. We eavesdropped. They shortlisted it for the Booker Prize. We checked international postage rates. Given that Markovits was born in the United States and that “The Rest of Our Lives” describes an American road trip, it hardly seems fair that just because he has lived in England for decades we had to wait nine extra months to read it. But sink into this wry, poignant story and all is forgiven. The narrator, 55-year-old Tom Layward, identifies as “a slightly sadder older guy.” He doesn’t waste any time clearing his throat. The opening sentence pokes at the rotting cavity at the center of his marriage: “When our son was twelve years old, my wife had an affair.” That brief tryst was over before his wife, Amy, confessed. She didn’t want a divorce. “She just wanted some kind of reaction,” Tom says, “... but that’s not really my style.” Instead, they both fell into a long period of brooding, of mourning — enduring what he calls their “C-minus marriage.” As a wedding shower gift, this novel shouldn’t be your first choice. “If you continue to have illusions, that’s your fault,” Tom says — not to his wife but to us, which is part of the problem. “So if you stay married it’s because you’ve accepted that this is what they’re like, and what your life with them is like, and you stop expecting them to do or give you things you know perfectly well they’re unlikely to do or give you. It’s like being a Knicks fan.” For middle-aged, passive-aggressive men playing out the clock in dismal marriages, reading “The Rest of Our Lives” may feel like performing open-heart surgery on themselves. But anyone willing to.... To read the rest of this review go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

I think it is a (underappreciated and misunderstood) sensitive, deep look into the human soul, with empathy and compassion for our flawed and changing nature. I can't believe people complain about "all the basketball references" (really, like 4 or 5 paragraphs 🙄) and miss all the clarity with which he depicts complicated feelings. I loved it and I think he fully deserves to be on The Booker short list and I do intend to read more of his work.

I'm definitely showing my age when I say that I'm really enjoying midlife slice of life novels at the moment. This new novel from British-American writer Benjamin Markovits explores empty nest syndrome and a midlife road trip and asks the question - what is left when your kids leave home for college? Tom is a law professor and father of two, married to Amy. Amy had an affair a decade ago and Tom promised himself that once their youngest child Miriam left for college, he'd leave his wife. That time has arrived and as Tom sets off to settle Miriam into college, he embarks on a road trip, not fully knowing where it is going to take him. This is one of those books where the characters are sharply drawn and where, though not a huge amount happens, it gets under your skin. Tom isn't always a particularly nice person, nor is his brittle wife, but their redeeming characteristics bubble beneath the surface and we slowly find out what has brought them to this point and where they go from here. Examining midlife, mortality and marriage, The Rest of Our Lives asks the hard questions, to which there are no easy answers. There's a fair bit of basketball chat in here in case that is off-putting to anyone, don't say you weren't warned! If you enjoy this, I think you'll also enjoy This Is Who We Are Now by James Bailey and Coming Home by Tom Lamont, both of which are refreshing reads that portray masculinity with nuance and empathy. 4/5 stars Many thanks to Faber Books for the advance copy via @netgalley in exchange for an honest review.

Heralded as the male "On All Fours" and teased as relying heavily on pick-up basketball for its storytelling, The Rest of Our Lives sank right to the bottom of my Booker Prize reading list: Neither of these things appeals to me. Luckily, however, these things also do not relate to the novel I just read. Yes, there is a midlife crisis and a road trip, and yes, sometimes we spent roughly six lines on him playing basketball, but the weight of the narrative lies elsewhere. The man (Tom) whom we follow on his road trip (and midlife crisis) begins by taking his daughter to college. He is a little old-fashioned, both in the seminars he teaches on hate crimes and in his judgement of sexual misconduct in the NBA. His children tell him he is on the wrong side of history, but his behaviour is far from egregious. However, he has a decision to make: Years ago, his wife had an affair, and now that his last child is leaving home, he must decide whether the marriage is over. Rather than returning home after dropping his daughter off at college, he moves on, visiting people from his past and perhaps working on a book about pick-up basketball encounters. His body is not quite cooperating — he suspects he has long Covid — but he travells from place to place and reflects on his relationship, his family and his friends. The selling point of this novel is its narrative tone, a disarming first-person narrative. We are inside the mind of a middle-aged man who encounters a world that is no longer always made for him and a reality that he does not always want to accept. Yet while he is far from perfect and is often stuck in his prejudices, he is not a villainous old white man. Instead, we gain insight into male friendships and the dynamics of masculinity. We explore male-dominated spaces as we get to know this character, learning about his past and present, and the possibilities of his future. There is a lot of literary real estate when it comes to the relationship dynamics of middle-aged couples, but Markovits excels in staying with his protagonist and letting us see for ourselves. Nothing is easy, black-and-white or one-sided. Making us understand the intricacies of the presented relationships and understanding the validity of different perspectives while keeping us glued to Tom is an impressive feat. A recurring theme in this is social roles, performance and expectation. Tom himself reflects on his desire to talk to his wife:"If you call Amy now the person you talk to will not be the person in your head, for whom you have these warm and simple feelings. It will be another person, who doesn’t like you much these days, with whom you get into stupid arguments.” And yet, there is no question that there is a great deal of love and understanding present. We get to know Tom and, perhaps against our will, begin to see — and perhaps even like — him for who he is. I thought this was an unassuming but successful contender for the Booker Prize, and I would not be unhappy to see it on the shortlist. It is easy to read, very entertaining and manages to show the ridiculousness of Toms behaviour without making him the but of the joke - and it manages to explore its themes without becoming high brow or overly conceptual.

Well, this didn’t feel very Booker-ish (despite being long listed), but I liked this very realistic story of a marriage on the rocks. It’s very very “of the moment” in the sense that many of the telling details grounds the story firmly 2020’s. Something about the interactions and reactions between the four family members, Tom, Amy and their two children, seemed so believable to me. My one quibble is there’s a number of ancillary characters whose purpose seems only to reflect the protagonist in a mirror for the readers to see. This is the story of one man. A deep character dive. I can see why for some readers that might not be enough to be a prize winner. Reminded me a lot of Tom Wolfe's work.

A fascinating commentary on the pipeline of lonely middle-aged white man to normalised racism/sexism/homophobia/transphobia. The sense of pitiful resignation that leads someone to being so benign in their own life.

The booker prize 2025 shortlist tricked me into reading a DAD BOOK & I liked it

2nd Booker book of 2025 I found this book really engaging actually, even though I wasn’t sure I’d necessarily feel very connected to the story. Touches on some very real human emotions and the characters feel very real. An easy and short read. It is a quiet novel and very reflective. You won’t finish reading this and think ‘wow!’, but it might make you think about your life, where it is going and the people in it.

Despite not liking this family very much, I found this an interesting read. After dropping his daughter off for her first semester at Carnegie Mellon, a man keeps driving west making stops along the way to see his brother, a few friends from his basketball days, and his son. As he drives, he ruminates about his marriage, his father, his college and grad school years, and his wife’s brief affair 12 years prior.

I hadn’t heard of Benjamin Markovits before but I was intrigued by the blurb, so I applied to read it. This book won’t turn your world upside down but it is a lovely story, with very believable characters, and plausible situations – although if someone had Tom, our narrator’s symptoms, one would hope they would go to a hospital sooner. Tom is married to Amy. They have 2 beautiful children – first Michael, then Miriam (Miri). When Michael is young and Miri is tiny, Amy has an affair. They carry on, so as to keep the home together for the children, but Tom decides that when Miri leaves home, he will leave. Amy suspects and is just waiting for something to happen, so the marriage is not a comfortable one. However, they muddle along. When Miri goes to University Tom drives her. When he drops her off, he just decides to carry on driving – to see various old friends, and ultimately to stay with their son Michael. Unfortunately, the trip doesn’t quite go as planned, and Tom and Amy are forced to evaluate what is really important. I really enjoyed the book, but I felt the ending was a bit rushed and not very satisfying. Otherwise I would have given it 5 stars.

tl;dr an impending empty nest sparks this slyly funny, quietly sad, and surprisingly tender portrait of a man faced with an uncertain future The kids need you and then they withdraw their need, and you have to put up with it. So you become someone who is … unlike yourself, but how do you say this to a person you love. At three in the morning in a hotel bed. (p. 122) Tom: a law school teacher about to go on leave, father of two children, one about to go to college, the other in grad school, married to Amy. There’s quite a bit to know about Tom Layward, our narrator, but the first thing that he mentions about himself is that his wife had an affair when their kids were much younger. He’s clearly got some shit to work through, and being that this novel is marketed heavily via its road trip premise, what better way to go on the journey of self-discovery than on the road? But throughout Benjamin Markovits’ The Rest of Our Lives, I never got a sense that Tom was discovering himself. There was, in fact, a distinct feeling of running away, of flight. Tom’s narration is clipped and plain, dressed with quips of someone who feels like they aren’t being heard or understood (“anyway…”, “no one cared…”). It has the feeling of someone who’s flown under-the-radar for most of their life, and perhaps not by choice. It’s saltine-dry, the feeling of unfulfillment. One of the first things I saw of this book was that it was like “the male version of All Fours”, which is a comparison so preposterously inaccurate save for the fact that it involves A White Person that Drives a Car. Tom feels, to me, like a cross between Arthur Less and Lucy Barton: reflectively pondering, but in a – and I can’t believe I am saying this – strikingly modernly heterosexual male way. Amy has done Tom wrong, and I think that’s made abundantly clear. But his attitude towards her character flaws is cold and dismissive; Amy’s self-harm, mentioned early on, is relegated to a single parenthetical expression, with a distinctly pointed tone. Their marriage is beyond the rocks, and this relationship feels unsalvageable from the get go. How else would a marriage turn out if one party fantasized about leaving for 12 years? Within their marriage, and extending to their kids, there’s this idea of loyalty/allegiance being explored. Who is closer to which kid, and why? Who is dispensing information to whom? Tom concludes at one point: At some level everything you feel or think is a kind of taking sides. (p. 88) Unlike other road trip novels, Tom’s “journey” does not beget a sense of personal, giddy liberation, but instead, many distinct flavors of loneliness: Nobody tells you what an intense experience loneliness is, how it has a lot of variations. Just hour by hour. (p.122) I guess what being alone on the road affords Tom is the permission to have these thoughts, and to process the worth of it all. He meets people along the way that have colored his life thus far (with a very aggravatingly non-optimized route, may I add), and they each help to fill in aspects of his character that explain the cold, distant, profoundly sad man we meet at the beginning. The section in Oregon with his brother is especially poignant. Markovits’ prose is deceptively plain, unassuming. There’s a thing that Tom does as a narrator, which is to skip over some conjunctions, lending some occasionally odd rhythms to his sentences. One sentence begins with the phrase, “I thought he thought”, which helps to propel the rising emotion in its context, while also adding to Tom’s tendency towards not saying much, or withholding information from others as a defense mechanism. There are also other touches that make Tom feel like a real human, one of my favorites being a man’s clothing being described as “a sort of blue medical shirt” instead of a scrub. Tom is also, we’ll say, a bit behind the times. This feels a bit prickly at times, as we get the sense that he says some off-color remarks on purpose, but it feels authentic. There’s also a sideplot that culminates towards the end, which involves a white college basketball player ostensibly wronged-by-woke – I found it extremely funny, almost Franzen-ian, the way Tom had to straightface the absolute ridiculousness coming out of that white devil’s mouth. Actually, a lot of The Rest of Our Lives was surprisingly funny, and Markovits toes the line of serious and humorous with considerable grace. I come away from The Rest of Our Lives having enjoyed it immensely. It does remind me in spots of other books that I love, particularly the aforementioned emotional journeys of Lucy Barton. Markovits writes with elegant, precise, and conversational tenderness. While I’m not probably going to be friends with a Tom Layward anytime soon, or ever, I do feel more human for having gone through this journey with him.

Shortlisted for the International Booker Prize 2023 German: Der Wal This book is full of contradictions, and I'm here for it: I HATE meandering novels, and this one meanders quite a bit - but I was still intrigued, because the over-the-top characters and storytelling are captivating. It's also both brutal and hilarious, and it employs magical elements to better illustrate reality, so all in all: ambitious stuff, and that's what the International Booker should highlight. Cheon Myeong-kwan's debut novel was first published in 2003, so it's 20 years old and already considered a contemporary classic in South Korea. Tackling the topic of societal transformation (in this case from pre- to post-modern capitalist society), it has been compared to Great Expectations as well as One Hundred Years of Solitude. The tale focuses on three women and how they navigate changing circumstances while one aspect remains the same: Sexism. Protagonist Geumbok flees her bleak live in a rural area and enters relationships with men who help her survive and then rise in the social ranks. The business-savvy, matter-of-fact woman adapts to the expanding capitalist system by starting several enterprises, the most ambitious one being the cinema in the form of the title-giving whale. Geumbok tortures and neglects the second protagonist, her mute daughter, who gets a storyline of her own. Then, we have a one-eyed woman who directs an army of bees, born into another female line of family trauma. These three narrative strands are intertwined with minor stories about other characters (the most important one being a gangster with a scar), and it's fascinating how the author maintains control of this sprawling concept. Cheon Myeong-kwan anchors his story with historical references that illustrate political turmoil and the changing social climate during the Fifth and Sixth Republic, but juxtaposes this with (intentionally) implausible twists and turns as well as magical elements that still serve to illustrate the social criticism the text intends to deliver. The language is rather plain, which helps to keep track of the multi-layered action that keeps coming back to the question how women survive in an antagonistic, merciless climate, how society judges them, and how they punish each other for their experiences. An intriguing read, and a good choice for the International Booker.

The low frequencies of a whale's song are barely audible to the human ear. This is why it is often manipulated in recordings to make it audible. The same applies to Myeong-Kwan's novel, in which the modern history of Southkorea is presented as a fairy-tale parable in which reality gains a haunting contour through numerous elements of magical realism. In the novel, the dead return, prophecies are spoken and fulfilled, gender dimensions are presented in the style of Tiresias and exposed to ridicule, a taxidermied elephant speaks and comforts an oversized child of incredible strength. It is teeming with fairy-tale characters and universal types: there is the evil witch with rotten teeth, a one-eyed bee whisperer, the pimp, the prostitute, indistinguishable twins, an insatiable giant, misanthropic sadists, simple-minded victims. And it is about all the human feelings and curses: greed, envy, jealousy, love, loyalty, ambition, faith, hope, hatred, revenge, forgiveness, torture, rape. The exuberant storyline is held together by a narrator who knows the past and the future and guides the reader through the fateful confusions with quiet irony. The construction of the plot is that of a creative architect who is also indirectly responsible for the design of a cinema in the shape of a whale, thus mirroring the fictional level in a postmodern game of shifting meanings. However, there are depths in the sea that even a whale cannot penetrate. If it does, its song turns into silence. That is the law of failure. Fortunately, the book does not fall silent after reading.

READING VLOG if Moshfegh wrote 𝘗𝘢𝘤𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘬𝘰.. From start to finish, plot builds on plot builds on plot builds on plot. So much happens on a single page that you are swept with such history, you wonder how much of it is being made daily. Myeong-Kwan is relentless in tracking every motion, every verb, every piece of information that propels Geumbok in spellbinding #girlboss energy in old Korea. Don't fuck with her!!! Because she will fuck you up! We get bits of 𝘖𝘳𝘭𝘢𝘯𝘥𝘰 and 𝘔𝘰𝘣𝘺 𝘋𝘪𝘤𝘬, making you question how far a life can go with so much hurt and resilience, so much life and love. There hasn't been a book that has kept me up reading all night, but I spent some waking hours in finishing this one, leaving me so full of awe and hurt. Ahhh! Which all surprises me given this book was released in 2004 in Korea, which is momentous given how conservative it was then (and still is) during that time. A tremendous read for anyone who needs to get out of their reading slump. Whale it up, bb!

did this book have a lot of objectionable stuff in it? yes. but did i lap up this book like it was freaking ice cream? also yes. what a wild ride this book is. i definitely would recommend this whole heartedly as just a fun book which is basically a bunch of connected short stories as a novel. we see various people and how actions affect others - either in the long run or in the moment. i thought it was brilliantly done. but definitely check the trigger warnings if you are triggered by anything at all. you can check out all my thoughts about this book & the other international booker shortlisted books here: https://youtu.be/RJcYZ6Chcsw

Have to say I didn't think I would enjoy this as much as I did. At the beginning I really wasn't into it at all but I quickly settled into the story and actually started loving the characters. I raced through it every time I was reading it because it just seemed to take on a life of its own. It follows three interconnected characters who live in South Korea and it's a very magical realism tale of the three women as they become involved with the brick making trade and the strange things that happen to them along the way. One thing that felt odd to me about this book was that on the surface it seems really quite cute and wholesome but it actually has some really disturbing parts. I heard a lot of people say this book was misogynistic and I did find the things that some of the women did/happened to the women a bit strange and didn't need to be in the story. I am still trying to work out if this was an attempt at character development or genuinely just sexism as it has just come across so odd to me I don't really know what to think of it. Overall I did really enjoy this book. I am still a little baffled by parts of it and found some of the plot points/writing a little hard to believe and enjoy but it was a really brilliantly told tale and it was great to dive into the world of South Korean magic realism.

book club discussion? not my fav. book? really enjoyable.

Whale is an exciting and funny novel set in South Korea. It tells the story of Geumbok, a determined woman, her daughter Chunhui, who can't speak, and a woman with one eye who controls honeybees. The novel is filled with surprises and humour and gives a fresh perspective on Korea's transition from the past to the present. The story starts in a small village, where Geumbok grows up in poverty but manages to succeed through her wit and determination. Her daughter Chunhui, who can only communicate with elephants, faces loneliness and works in a brickmaking factory. The bond between these two women and their struggles reflect the challenges faced by women in Korean society. The story combines elements of adventure and satire, with a touch of magic, to explore Korean history and culture. It's like a larger-than-life fairy tale that takes readers on a journey through time. The whale is a symbol that appears throughout the book, representing Geumbok's desire for something greater and the unfulfilled dreams of the characters. The magical realism style is also reminiscent of acclaimed authors such as Gabriel García Márquez or Eka Kurniawan, with their witty mix of fantasy and historical events, creating a unique reading experience. It's like watching an amazing film, which is not surprising considering the author's background in filmmaking (as happens, film is also a leitmotif that fills in the story other than whale). Whale also captures the essence of "han," a Korean concept of deep-seated emotions like rage, grief, and sorrow. It adds depth to the story, reflecting the characters' internal struggles and the Korean cultural identity. Whale doesn't shy away from depicting violence and brutality. While these scenes may be disturbing, they serve a purpose in showing the challenges faced by the characters and their pursuit of justice. The novel has elements of revenge, as the characters seek retribution for the injustices they face. I frequently got lost in the middle of reading it. Not getting lost in the sense of missing the plots or scenes, but more like absorbed in the story. The absurdities of the plots often left me uncertain about which stage of the book I was in, yet it didn’t really matter. Throughout the book, there are many memorable moments and images that tug at the heartstrings. One touching scene is when Chunhui imagines talking to Jumbo the Elephant, her only friend. It's a mix of sadness and sweetness that brings tears to my eyes. Whale is a captivating and moving novel that explores Korean history, mother-daughter bonds, and the human spirit.

some parts made me physically unwell but this was sooooo well-written, loved the narrator

This book is surprisingly disgusting and weird in a way that I hate to admit that I still love exploring this book (maybe bcs I'm curious) So you've been warned. Violence, rape, assault, greed, sexual freedom, obsession with the law, flesh, and description of body parts. I could brutally list out the trigger warning but let me just keep it that way. I was literally fooled by the cover. Set smooth at the very first page then afterward, my forehead formed a wrinkle *laugh* Yes I was laughing when those explicit details hit me. I was so confused but still want to know where this book heading. This book explores the rise and fall of a mother and daughter. However, you will follow the lives of three linked characters - Geumbok (mother), Chunhui (daughter), and a one-eyed woman. The vast amount of back stories and life issues that they face consider women being labeled unfortunate and the cruel treatment made me sick with the men who existed in that book. However, it also tackles the changes in socio-economy as war erupted during Geumbok's back story. Some plots I enjoyed but some *phew* I feel restless. Despite the unhinged storyline, it was still well-translated and pretty much straightforward. So I'm kind of in the middle of the minor and major to like this book. Plus, I don't find any likable character in here except maybe for Chunhui. I took time to pour my thoughts into this book as it was a different attempt for me to read this kind of setting. Honestly, I'm not quite sure about the message of the book but if you're curious, just hop in later. Thanks to Times Read for the reviewed copy!

The book started with an old crone molesting the boy she cared for because he was packing. Then she killed him and then everything else happens in this weird but very good book.

Wow this was very different to the books I usually read but I was immediately very engaged with it! Really unique and well written. Loses a star because the end goes on a bit and I continued to feel a bit weird about how the constant theme of sex was dealt with through the book.

i fear i'm falling in love with yet another edition. these are just too well curated. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... this book explores the topic of motherhood on hard mode: by following two women, one who does not want children and yet begins to care for the troubled son of her neighbor, and one who changes her mind and becomes pregnant only to give birth to a baby with immense health problems. it's very short and its multitudinous chapters are even shorter, but it manages to cover so much — not only the nuanced feelings of our protagonists but of their friends, mother, nanny. extraordinary. bottom line: fitzcarraldo, you have my attention.

An impactful and sweet feminist novel about motherhood in many different forms. It's about the desire (or not) to become a mother, the love for your own child and the desire to care for somebody else's child. It is quite tough in places because, as the title somewhat suggests, it is partly about a gravely disabled newborn - I can imagine not everyone is in the mood for that but I thought the way it was done very respectful and not overly dramatic. I liked the friendships between the women in this book as well and the main character was almost an inspiration. It reads very easily (compliments to the translator) and felt very natural and gives loads to think about, so all in all highly recommended. 4,5 Thanks a lot to Fitzcarraldo and Netgalley for the ARC

I understand what this novel was trying to do and it is witty and at times genuinely moving. It does feel like two novels in one. The first is a novel about what it means to be Very Online and if you aren’t, I am not sure that it will make sense. The second is about a a family managing a terrible tragedy and how it magnified what really matters and does not matter. I really enjoyed this but I did wish the two novels felt more like one. Regardless, Lockwood is a phenomenal writer who is a keen observer of the strangeness of online culture and the fragility of the human heart.

I almost never give really high ratings. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... Primarily, this is because I am very critical and cynical, which is a nice way of saying that I'm mean and nightmarish to be around. But I think there is probably another reason, and that reason is that I f*cking hate writing positive reviews. I was brought into this world to complain. My purpose in life is to drag others down ever so slightly. My goals include being the biggest hater I can and subsisting as close to off cookies alone as humanly possible. (The second one is unrelated, but equally important.) And by definition, reviews of books I have found to be extremely good offer very little opportunity to do any of this. But here we are. Another five star. This book is very funny. It is also very sad. It sums up what it is to be Terminally Online, and it also sums up what it is to love and be loved, to find fulfillment and lose it, to grieve. That's a lot to accomplish in barely 200 pages. Add to that the fact that I laughed (weird to do by yourself in semi-darkness while staring at words on paper), I kind of cried (previously weird to do, but now something I apparently do every time I like anything, which is fortunately for aforementioned reasons not that often), and I still think about it sometimes even though it's been a month since I read it (I put off reviews as much as possible), and it deserves 4.5 stars. At least. Unfortunately for us all. Bottom line: So good it may ruin my reputation. And also my enjoyment of review-writing. ---------------- pre-review i laughed, i cried. how often can you say that seriously? review to come / 4.5 at least maybe 5 probably 5 ---------------- currently-reading updates this book has been on my can't wait to read shelf for a year and yet i have let 3 separate library holds expire. let's try this again. ---------------- tbr review very funny title for a book people won't stop telling me to read..........

‘A mind was merely something trying to make it in the world.’ Doomscrolling, thirst traps, subtweets, chonky bois, stans, sliding into DMs, shouting YAS or saying a MOOD tbh… the landscape of social media has forever altered our lexicon, our politics, our social interactions and more. It’s a rapidly shifting world with a new main character everyday (the goal of twitter, of course, is to remain as active as possible but never BE the main character) and can be an utter minefield of social anxieties and attacks. And we love it. But how has this altered the way we engage with the world around us, especially in wake of tragedy? There are few people better equipped to tell a narrative of being Extremely Online than the Poet Laureate of Twitter herself, Patricia Lockwood. Author of the much acclaimed 2017 memoir Priestdaddy, Patricia @TriciaLockwood Lockwood has made a smash through social media, her poem Rape Joke having been a viral hit and even meeting her now-husband in a poetry chatroom. No One is Talking About This plays close to autofiction as it follows a twitter-celebrity as she speaks at social media conferences around the world and generally shitposts and laughs her way through the online community termed here as The Portal. The book takes an abrupt turn when, having existed so long in the hellscape of twitter she isn’t sure how to interact as a normal human anymore and tragedy strikes her family. From laugh-out-loud-until-you-cry funny to actually sobbing, this book is an emotional rollercoaster through our modern condition brought to life through Lockwood’s satirical and cutting observations. ‘It was a mistake to believe that other people were not living as deeply as you were. Besides, you were not even living that deeply.’ This is the great Twitter novel we’ve always assumed someone would write, and as someone who is shamelessly very online myself I definitely felt this novel quite profoundly. Being both in on the jokes and the butt of the jokes, I suspect anyone who has ever paused to reflect on the nature of social media and the bizarre psychology of twitter (or really any social media) will get a lot from Lockwood’s musings. Lockwood preserves the vernacular of the last few years and this book is overflowing with references to viral tweets and passing social media quirks (LitHub has brilliantly annotated all the memes and references here). ‘It was so tiring to have to catch each new virus,’ Lockwood writes about keeping on pace with social media, ‘produce the perfect sneaze of it [sic], and then mutate it into something new.’. Anyone who has clamoured to reproduce a new meme or spent an afternoon perfecting the perfect parody of Williams’ This Is Just to Say will feel seen, as they say. The humor here is crude but on point, with jokes about parents using horny emojis without knowing what they mean, kinks, perverted viral commercials, etc. The book fairly well reproduces a twitter feed in style, with staccato sentences and rapid fire thoughts spaced out on the page. While Lockwood credits David Markson for much of the inspiration, she admits the layout was for this exact purpose in an interview with the New Yorker: The empty space is interrupted by these brief bursts of communal consciousness. The movement among these small explosions is what provides the plot, the ambulation. The arrangement and the presentation are what make it fictional, as the selves we present in the portal are fictional.’ The communal consciousness is what Lockwood seeks to unpack. This all feels particularly poignant as the book is set mid-Trump administration (referred to humorously as ‘the dictator’ in the book) when online interactions turned up the heat even as we realized so much of the behavior everyone rallied against was formed and perpetuated through social media. ’Every day we were seeing new evidence that suggested it was the portal that had allowed the dictator to rise to power. This was humiliating. It would be like discovering that the Vietnam War was secretly caused by ham radios, or that Napoleon was operating exclusively on the advice of a parrot named Brian’ We live in a world where ‘ A person might join a site to look at pictures of her nephew and five years later believe in a flat earth,’ where I have relatives that followed me to see photos of my children and then posted on my graduation from college post that I should be lined up with my classmates and shot because college was ‘liberal brainwashing’. SOCIAL MEDIA IS FUN GUYS I SWEAR THANKS UNCLE JIM! Lockwood examines the ways our interactions with people have shifted, as well as the way we receive information and what responsibility we have to what we put out into the world. He comments, for example, on how it was likely she saw Heather Heyer’s death at Charlottesville even before Heather’s own mother would have been notified. We built this technology and corporations are making way too much money with it for there to be any chance we will turn it off, so buckle up, humanity, here we go. However, at the same time it is a really useful and beautiful tool to interact with people around the globe, share ideas, share love, spread awareness, help people who otherwise wouldn’t be able to get out or around interact, etc, so it’s all a very double-edged sword so to speak. I’m thankful for a platform such as this to share and discuss books with all of you, and I really value many of the friendships I’ve made on here and other platforms and cool opportunities I wouldn’t have had without it. So thanks, social media. @poe_a_tree is me if you want to follow, I wouldn't. For the first half of the book we follow the musings of the narrator who became famous for the simple tweet ‘can a dog be twins? (‘is this your contribution to society?’ someone aggresses on her at a conference holding up a printout of that tweet), which parodies Lockwood's own viral hit 'So is Paris any good or not' on twitter. She laughs at herself and the way she turns everything into a joke, shouting ‘shoot it into my veins’ at funny posts and wondering why is she like this. Then comes part two and the floor drops out. A quick text from her mother asking her to come home cues up a really tragic narrative switch to her sister’s unborn baby being diagnosed with Proteus Syndrome, a ‘one-in-a-billion diagnoses’ best known for being the condition of the ’Elephant Man’, Joseph Merrick. This section is all the more tragic knowing it is based on Lockwood and her sister’s real experiences. Heads up, this book is going to make you cry and the way the two sections don’t seem to quite blend together is an excellent example of the way ‘real’ life and online don’t quite blend either (Fake Accounts by Lauren Oyler is another recent book to tackle this idea). ‘There is still a real life to be lived,’ the narrator must remind herself as she is plunged back into figuring out how to be a person again and not a content-creator. The ongoings of the Portal suddenly don’t seem interesting or enlightened anymore and the frailty of life is examined as something bittersweet. Her traditionally conservative and pro-life family is suddenly met with one of the instances they’ve disbelieved their whole life and everyone is confronted with the sadness of it all. Being conservative Ohio, this is also timed with a turnover in the Supreme Court that has brought reproductive rights to the center stage of public political discourse and only amplifies the severity of her sister’s lack of options and women like her. ‘The faces of the senators were always comfortably closed against them, like doors on a federal holiday. Because the worst case scenarios had happened to them, the women must have done something to deserve it. They knew nothing about this period...when we were not yet the people it happened to. What proceeds from here is very moving, heartbreaking and very real. Seriously, get ready for tears. Lockwood has done something really special here. While sure, it might not age well, it also seems a great way to both memorialize the brief life of her niece as well as our current period of time. Lockwood even mocks her own endeavour, talking about how books about online life ‘had the strong whiff of old white intellectuals being weird about the blues, with possible boner involvement’, so at least she is self aware. Brilliantly observant despite being a bit too on-the-nose, this is a really moving book that is also seriously very funny. No One is Talking About This will, in fact, be a book people will be talking about. Don’t @ me. 4/5 ‘What did we have the right to expect from this life? What were the terms of the contract? What had the politicians promised us? The realtor, walking us through being’s beautiful house? Could we sue? We would sue! Could we blow it all open? We would blow it all open! Could we ... could we post about it?’

Is it just me, or should e.v.e.r.y.o.n.e. be Talking About This? Preferably with 'a feeling of clicking completeness'. (Marvellous writing, this.) Of course, in my very specific case, it took three words, no more than three words: the blurb, summoning me, with this 'urgent, genre-defying book' – yes, please. Mind you, am I – me,myself,&I – on particularly close terms with the Eternal Scroll? Hardly. It took me that extra embarrassing second to realise that the 'portal' referred to the internet – the mediatic dimension of twenty-first century existence. Also, as further proof, I got more unhealthily excited about this, more emotionally invested in it, when the 'portal's void' got in the picture. Because, clearly, Lockwood's level(s) of disappearance – into the portal – make this book (what to call it?) what it is: a very-Now dip into the imperceptible absurdities of present living that seeks to capture its solid 'somewhere-elseness' – the magma of its 'consciousness'. A quirky, keen, distinctive female voice that transforms words and sentences; that replicates the fragmentary, erratic, improvisational quality of the portal and re-envisions the literary Fragment. This is what writing should also be doing. Might surely take some mental recalibration. The style, for one thing, might not be to everyone's taste. Not to mention the humour. (But let's face it, it is downright funny.) The mix of irreverence and delicate beauty, moreover, is brilliantly executed. Can it be a bit much? Certainly. But this book, equally certainly, demands that its readers plunge themselves into its dislocated midst, and experience its vigorous fleetingness – or semi-expire amidst its vaguely psychedelic pages. Whatever works best. But Read Read Read Read Read it 4.25 stars - Lockwood's is an important achievement. All this internet. All this technology. All this screen-scrolling. Can we even begin to understand what it is that it is doing to us?

4.5 What a phenomenal reading experience that challenged me and made me a better reader. I usually take a few days to think about the book before I write my review, but given the way this was written I know that I will be better served writing this now. There is very decidedly a Part 1 and a Part 2 of this book. (It's broken up this way so it's helpful.) Part 1 is very weird (but not in a bad way) until you get used to it and also kind of hilarious and sad. Both parts are written in the same style, however Part 1 is a more rapid fire/stream of consciousness on the state of things prior to COVID. (Culturally, socially and politically.) You know that the narrator is a female, probably in her late 20s/early 30s and that she went viral online. That's about it. There are no character names, no real plot - just musings on things. Smart and observant musings though. I was highlighting like crazy! To be helpful, I thought I would reference some of the themes discussed to aid if you're deciding to pick this up or not. Topics: -Our reliance on technology - we are slaves to it and it is rapidly interfering with each generation more and more the younger someone is. -Trump is never mentioned by name, but referred to as 'The Dictator'. I think that is all you really need to know on that. -Women's rights and health -Climate change - we are destroying the Earth and no one cares Then comes Part 2. Part 2 is intense. I don't want to spoil it, but it's very moving. It's also something that does need to be discussed. I feel like the book kind of calmed down for this portion. The stream of consciousness aspect was still the same, but the pace wasn't as fast. The paragraphs were longer and more emotional. It was very much how any human being going through an intense emotional experience would handle themselves. There is the bliss of life before and then there is the current and the after. Where your eyes are opened and the things that were so important before aren't important anymore. Overall, this book really helped me grow and look at the many ways a story can be told. I am thrilled to have received this and hope this something you can be open minded enough to try. It's different, but it's very worth it. Thank you to Riverhead Books and Patricia Lockwood for the gifted finished copy. Publication Date: 02/16/2021

I was a huge fan of Patricia Lockwood's memoir Priestdaddy, a book I have recommended to many people. A couple of years ago, I heard her speak at an event in Dublin with Sally Rooney and thought she was hilarious. So I was eager to get stuck into her debut novel, especially when I heard that it addressed internet culture, a topic she clearly knows a lot about. The book is divided into two parts. In the first, the protagonist has achieved fame via a viral post that reads: "Can a dog be twins?". She travels the world on the back of this and other humorous tweets, speaking about the internet (or "the portal" as she refers to it) on panels and at conferences. In the second part, the woman is urged to return to her family home, where her sister is experiencing pregnancy complications. The first half may test the reader's patience. How much you get out of it probably depends on how internet savvy you are. There are a lot in-jokes and references to popular memes. As an avid Twitter user myself, I found it funny and clever, though perhaps there was a lack of heft to this part of the novel. It's more like a collection of witty observations about social media, such as the sheer absurdity of it all: "As she began to type, “Enormous fatberg made of grease, wet wipes, and condoms is terrorizing London’s sewers,” her hands began to waver in their outlines and she had to rock the crown of her head against the cool wall, back and forth, back and forth. What, in place of these sentences, marched in the brains of previous generations? Folk rhymes about planting turnips, she guessed." Or how the Twitter mob decides on its next victim: "Every day their attention must turn, like the shine on a school of fish, all at once, toward a new person to hate. Sometimes the subject was a war criminal, but other times it was someone who made a heinous substitution in guacamole. It was not so much the hatred she was interested in as the swift attenuation, as if their collective blood had made a decision." Or how addictive the Internet can become: "When she was away from it, it was not just like being away from a body, but a warm body that wanted her. The way, when she was gone from it, she thought so longingly of My information. Oh, my answers. Oh, my everything I never knew I needed to know. Everything changes in the second part. The family heartache that befalls the protagonist gives the story an emotional core. It causes her to reexamine her life. However, while she begins to grasp the insignificance of the internet in the grand scheme of things, silly Twitter jokes are still sent between the narrator and her sister as a way of coping with their situation. It's OK for both worlds to co-exist, Lockwood seems to be saying. Without giving too much away, I found the second half of the story incredibly moving. Lockwood writes so beautifully about the main character's love for her little niece and the world she is so eager for her to experience: "The things she wanted the baby to know seemed small, so small. How it felt to go to a grocery store on vacation; to wake at three a.m. and run your whole life through your fingertips; first library card; new lipstick; a toe going numb for two months because you wore borrowed shoes to a friend’s wedding; Thursday; October; “She’s Like the Wind” in a dentist’s office; driver’s license picture where you look like a killer; getting your bathing suit back on after you go to the bathroom; touching a cymbal for sound and then touching it again for silence; playing house in the refrigerator box; letting a match burn down to the fingerprints; one hand in the Scrabble bag and then I I I O U E A; eyes racing to the end of Villette (skip the parts about the crétin, sweetheart), hamburger wrappers on a road trip; the twist of a heavy red apple in an orchard; word on the tip of the tongue; the portal, but just for a minute." If I do have some slight reservations about the book, it's with the first half. The nature of its fragmented commentary on social media may put some readers off and it's possible the cultural references contained within will date rapidly. But the devastating second half elevates the story into something profound, putting the protagonist's earlier carefree existence and trivial concerns into context. I experienced lots of emotions reading this book: it made me laugh, it brought a tear to my eye, and it made me grateful that we have writers as poetic and incisive as Patricia Lockwood, who can make sense of this modern world and all its madness.

the great Twitter novel.

I loved how unusual this book is. It felt refreshing. ‘When she set the portal down, the Thread tugged her back toward it. She could not help following it. This might be the one that connected everything, that would knit her to an indestructible coherence’

Can a dog be twins? Following the life of an influencer who got famous because of her tweets and told in two parts, No One is Talking About This is unconventional, strange, and completely original. The influencer, who is invited all over the world to speak, refers to the internet as “the portal.” It is where she lives. It is a place where she is always either amused or in shock. Through her, Lockwood’s observation of the internet (and how we use it) is nothing short of acute. Every day their attention must turn, like the shine on a school of fish, toward a new person to hate. Sometimes the subject was a war criminal, but other times it was someone who made a heinous substitution in guacamole. It was not so much the hatred she was interested in as the swift attenuation as if their collective blood had made a decision. When I first started this book, I didn’t know what to expect or where it would take me. It’s experimental, so I get why some people don’t like it, and I may have to read it again to fully appreciate it, but I have to say that I really enjoyed it on my first read. In contrast with her generation, which had spent most of its time online learning to code so that it could add crude butterfly animations to the backgrounds of its weblogs, the generation immediately following had spent most of its time online making incredibly bigoted jokes in order to laugh at the idiots who were stupid enough to think they meant it. Except after a while, they did mean it, and then somehow at the end of it, they were Nazis. Was this always how it happened? If you spend a lot of time on Twitter as I do, the written format here clicks with you almost immediately. Told in a fragmented style to mirror the endless scroll, most of what “happens” in this novel is completely unrelated; put simply- most of it makes no sense. Read it long enough, though, and you slowly realize that’s exactly Lockwood’s point. Just like tweets, the passages are profane, profound, hilarious, nonsensical, and straight-up weird. And just like Twitter, you’ll either get it or you won’t. The people who lived in the portal were often compared to those legendary experiment rats who kept hitting a button over and over to get a pellet. But at least the rats were getting a pellet, or the hope of a pellet, or the memory of a pellet. When we hit the button, all we were getting was to become more of a rat. Special mention must be made of the second half and how moving it is. Pulling the narrator from the stream of the portal into the stream of reality, the style of the first part doesn’t change. Effective in its portrayal of grief, there’s more of a story here; it shows how incapable we are of dealing with loss and trauma. And how poetic the whole thing is! Her face was luminous, as if someone had put flesh on the bone of the moon, and her beautiful blue eyes were larger than ever, as if coming to the end of what was there to see. This was called fluid shift, one of those accidental diamonds of hospital language that sometimes shone out from the dust. She thought of lava lamps and swallowing seas and flocks flying south, time-lapse footage of sunsets, ants clambering over molasses, the sweet spread of information, what had happened long ago, on earth and in our mouths, to the vowels. If you have an interest in social media, or an interest in any of the books shortlisted for the Booker prize, or maybe you just want to read something unusual, I'd suggest reading this. Love it or hate it, you will be talking about this.

If you've never been on Twitter, or only vaguely understand how it works, then this is a book you’ll probably want to avoid. But if terms like blue-check, quote-tweet, sub-tweet, and muting are familiar to you, then there's a good chance you'll enjoy this every bit as much as I did. I used to be one of those people who swore they’d never be caught dead using the word "tweet" in any context that was not about birds. I despised the stingy 280-character limit and sadistic absence of any "Edit" function. All of the #'s and @'s cluttering up every tweet seemed like some kind of inscrutable code used by a pretentious private club I had no desire to join. But the universe has a funny way of humbling (or is it mocking?) us about these things, and a few years ago I was basically forced to join Twitter as part of my job. Over time, I've gone from resentfully tolerating it to openly enjoying it. My Twitter feed has become a comically bizarre mash-up of Politics Twitter, Gay Twitter, Black Twitter, Arts Twitter, and Porn Twitter. During the BLM protests last summer, I grew to appreciate the immediacy and intimacy of Twitter journalism, the way it relayed urgent stories in real time that mainstream media would only get around to reporting a day or two later, if at all. I felt inspired by the almost surreal democratization of it all, with politicians, academics, celebrities, and ordinary citizens all interacting and sharing information, political analyses, humor, and pop culture with one another in ways they never could have done in earlier times. Of course I've also witnessed firsthand Twitter's dark and dangerous power, the way misinformation, slanderous accusations, and anti-democratic conspiracy theories can spread like wildfire; or the way self-righteous "woke" mobs can destroy reputations and stifle free speech in a mere matter of minutes. Patricia Lockwood touches on all of this and so much more in this wonderfully weird and compulsively readable book. It's an intimate and at times unsettling account of Twitter Culture and what it feels like when the lines between Twitterverse and Real World start to blur. But it's also broader and deeper than that, capturing with impressive and poignant accuracy EXACTLY how it felt to live through the nightmare of these past four to five years; how we paradoxically managed to preserve AND lose our collective sanity by coming together to commiserate and cope with our national trauma through Twitter. It's a PTSD novel for the post-Trump era, distilling all of our anxiety, terror, disbelief, and helpless rage into written word form unlike anything else I've read so far. It also happens to be deliriously, addictively FUNNY. Lockwood satirizes the many absurdities and superficialities of this new digital age while also guiltily celebrating them at the same time. I found her ambivalence to be both refreshingly honest and deeply relatable. I suspect I may be in the minority by preferring Part 1 over Part 2. I appreciated what Part 2 was trying to do, but it felt tame and predictable compared to the exhilarating, almost manic stream-of-consciousness energy from Part 1. I'm going to say 5 stars for the first half, 3 stars for the second half, meeting in the middle at a unique and unforgettable 4 stars.

Patricia Lockwood’s unnamed protagonist became famous for posting the question, “Can a dog be twins?” That inane koan launched her globe-spanning career as a social media star. What follows is a series of isolated moments about a woman who is both a creature and a critic of the Web. “No One Is Talking About This” refers to the Internet as “the portal,” which is all part of its effort to disorient us enough to see how bizarre modern life has become. The narrator, raised “to a certain airy prominence,” lives in a surreal fusion with social media. “She opened the portal, and the mind met her more than half-way,” Lockwood writes. “Why did the portal feel so private, when you only entered it when you needed to be everywhere?” Such are the abiding mysteries of experience engineered by a few weird billionaires in Silicon Valley. “This did not feel like real life, exactly,” she says, “but nowadays what did?” The short sections that pour across these pages — most not much longer than a couple of tweets — offer a tour of our collective consciousness, the great cacophony of images and voices that catch the virtual world’s attention: “She lay every morning under an avalanche of details, blissed, pictures of breakfasts in Patagonia, a girl applying her foundation with a hard-boiled egg, a shiba inu in Japan leaping from paw to paw to greet its own owner, ghostly pale women posting pictures of their bruises — the world pressing closer and closer, the spiderweb of human connection grown so thick it was almost a shimmering and solid silk.” You can hear in these moments Lockwood’s experience as a poet. She’s a master of startling concision when highlighting the absurdities we’ve grown too lazy to. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...

I had a complicated relationship with this book by the literary and internet sensation Patricia Lockwood because I had to undergo surgery and was initially impatient with the semi-autobiographical main character’s clever internet pace tweeting, meming, just shallow cleverness. I already knew in advance that some real world serious event would make her reconsider her relation to fame, what she calls “the portal” for some reason. I know she is a multi-medi star for our time, and that she is smart and a poet as well as a tweeter, and not just funny, but it took my return to this short book to appreciate what she is doing. Lockwood is described generationally as “between the books and the ether.” She speaks of the “world pressing closer and closer, the spiderweb of human connection grown so thick it was almost a shimmering and solid silk.” So she can write, is intriguing. She is known, I read, for an amusing comic “theory” about dinosaur extinction: “gentlemen dinosaurs” failed to satisfy their partners, and they all died in “AN EARTHQUAKE CAUSED BY THE VIOLENT AND EARTH-SHATTERING MOVEMENT OF LADY DINOSAURS’ VIBRATORS.” And so yeah, she can make you laugh, a darling of the ether. So the serious turn this novel, after early on being a kind of pastiche of clever observation perfect for internet fame that I eventually came to appreciate a bit more, is based on Lockwood’s own sister’s baby, who was born with a rare, life-threatening genetic disorder, and died a few months after his birth. A year later, another of her sisters gave birth to a baby that had a different life-threatening genetic disorder. So, after some manic hilarity we have some emotional grounding in “reality.” I dunno. I feel the same way I did after reading Jenny Offills’ Weather: I asked myself, is this narrator clueless and so this is social satire, or is the author also somewhat clueless? I guess I think No One is Talking About This is ultimately a satirical send-up of internet discourse and fame, written by someone who has already manipulated that discourse to her own fame. I already had accepted that point about the clever vapidity of the internet, based on my own experience of it, and so a lot of it early on was merely annoying in spite of her intentions. But ultimately I guess I buy her point and will probably read some of her poetry, at least. But in spite of her fame, I likely won’t follow her on Twitter. Here's some quotations that can help you get the flavor of it: “Modern womanhood was more about rubbing snail mucus on your face than she had thought it would be. But it had always been something, hadn’t it? Taking drops of arsenic. Winding bandages around the feet. Polishing your teeth with lead. It was so easy to believe you freely chose the paints, polishes, and waist-trainers of your own time, while looking back with tremendous pity to women of the past in their whalebones; that you took the longest strides your body was capable of, while women of the past limped forward on broken arches.” “Capitalism! It was important to hate it, even though it was how you got money. Slowly, slowly, she found herself moving toward a position so philosophical even Jesus couldn’t have held it: that she must hate capitalism while at the same time loving film montages set in department stores.” “The people who lived in the portal were often compared to those legendary experiment rats who kept hitting a button over and over to get a pellet. But at least the rats were getting a pellet, or the hope of a pellet, or the memory of a pellet. When we hit the button, all we were getting was to be more of a rat.” “They kept raising their hands excitedly to high-five, for they had discovered something even better than being soulmates: that they were exactly, and happily, and hopelessly, the same amount of online.” Finally, she tries to make clear: “There is still a real life to be lived, there are still real things to be done.” Which most of us already knew? But if you take this as social satire, she can be funny.

Shortlisted Booker Prize 2021 Shortlisted Women's Prize for Fiction 2021 Before reading No One is Talking About This, I had never heard of the terms binch, gentrficamole, or the expression " a girl applying her foundation with a hard-boiled egg." Similarly, I did not know what it meant to be corncobbed or the origins of these terms and phrases. I don't do Twitter and have never read Lauren Oyler or Jennifer Offill, so Patricia' Lockwood's novel felt like entering strange and unchartered territory. The unnamed protagonist of No One is Talking About This inhabits the portal, a twitter-like internet site. She has become famous for her viral posts and travels the globe, giving lectures on social media and the "communal mind." In the first half of the book, Lockwood re-creates the online experience by structuring the text in short, wry, twitter-like entries that include allusions to online memes. When, at a lecture, she discusses her most famous tweet, "Can a dog be a twin?" an audience member asks, "Is this your contribution?" and then leaves in disgust, I found myself nodding my head in agreement. However, in the second half of the book, Lockwood jolts the protagonist into reality. Her pregnant younger sister learns that her unborn baby has a rare genetic disorder that threatens her life. The protagonist returns home to Ohio and her family to assist and sit vigil throughout her niece's short, sad life. Lockwood skillfully draws the contrast between the protagonist's interactions with her family members throughout this tragedy that " no one is talking about" and the world on her phone. The result is a provocative and critical analysis of living online. (If like me, you are unfamiliar with the Twitter universe, I recommend reading the article, "All the memes In Patricia Lockwood's No One Is Talking About This, explained." before reading the book. https://lithub.com/all-the-memes-in-p...

4.5. Very close to a 5. Lockwood's No One is Talking About This is a novel of the moment, (shortlisted for the 2021 Women's Prize for Fiction and I reckon a strong contender for Booker prize listing). It's receiving a lot of well-deserved attention and positive reviews: everyone is talking about it :) Structurally it really is a novel in two halves and for me it's how these two halves resonate in tension and even contradiction that make this such a great work. Many readers comment on the heartrending power of the second half. Yup, with its lyrical intensity and precision it hits you in the soul and guts. The pain and sadness and wonder of the female narrator and her family (especially sister) as they go through a tragic experience is very much my Hamnet read of 2021. I shed a few tears (not just at the authentic humanity that is shared here in all its raw pain but also for the gorgeous, lyrical poetic language). In the first half of the work the nameless female protagonist comes through as an ironic, witty denzien of Twitter (here called the portal). Building something of a celebrity status through her all too knowingly ironic tweets and meme creation, she strives to always be funny (and even the layers of irony should never be taken seriously). The sense built through the fragmentary pointillist passages (all so twitteresque in form) is of a voice and perhaps wider shared social media collective consciousness quickly disappearing up its own orifice in a kind of black hole of nihilistic triviality. "The mind we were in was obsessive, perseverant. It swam with superstition and half-remembered facts pertaining to how many spiders we ate a year and the rate at which dentists killed themselves. One hemisphere had never been to college, the other hemisphere had attended one of those institutions that is only ever referred to as a bubble, though not beautiful At times it disintegrated into lists of diseases. But worth remembering: the mind had been, in its childhood, a place of play. It had also once been the place where you sounded like yourself. Gradually it had become the place where we sounded like each other, through some erosion of wind or water on a self not nearly as firm as stone" So there's also a kind of nostalgia here for a time in which the internet was a place of optimistic promise and potential. I won't quote these passages here as they are fun and funny for readers to discover for themselves (identifying some contemporary meme moments), but there's at same time an unsettling lyricism to how Lockwood crafts these passages. And I think this style prefigures the shift that interrupts all of this in the second half (the painful intervention of real life and relationships that exceed the life of the portal). Some critics suggest the first half (with the focus on a life lived in and through the portal as a commentary on our social media moment) isn't as successful as the second. That it feels a little too contrived in its staging of the witty fragments, too much 'look at me, look how funny and knowingly , wink-wink, ironic I'm being. Even laughing at the irony. Look how well I set that one up, even coating it with all that laser like lyricism for my knowing readers'. Here's a review from The Guardian that I think expresses this issue well: https://www.theguardian.com/books/202.... And yes there is that. But structurally, in counterpoint with the second half of this work, just wow. For me it works so well and casts each half differently. As the second-half echoes and reverberates back into the first-half and vice-versa, literary excellence for me. As the narrator asks in the second half: "If all she was was funny, and none of this was funny, where did that leave her?" I wouldn't give up on the power of funny and comedy so easily, even in the midst of life's painful, searing tragedies. And you will see there's a moment of almost joyous, absurd humor shared in the final pages that I think offers a kind of response to this question and perhaps also throws into relief, but differently, the edgy humour that characterises the book's first half. There's much to admire here. No One is Talking About This would be I think a well deserved winner of the Women's prize for fiction and most definitely earns its place on the shortlist.

FINAL REVIEW: Before going into this book, I’d heard it being labeled as a “Twitter novel.” I was like, what the heck does that mean? I get it now. Each point the author is making is written almost like tweets. The same way most tweets are designed to make the most impact with the economy of words, a straight-to-the-point manner and a razor sharp wit. This book sort of does that. It is written in fractured prose. We’re given bite-sized paragraphs which are designed to make a certain point before we move on to the next cool thing. I haven’t fully embraced this style of writing, similar to Jenny Offill’s “Weather.” but I enjoyed it a lot more here. Maybe it’s because I thought this book did a lot more interesting things with the structure. Plus, the style works with the themes the book attempts to explore. I could easily see particular readers giving up by the time they reach Page 20. This is going to be polarizing for a lot of readers. Interested to see who calls it brilliant, pretentious, fun or annoying. I’m curious to see if it advances for the Women’s Prize. The first half is about social media, highlighting everything we love and loathe about it. If you’re up to date on the Twitterverse, memes, GIFs, pop culture, political statements, and social movements, you’ll recognize some of the stuff Lockwood is referring to. This sort of puts a spotlight on how much social media has shaped our lives for better or worse. And how much time we spend or waste online. OOOOOF, ain’t that a relatable and relevant topic. The second half abruptly switches gears, shifting into a much more morose tone. It was a jarring switchup. But I believe this is here to juxtapose online life and real life; how hard it is for many of us to connect to real life issues these days because we’re so consumed with our online presence. Once we’re confronted with something real, devastatingly real, we don’t know how we’re supposed to act. We even wonder that dreaded question, “hmm, is okay to tweet about this?” https://www.instagram.com/p/CMm4O8jrz...

This is a novel in two parts. The first half bored me to tears. The second half broke me into pieces. Let me try and explain. This book began as a diary in which Lockwood captured the experience of being Extremely Online (or, as I would put it, addicted to the internet). The structure is suitably fragmented, featuring short snippets of text that resemble a Twitter feed, flitting from topic to topic: politics, controversies, memes, banter, anecdotes, aphorisms (for those, like me, who aren’t on Twitter, backstories to particular Twitter controversies can be found in a LitHub article). The snippets are briefly beguiling but ultimately mind-numbing. They rely on a careful combination of hyperbolic and sarcastic humour that becomes increasingly grating. Much of it is ironic, absurdist, crass and crude, and intentionally so (Olivia Laing’s Crudo comes to mind). Occasionally, though, the text emits truth bombs such as the following: “Every day their attention must turn, like the shine on a school of fish, all at once, toward a new person to hate. Sometimes the subject was a war criminal, but other times it was someone who made a heinous substitution in guacamole. It was not so much the hatred she was interested in as the swift attenuation, as if their collective blood had made a decision.” The internet, referred to as “the portal”, is both a “collective experiment in eavesdropping” and the “bloodstream of the now”, embodying a “mindlessness that almost approaches enlightenment”. It has taken on the shape of a “communal mind”. The narrator no longer knows where she ends and the portal begins, believing her thoughts to be dictated: “It had once been the place where you sounded like yourself. Gradually it had become the place where we sounded like each other, through some erosion of wind or water on a self not nearly as firm as stone.” For better or worse, the book captures the intensity and absurdity of life lived online, highlighting broader issues of Context Collapse. ............... Halfway, however, the text pivots. Real Life happens. A family emergency involving her sister’s baby forces the narrator to step outside of the “portal”. She takes on the role of caretaker and second mother to this baby. Everything that seemed so urgent before falls away completely. Here, Lockwood’s dry and sarcastic writing style is employed to great effect, relating an emotionally intense story in a manner that feels authentic and convincing. Detail and humour elevate the story from mere melodrama to something deeply affecting (I had to reach for tissues, which is unusual for me). When the narrator returns to the portal, briefly, her relationship to it is modulated. ............... So there you have it. Two very different reading experiences, bound together in the same book. One part numbing. The other part lacerating. Both parts meta. On closing the book, I had to reach for my kids and subject them to a long embrace. To paraphrase another Goodreads reviewer, this book was not what I expected but exactly what I needed. Mood: Satirical Rating: 7/10 Also on Instagram.

Do you ever try and explain an internet reference/meme to someone who isn't chronically online? This book feels like that.

As I anticipated based on vlogs I've watched, I liked the first half more than the second half, but I laughed out loud so many times throughout the book and a lot of quotes resonated with me. It's great commentary on being online and how human brains tend to work through the internet and specifically social media

No One is Talking About This is genre-spanning debut from a formidably talented writer and poet who has stayed somewhat below the radar until now or has only been known for her social media mayhem. Incisive, original and frequently sardonic, this is a meditation on human existence both online and off as well as the juxtaposition of the fleeting impermanence of life and the seemingly limitless, unbounded nature of the internet. The first part of the book introduces an unnamed narrator and protagonist who has found notoriety by creating famous tweets and composing blog posts and has recently been elevated to prominence for such social media posts making a career out of it where she now travels around the world speaking on panels and meeting her adoring fans. The viral post that brought about this desirable lifestyle read — "Can a dog be twins”. She is overwhelmed by navigating the new language and etiquette of what she terms "the portal," where she grapples with an unshakable conviction that a vast chorus of voices is now dictating her thoughts. When existential threats--from climate change and economic precariousness to the rise of an unnamed dictator and an epidemic of loneliness--begin to loom, she posts her way deeper into the portal's void. An avalanche of images, details, and references accumulate to form a landscape that is post-sense, post-irony, post-everything. "Are we in hell?" the people of the portal ask themselves. "Are we all just going to keep doing this until we die?" In the second part, our protagonist is in Vienna, Austria for a conference when her mother pleads with her to come home to Ohio. Discovering that her heavily pregnant younger sister is having significant complications making the likelihood of her needing a late-term abortion high, due to the baby she's carrying suffering from a profound congenital disorder, she makes the long trip back to The United States. This is a captivating, compelling and unique read with some meaningful messages and social commentary with regard to our world today, our increasing use of the internet and the distinct differences that mark life online to off. It very eloquently highlights through Lockwood's utilisation of two separate parts of the book that there are profound differences between reality-based life and that as an internet user. However, the once vastness distinguishing them is now diminishing to where it often is troublesome to know the difference. It's a timely and topical tale with the first section written in short, sharp prose that give the feel of Instagram captions or text messages and the second in equally snappy bursts that feel like stolen moments taken between breaths. This is a book you experience rather than read and I must concede that it is quite unlike anything I have ever encountered before. An always insightful, sometimes irreverent and enticingly moving novel. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll sigh and you'll find many moments where you'll be nodding your head in recognition. I have a funny feeling this is one I'll remember for a long time to come. Highly recommended.

3.5 I have mixed feelings about this book. It was like nothing I read before, usually, that goes into the plus column. The first part is made up of short passages about random things, including some clever observations on society, the way social media has interwoven itself into so many aspects of ours lives, and how it changes the way we behave and interact. So it is clever in that way, sort of. If you don't get the reference you're left scratching your head. The second part is more cohesive, and it makes sense, as it's mostly about the narrator's sister, who becomes pregnant but discovers, too late, that her baby was suffering from a rare genetic disorder, the Proteus syndrome. Going from exaltation to heartbreak and everything in between. Some of the shortcomings: - too contemporary - those who are not immersed in all aspects of social media, those who are not up to date with memes, trends, or whatever Lockwood is mentioning, will miss the point. At least, it still capitalized the first letter at the beginning of a sentence - so, I didn't have to struggle with overcoming my aversion towards that trend. - there are two different books in one. - this book was already dated by the time it came out, because of the nature of the internet and social media. Despite some of its limitations, I'm not sorry I read it. I'll definitely try something else by Lockwood.

Re-read after its shortlisting for the 2020 Booker Prize. Given my observation below that I felt like large parts of the hastily written novel were existing works in progress (or at least fully formed concepts) included in the narrative I was intrigued to see the author's interview in the Guardian the week before the winner announcement where he says "I wanted to go back to writing about short stories, and the fastest way to make that happen seemed to be to take up parts of my life or things I'd always been thinking about and to set them down into fiction" Better to imagine his friends happy than to see their unhappiness up close. And unhappy they certainly would be – that has been the lesson this weekend, hasn’t it? The misery of other people, the persistence of unhappiness, is perhaps all that connects them. Only the prospect of greater unhappiness keeps them within the circumscribed world of graduate school. I read this book due to its longlisting for the 2020 Booker Prize – and it is probably the book on the longlist that has given me the most pause for reflection at this stage. Over 30 years ago I went to University – something that was completely new to me and to any of my working class family and friends. I stayed for a fourth year and was expected to stay for a PhD (if only to keep my brilliant brother company), but I simply could not understand academia (or the idea of being paid for research) and was very keen to get a job in what I thought of as real life. The college at which I studied (I did mathematics) was famous for its high level of science undergraduates – these NatScis (and if I am being honest the whole college including myself) being infamous for being wearing anoraks and being rather pale due to barely leaving their rooms (unless to go to the library). I found therefore this book simultaneously intriguing (as it circles around the wider theme of whether academia is real-life and even what real life means) and on one level alien, as (other than the far more introverted and slightly over-weight narrator) the college research scientists with which he mingles all seem to be tall, healthy, confident athletic types. And it is that split view that proceeds throughout the novel for me: the author’s writing at times is excellent (think Sally Rooney for the ability to capture the agony of young relationships and the way in which they seem so important while in them but superficial when views at a distance - but with much more flowing and captivating prose). At other times I felt whole chunks could and should have been excised (I really could have done with a lot less of the nematodes and together with the over long tennis game I was reminded of Ian McEwan at this most annoying – albeit the nematodes draw on more autobiographical experience than background research). The basis of the book is Wallace, having left his home Southern state (and a difficult upbringing) has taken a place as a graduate student at a mid Western University. Thinking that his homosexuality was effectively incompatible with where he grew up and sensing correctly it would be more acceptable at the college, he is rather blindsided by how little, as the first black student on his programme, he fits in or perhaps more to the point he is allowed to fit in. The book is simply brilliant at describing the covert racism that Wallace faces: a combination of an accumulation of micro-aggressions; condescension; unconscious bias, some “check your privilege” top trumps (in a memorable scene - which I think will be widely quoted - the flabbergasted Wallace finds himself accused of wallowing in his victim status as gay and black when in fact it is he who is a prejudiced misogynist), and perhaps most hurtfully a refusal, even by his closest friends, to really face what is happening to him – particularly when it might lead to conflict or simply to grant that perhaps he should be the one to say if something is racist. And there is the other thing – the shadow pain, he calls it, because he cannot say its real name. Because to say its real name would be to cause trouble, to make waves. To draw attention to it, as though it weren’t in everything already….. The most unfair part of it, Wallace thinks, is that when you tell white people that something is racist, they hold it up to the light and try to discern if you are telling the truth. As if they can tell by the grain if something is racist or not, and they always trust their own judgement. It’s unfair because white people have a vested interest in underestimating racism, its amount, its intensity, its shape, its effects. They are the fox in the henhouse. At one point (which I found particularly interesting given that Brit Bennett’s Vanishing Half was perhaps one of the 2 most surprising omissions from the longlist) Wallace I think draws on Bennett’s famous “Good White People” essay (and note that Brandon Taylor is way too well culturally/zeitgeist connected not to know what he is referencing here). There will always be this moment. There will always be good white people who love him and want the best for him but who are more afraid of other white people than of letting him down. It is easier for them to let it happen and to triage the wound later than to introduce an element of the unknown into the situation. No matter how good they are, no matter how loving, they will always be complicit, a danger, a wound waiting to happen. The action in the book takes place over a single weekend – the last weekend of Summer before Wallace and his friends fourth year of graduate school. Wallace, whose estranged father died a few weeks previously, is unsettled by the apparent sabotage of his experiment and speculates out loud to his friends about the possibility of leaving the program (something which the author actually did - leaving a science PhD to take up writing). Meanwhile the only real outsider in the group (who like me works in finance) raises again his view that the scientists are, in their refusal to leave the world of college, effectively taking refuge from real life. Both of these seem to perturb the fragile equilibrium of the group and a number of tensions come to the fore – including one strained relationship Wallace has with another, self-proclaimed straight, graduate Miller which (not entirely plausibly) turns into a rather violent affair. In the rather intense atmosphere the group of acquaintances: struggle to understand each other; get frustrated that they are not being understood; share in confidence, betray and then fail to react appropriately to secrets; get a glimpse of others unhappiness but only really through the lens of their own preoccupations. And Wallace’s quiet observations on this process are the novel’s real strengths: [this] is why he does not trust memory. Memory sifts. Memory lifts. Memory makes due with what it is given. Memory is not about facts. Memory is an inconsistent measurement of the pain in one’s life. He smiled because he was not sure how to meet someone’s sympathy for him. It always seemed to him that when people were sad for you, they were sad for themselves, as if your misfortune were just an excuse for them to feel what it was they wanted to feel. Sympathy was a kind of ventriloquism .... ‘Thank you,’ he said, because what else did one say when caught in the confines of someone else’s sympathy? Cruelty, Wallace thinks, is really just the conduit of pain. It conveys pain from one place to another – from the place of highest concentration to the place of lowest concentration, in the same way heat flows. It is a delivery system, as in the way that certain viruses convey illness, disease, irreparable harm. They’re all infected with pain, hurting each other. … pressure, the awful pressure of having to hold on to time for oneself. This is perhaps why people get together in the first place. The sharing of time. The sharing of the responsibility of anchoring oneself in the world. Life is less terrible when you can just rest for a moment, put everything down and wait without having to worry about being washed away. People take each other’s hands and they hold on as tight as they can, they hold on to each other and to themselves, and when they let go, they can because they know that the other person will not. The book was apparently written in 5 weeks – which I find: - remarkable for the control and insight shown in the writing; - fascinating for the contrast with much of the rest of the shortlist (books such as “Shuggie Bain”, "Burnt Sugar" and “Shadow King” took the best part of a decade to write); - a likely explanation for some of the more anomalous parts of the novel – I cannot help wonder if the tennis game, the copious description of the biological work (both of which are considerably too long for the brief metaphorical elements they bring to the novel), possibly the dinner party scene and particularly the flashback to Wallace’s childhood (poetically and memorably written but which implausibly is apparently told in a night time conversation) were all existing works in progress (or at least fully formed concepts) which were included in the novel. But nevertheless on balance this is a strong novel – and for a young, debut author shows a remarkable ability to convey the very realistic life issue of latent racism.

Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2020 Taylor's debut novel is strong when it focuses on the subtle dynamics of social interactions, when it conveys what it means to live in a white world as a black, homosexual man. Wallace, the protagonist, grew up in Alabama and is now enrolled in a graduate program for biochemistry in the Midwest - the only black student in his year. He falls for his white friend Miller who presents as straight and/or isn't sure whether he is gay. They start a relationship on the low, but, much like Wallace's interactions with his other friends, it is again and again troubled by reactions and behaviors Wallace has to deal with because he is black, and by his inhibitions fuelled by experiences. One main focus is on the fact that the people who do not speak up, who do not take his side but tell themselves that they carry no responsibilty are as much the problem as those who discriminate against Wallace. The author himself is black, queer, from Alabama and studied science in the Midwest, so in a way, this novel discusses real experiences in a fictional format. While there is loud, obvious racism, it's the quieter kind that unfolds in everyday conversations that underlines what Wallace is up against, how deeply ingrained racism is in the structures he has to inhabit and in the heads of people he has to deal with - and how hard it is to react without becoming the person who ends up being blamed. Taylor makes his readers feel the desperation and claustrophobia that comes with it, and thus gives us a new rendition of the genre of the campus novel. Spanning over just a few pivotal days and interspersed with recollections of childhood trauma, the text packs a real emotional punch. But please, dear authors: When you write a German into a novel, don't make them a chiffre and name them Klaus - it will be extremely hard to find a guy in the year and age group Taylor depicts who is actually named Klaus. It just seems like Taylor carelessly slapped a random name that appeared to be typically German on the character, which reveals a serious amount of cluelessness. This is a book about the struggle for dignity and to find a place for oneself, and how these strifes are made even harder through the effects of trauma and systemic injustice. A fascinating read that requires close attention. You can learn more about the book in our latest podcast episode (in German, as the German translation of the novel is available now!).

It’s funny how sometimes what feels just like an ordinary and meaningless situation becomes engraved in my memory in a way that I know, on the spot, that I’m never going to forget it. I’m not sure if this happens to everyone or if it’s just something related to another one of my weird personality traits. What I do know for sure though, is that every time I get to one of those situations, I always feel like I’m floating outside my body watching the whole thing going on. And then, afterwards, I just know that my mind is going to play that same scene over and over again at the most random times. Let me just quickly tell you about this really bad morning at work a few months ago when, surely because it was obvious how much fun I was having just from the look on my face, a colleague asked me if I was okay, if everything was alright. Not even bothering to lie, I actually answered that I had had enough already and just wanted to go home. And she was like, awww, I’m sorry you’re missing your country so much. And I, at this point, already in out-of-body experience mode, kind of laughed and said that I wasn’t that desperate and actually only meant "home" as going back to bed. Funny, isn’t it? My country?! God, I don’t even own a house. Real Life is also packed with this type of "sweet" little stories. It’s a sneaky and claustrophobic novel that caught me completely off guard and constantly punched me with its uncomfortable truths. What happens within its pages is never pretty. It’s all about situations that (most) people don’t want to talk about, be confronted with and even less so, to admit that they could possibly relate to! For me, this was a wonderful character study, and even though some of the side characters didn’t quite come to life, Wallace, the main character, was completely fleshed out and I believe that was actually what the author intended for a story happening over such a short timeframe. Wallace is not what the majority of people would call a likeable character but I, probably because I’m so broken myself, really felt for him. In my opinion, this is not a perfect novel. Gosh, is there such a thing as a perfect novel anyway?! I thought the writing was lovely, even though a bit too flowery at times, but overall, and considering this was a debut, I think it all worked very well and most of the descriptions (weather and landscapes, etc) were a wonderful way to take us deeper into the characters’ minds. Here’s an example: Wallace looks out over the grey shifting water and at the undulating darkness below its surface. The peninsula is in the distance, and he can see just around its bend, the water already gleaming. The row of dark hedges that comprise its body flutter as if they were a murmuration of birds, a mass action cascading . Could you sense the melancholy and the longing? The last fifty pages really got my heart racing, and I’d like to take my hat off to Mr. Taylor for having the courage to go “knees deep” in topics as disgusting as racism and homophobia can be and throw them right onto the readers’ faces. Unfortunately though, I think that the people who really need to read this novel the most will never even get close to it. They’re always too busy making other people’s lives a nightmare. Real life, you know…

update: i loved it so i will be allowed to continue reading how is this novel a debut? some of the most beautiful writing ever. join me & emma for a discussion on: https://www.instagram.com/dinnerparty... ! ⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻ pre-read if i hate this book i will quit reading i am so sure i am going to love it.

There is much to admire about this novel, not the least of which is the fact that Brandon Taylor fearlessly embraces the idea that there is no easy solution to the messiness of the effects of grief and trauma on a person. His ability to lean into and plumb the psyche of his gifted, wounded, fiercely intelligent, deeply introverted protagonist, is very impressive. There are times when he’s a bit less successful at exploring the messiness of interpersonal relationships, particularly in a couple of group encounters that begin to strain credulity with their depictions of the borderline savage verbal behavior on display. Also less successful is a flip from third-person to first-person narration for one crucial chapter; I was confused by the choice to couch the first-person language in such extremely poetic and florid sentences, when a simple, direct, authentic monologue would have been much more effective. Nonetheless, I was always captivated as i was reading this novel, and I was often wonderfully surprised by the mercurial nature of Wallace, the main character, as he struggles to find his way in what is very convincingly drawn as the complex, fraught environment in which he finds himself. Brandon Taylor is definitely a writer I will follow to see what he does next.

I found this novel to be so masterfully written, a real five-star read, and yet at the same time I found the experience of reading it so bleak and airless that I can't quite love it. It is a perfect book in so many ways. It's a very subtle and beautifully written book. It takes the facts of systemic racism and shows how these facts manifests themselves in the everyday life of a hyper-intelligent, sensitive, gay black man. Wallace is trying to survive in a graduate program as the only black student, surrounded by equally hyper-intelligent white people, who all congratulate themselves for being enlightened about race, when they are, in fact, blindly racist and awful. But there is no hint of easy polemical in the novel...because now and then a character comes along who is not so bad to Wallace, after all...only Wallace can't tell the difference; because he's too damaged from his need to protect himself, in a world so full of prejudice and hostile presumption. So while I can't quite love it, I still think it's a wonderful, important book. We have great, great novels about overt racism. This is something different. This is something subtle and true.

Given what I had heard of this novel, I really didn't expect to like it as much as I did. In fact, I almost didn't want to read it. So what led me to buy and then consume this as quickly as I did? I'm not exactly sure, but I'm glad I did. It's a curious novel, and its story takes place over the course of a single weekend. Wallace is a biochemistry student. He's the only Black student in his faculty. Among his friends, he's the only Black person there too. He's also gay. Being Black and gay in mostly white spaces is not easy to navigate, and Brandon Taylor makes that explicitly clear. There is the obvious racism, but even more so are the microaggressions that Taylor lays out quite convincingly. Wallace's white friends don't get why certain things are offensive; most times they don't even give the impression that they care. They are typically self-obsessed and, quite frankly, awful. The dialogue sometimes is a bit stilted, but I was most impressed with Taylor's storytelling. He writes with specificity and a surefootedness that most debut novels lack. Wallace is a character that has experienced quite a bit of trauma growing up. Taylor presents this matter-of-factly; he has no time for sensationalism. There's this one chapter that's almost like stream-of-consciousness, where all Wallace's trauma is detailed. It is shocking but also written flawlessly. My heart broke. His involvement with Miller who identifies as straight is questionable, but you know what? I got it. I haven't read Shuggie Bain yet, but I must be in for a treat if the Booker panel thought it was better than this. An excellent first novel.

Shortlisted for the 2020 Booker Prize. This novel feels like Taylor has captured a period of the protagonist’s life and stored it upon one of the slides that Wallace, the protagonist, uses in the laboratory where he works. A short period in time in which Wallace experiences and battles through all the problems that you would expect to confront a young black gay man living in a mid-west university town working on completing his biochemistry degree. Having grown up in the deep south it will come as no surprise that Wallace, even with his close group of friends, feels like a fish out of water. However, as the novel progresses, we find that Wallace masks his feelings and is struggling enormously just to get by and is edging closer to a breakdown every day. Much of the novel revolves around Wallace’s relationship with Miller. Miller, who is white, confused about his own sexuality, and has a terrible violent streak, which feels like it is going to explode forth every minute he is with Wallace. My blood pressure soared while reading the passages with Wallace and Miller. Whether they were having sex, fighting, or simply talking, there is a feeling of repressed violence always emanating from Miller. A violence that he barely keeps controlled. The book’s focus is on these two characters, both flawed, both damaged, and both, particularly in Miller’s case, dangerous. Taylor does a wonderful job of taking the reader into Wallace’s world. Everything that happens over the weekend seems to be, in Wallace’s mind, his fault. Are his problems as bad as he thinks? Is he really the victim of racial prejudice? It is not an easy read being inside Wallace’s head, and this is exactly how Taylor has intended it to be. Problems and grievances over the weekend always feel, from Wallace’s perspective, to start or initiate with him. It is alarming to find the numerous subtle acts of racism. Acts enacted, that at times feel like the perpetrator is blissfully unaware of even having been racially offensive. Alarming as well, when Wallace just seems to believe that confrontation is simply not worth the effort. A way of life that has become so ingrained that the possibility of change seems irreversible. At times you almost feel yourself drowning along with Wallace. At work he is labelled a misogynist and his boss indirectly tells him that he is not fitting in with his colleagues, and perhaps he should consider leaving, all the while he has done nothing wrong, and yet again his thoughts circle around and he eventually feels that it must be his fault. This novel catapulted me out of my comfort zone. For the whole time I was reading it I felt confused, depressed, lonely, angry, and hurt. And I am certain that this is exactly what Taylor intends. The title could not be more apt. The problem , as this novel reveals, is that “real lives” for the minorities of this world many times equate to depressing lives, substandard lives, lives that could be improved and enriched if we all just tried a little harder, were a little kinder, and less inclined to judge. Nobody in life gets a free pass, we are all fighting our own battles and wars. Wouldn’t it be lovely if we all helped each other, regardless of race, sexuality, and class. Novels such as this are a wonderful way of helping us to feel and understand what it is like to spend time residing in another human beings mind. It is, I feel, the only medium that can truly allow this to happen. It takes a skillful writer to pull this off, and Taylor's writing is marvelous and immersive. A wonderful debut. 4 Stars!

Looking out at life as a fish does, caught in captivity in a tank, afraid of what might happen if we let ourselves go wild: it's scary, but is it worth it? Brandon Taylor in "Real Life" asks just this question: how do we escape from our own self-imposed, and others-imposed, internal prisons in order to live? "Real Life" tells the story of Wallace, a gay, black man in graduate school at University of Wisconsin, Madison. Constantly confronted by racist lab mates and professors, white friends who won't speak up when he is being attacked, and a past that won't seem to let go its grips on him, Wallace struggles to find his place in a whitewashed world that doesn't seem to have any space for him. As he falls in love with one of his friends and struggles to open himself up to vulnerability, Wallace's story is left open-ended. Not since "A Little Life" have I found a cast of characters I despised as much as those that fill the pages of "Real Life." Though the characters certainly have sympathetic moments, each of them is perverted by their own individual forms of selfishness - even Wallace, the protagonist who is himself most often the focal point for empathy and sympathy. But it is this character issue that drives the book forward and makes you relate so deeply: this book turns a mirror to you, the reader, and reveals how your own selfishnesses are rooted in insecurities that keep you contained, safe, and held back from real life.

3.5 rounded up

3.5 stars. This book is so steeped in loneliness that you cannot help but feel lonely when you read it. It infuses every word on every page and it seeps into you as you read. There are many emotions in this book, but all of them except for loneliness are held by Wallace at arms length, through a fog, through the fog of anhedonia, numbness, and stagnation. It's also through the fog of trauma and loss. The book begins a few weeks after the death of Wallace's father, something Wallace hasn't revealed to anyone. Saying it happened would mean people would express condolences and sympathy, people would push their emotions on to him, and that is the last thing Wallace wants because it might mean he has to consider his own feelings and that is something he definitely doesn't want to do. Wallace is the only Black person at a midwestern university's graduate biosciences program. He grew up poor in rural Alabama and that he is where he is at all is a kind of miracle. His group of friends are the people he started with, a band who are mostly white and mostly men. Wallace does not exactly like his friends, but they are all he has. Similarly, he does not exactly like his work, but it is all he has. He knows no other way than what he has, what he spent so long working for, what he escaped to. The struggle of getting as far as he has, the struggle of keeping up with each day has left him feeling so empty that he is incapable of making choices, of finding happiness. There is more wrapped up here, particularly around Wallace's disgust with his own body and his constant encounters with microaggressions from friends and coworkers, leaving him with no one he can really trust to look out for him, even if everyone says they want him around and want him to succeed. He lives in a world where everyone assumes that he is okay, that he has always been okay, and that he has the resources to continue to be okay, but that has never been true for Wallace and he is unable to admit or express it. It is unsurprising that this novel gets the dynamics and specifics of graduate level lab work perfectly (Taylor spent time pursuing a PhD in Biochemistry) but it's rare that you encounter novelists who really know science and the culture of a lab, the grueling menial work it takes. There's also a lot of great sex writing, which is one of the highest compliments I can give. This is so emotionally resonant and deep, for me it's 3.5 stars just because it's the kind of prose that I get a little lost in. The characters and interaction, especially the group dialogue scenes, were stunningly perfect. It's that because I am me, the reader I am, I had trouble staying connected to the prose when it wasn't in the middle of physical or emotional action. I suspect people who are big lit fic readers will not have this problem.

Read my thoughts in the Irish Times: https://www.irishtimes.com/culture/bo...

A really thoughtful and moving look at the racial prejudices and microaggressions rife even in the liberal circles of academic science. Taylor's protagonist is a young, queer black man doing a PhD in science at a Midwestern university. The book takes us through a weekend, during which he finds himself constantly holding himself back to try not to alienate his friends and colleagues. Things bubble up in a few striking scenes, but the book's main focus is his interiority, which is beautifully drawn.

hmm as a depressed black queer living in an inhospitable midsized midwestern city i was not in the right mental place for this read but it was gorgeous and brutal and i am very sad and this book is very good

Yes, that was great, even though at times it was as frustrating as “A Little Life”.

The title of this book embodies it so well. Highlighted lots of good one/two/three liners in here. Moral of the story: grad school is hell, white people are irritating, and there is no escaping the mundanity and continuity and violence of life.

I am so happy to see the Booker long list make room for newer voices like Taylor’s. This story of a young, gay, Black man who escapes a family and community in rural Alabama where he doesn’t fit in, only to find himself in a mostly white, Biochemistry graduate program, where he also doesn’t quite fit, certainly deserves its spot on the list. Readers are pulled so deeply into Wallace’s depression and anxiety, that it makes for some heavy reading, but also gives us just a taste of what it might feel like to be him.

A lot of the times I'll read literary fiction that proves unbearably irritating because it is so intent on blowing every single one of its moments out of proportion: every word of dialogue, every glance, every movement becomes imbued with monumental implications, the author somehow gleaning paragraphs and paragraphs' worth of information out of a moment that seems, to put it simply, Not That Deep. Oftentimes this kind of attempt to make a novel brim with meaning backfires and instead makes it painfully caught up in its own forced significance. Real Life is a novel that resists all the trappings of this attempt at artificial meaning-making, a novel that in fact pays the right amount of attention to the minute. "Off to the side, a man is eating something from a cardboard bowl. He has the sort of lean face in which the muscles of his jaws are visible as they work. Wallace watches the muscles slide and shift beneath the man's skin, which is olive colored. There is also the thickening muscle in his neck as he swallows, the food passing down and down through his throat and into the darkness of his body. This is an ordinary act, so commonplace as to seem invisible, but when any such act is considered, there is a wild strangeness to it. Consider how the eyelid slides down over the eyeball and back, the world cast into an instant of darkness with every blink. Consider the act of breathing, which comes regularly and without effort--and yet the great surge of air that must enter and exit the body is an almost violent event, tissues pushed and compressed and slid apart and opened and closed, so much blood all over the whole business of it. Ordinary acts take on strange shadows when viewed up close." To me, that last line is almost the thesis of the whole novel: "Ordinary acts take on strange shadows when viewed up close." This statement takes on different inflections throughout the novel, depending on the context in which it becomes salient: relationships with friends, with romantic and/or sexual partners, with classmates, with professors and advisors. Taylor exerts such a careful control on his writing in this novel that despite their ostensible ordinariness, acts are rendered in substantial and yet not unnecessary detail; these acts matter not just (and not always) because they represent some huge, monumental thing, but also because of the fact that they are, in the end, still ordinary. I am thinking especially of the ways in which Real Life pays attention to the pervasiveness of the microaggressions that Wallace, as a Black man, has to experience in his almost exclusively white campus. Taylor depicts an environment in which microaggressions proliferate and fester, creating a milieu that is suffocating in its insistence to let them go unchecked and indeed actively unacknowledged. Microaggressions, here, operate as a kind of act that seems ordinary to those who are not on the receiving end of them, those who were never meant to be the targets of these microaggressions to begin with. "And there is the other thing--the shadow pain, he calls it, because he cannot say its real name. Because to say its real name would be to cause trouble, to make waves. To draw attention to it, as though it weren't in everything already." Again there is this idea of a "shadow" that lies beneath what is on the surface of an interaction. If "ordinary acts take on strange shadows when viewed up close," then microaggressions are ordinary acts whose marginalizing effects stem from them being and staying in those shadows. Microaggressions are significant precisely because they are ordinary, because they are, as Wallace says, "in everything." They are also the acts that those who don't experience them refuse to acknowledge. Put another way, the ordinary is important not just because it represents something bigger, in this case implicit racism, but also precisely because it is ordinary, because that implicit racism takes shape and thrives in commonplace occurrences. And this is not to mention that all of this is coming from people who are supposed to be Wallace's friends. Needless to say, these microaggressions (and in some cases overt racism) take their toll on Wallace, leaving him exhausted, frustrated, or else resigned to their inevitability. Taylor builds this kind of environment so intricately and precisely, laying one brick atop another until in the end you're faced with the sheer overwhelming height of an inherently racist structure. It infuriated me on behalf of Wallace; I honestly don't remember the last time a novel angered me this much. I also think it's important to underline the fact that Wallace is more than the marginalization he faces; things don't just happen to him. He's a fascinating, instropective, relatable and yet oftentimes entirely elusive character. He's always so alert to his world, attuned to the lines of connection (or tension) that thrum within his friend group. I have so much else to say, but I'm going to stop here, as I think I've written plenty already. That being said, Real Life is a novel that explores so many more topics with tact and insight: sexual abuse, trauma, sex, grad school--I've only touched the tip of the iceberg here. More broadly, it's a novel that intricately and deftly examines the textures of relationships and interactions, the ways in which they often operate as a push and pull. I loved this one so much.

Booker Prize Longlisted 2020 Real Life is quite an emotionally charged novel dealing with inner struggles of a black gay graduate school student with childhood trauma in the mostly-white mid western USA. The book has the intensity of emotions like Virginia Woolf's To the Lighthouse as mentioned in this novel for a couple of times and the structure mirrors the book inversely; the middle section goes back to the dark stormy past instead of the future ("Time Passes"). All the characters are vividly featured and the white privilege/ racism are thoroughly explored. The situation in a lab at a post-secondary institution is quite real and keenly observed. It will be a great material of a stage play with very realistic or plausible conversations. The timeframe of the novel is from Friday evening to Monday morning, which is well executed. In addition, the physicality of the gay relationship between Wallace and white guy in-the-closet Miller is really intense and multi-layered.

I had the pleasure to put some questions to the author as part of the BBC Radio 4 Front Row Booker Book Group (the third year of three I have appeared - previously with Salman Rushdie and Tsitsi Dangarembga) https://www.bbc.co.uk/sounds/play/p0b... -------------------------------------------------------------------- Re-read after its shortlisting for the 2021 Booker Prize - for which it is in my view the most literary book on the list. This is a philosophical novel yet one which is very readable if approached at an appropriately thoughtful manner and slow speed. It is one which places us deep in the mind of a third party character and which largely (and deliberately) eschews each of: a) Action - this is a novel of the interior not the exterior. The first section largely takes place on a coastal road walk, the second on a long and solitary train journey, the third on walk towards a cremation - but all really are located in the narrator's head; b) Classical Character Development - replaced instead by introspective reflection; c) Spoken Dialogue. The book is more interested in reflecting on conversations – in you might say their legacy – than in the immediate experience of them – which actually matches the book’s treatment of its core subject. The author has also effectively said that reported speech has greater fidelity anyway given he is often writing Tamil dialogue in English. It is one that could not be described as autobiographical - but one where it is clear that the author has projected many of his own ambiguities and obsessions onto his third party character as well as one as well as one where sometimes as a reader one feels that the author has (not entirely satisfactorily) rather bypassed his character to include his own research for the book directly. The author is a Sri Lankan Tamil who grew up in the capital Colombo, rather distant from the direct fighting in the Civil War. He wrote the book in the US while studying for a PhD in Philosophy at Colombia University. Interestingly given my comment about this being a philosophical novel he has argued that the Western study of Philosophy is rather abstracted and formal and divorced from an “introspective or essayistic” approach and instead he was more inspired by Robert Musil and “A Man Without Qualities” and the idea of using fiction to “place philosophical questioning and response in a kind of living, bodily situation.” He has said that he is “obsessed” with the Sri Lankan Civil War and particularly its legacy as the Tamil diaspora came to terms with the allegations of the government atrocities which led up to the defeat of the Tamil Tigers – and all his novels have addressed this in some way. This book, compared to his other writing, is both a more oblique treatment of the war itself which remains in the background, but also a more direct treatment of the war’s legacy both for those involved and for those, like the author and his narrator, whose involvement was after the event. He wondered brought him to this place so far removed from the world he knew, what forces had led him to leave the life he'd created for himself in India, to come to this place he'd never actually lived, this place that had hardly figured in his life growing up. He wondered what movements of fate had led to his seemingly accidental encounter with Rani in the hospital ward, to her arrival in their home just a few months later, to her unexpected death two days before and his attendance now at her cremation, unable to shake off the sense that his presence in this scene of desolation had been decided somewhere long before, that something inside him had been driving him toward it long be-fore the end of the war, something more than just guilt, some-thing like freedom, even if he could not say what exactly freedom was. The book’s third party character Krishnan is also a Sri Lankan Tamil – again with a family base in Colombo (where he lost his father to a bomb attack but is otherwise relatively unaware of the details of the conflict in the North): who also went abroad to study – in this case Political Science in Delhi. There the shock end to the war and the subsequent Channel 4 “Killing Fields in Sri Lanka” documentary (https://www.channel4.com/programmes/s...) opens his eyes and he becomes obsessed with researching and mentally recording the war. In Delhi he later met and fell in love with an Indian activist Anjum and is challenged by her devotion to women and labour cause activism – and when she makes it clear that she is focused on her causes more than him and signal the end of their relationship, he decides to quit his studies and return to Sri Lanka – working with a small NGO working in the North East with those affected by the war. Later he returns to Colombo with a better-funded, more desk-based overseas NGO, living with his mother and ageing Appamma (Grandmother). After the latter has a number of falls Krishnan arranges for someone he met in his work – Rani, a Northern based Tamil lady who traumatised by the loss of her two sons (one in combat, one killed by shrapnel), is undergoing electric-shock therapy – to be his grandmother’s carer. The book itself takes place over a couple of days: after a number of years of silence Krishnan receives an email from Anjum; on the same day he gets a call to say that Rani (who some time since returned to her family in the North) has died after an apparently accidental fall into a well. After a reflective walk, he decides to travel to the funeral to represent his family; and on the lengthy train journey and then at the funeral reflects on the events of his life. He couldn’t help thinking, as the train hurtled closer toward his destination, that he’d traversed not any physical distance that day but rather some vast psychic distance inside him, that he’d been advancing not from the island’s south to its north but from the south of his mind to its own distant northern reaches. The author has talked about the different ways of remembering the war – and his contribution being via his novels and this idea comes up also in the book People would remain who insisted on remembering, some of them activists, artists and archivists who’d consciously chosen to do so but most of them ordinary people who had not other choice … who, in the most basic sense, simply couldn’t accept a world without what’d they’d lost, people who’d lost the ability to participate in the present and were this compelled to live out the rest of their lives in their memories and imaginations, to build in their minds, like the temple constructed by Poosal, the monuments and memorials they could not build in the world outside. In this quote I would say that: Anjum is the activist (as are those, in a Tamil context, who take part in protests around the world); the author is the artist; Krishnan a mental archivist who tries to move towards activism; Rani the lost person without choice. And this quote also includes one of the most interesting and allegorical aspects of the novel – the Sri Tamil legend of Poosal (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pusalar) and the idea of building a “castle in the mind” – something that Krishnan realises he was doing himself with his post-documentary, pre-Anjum reaction to the end of the war and which much more poignantly he realises Rani is doing. This is a book of very deliberate juxtapositions of two concepts and then an examination of them together. These include: 1) The inexorable passage of time and the intensity of the present moment – this is key to the novel’s opening; 2) Desire and yearning – this is key to the novel as shown in its ending; 3) The past and the present ; 4) Absence and longing; 5) Activism and academia; 6) Action and introspection; 7) Agency and obsession; 8) Gaze and touch; 9) Sleep and Waking; 10) Travel and Exile. A repeating (and all the more notable for being slightly unusual even at time discordant) image is of not just vision and sight – the author has even said that “Visions” was a working title for the book – but also the physical elements of eyes themselves. It was only when looking at a horizon that one’s eyes could move past all the obstacles that limited one’s vision to the present situation, that one’s eyes could range without limit to other times and other places, and perhaps this was all that freedom was, nothing more than the ability of the ciliary muscles in each eye—the finely calibrated muscles that contracted when focusing on objects close by and relaxed when focusing on objects far away—nothing more than the ability of these muscles to loosen and relax at will, allowing the things that existed in the distance, far beyond the place one actually was, to seem somehow within reach. And maybe it was for this reason, it had occurred to him at that moment, that eyesight weakened with the passing of the years, not because of old age or disease, not because of the deterioration of the cornea or the lenses or the finely tuned muscles that controlled them but because, rather, of the accumulation of a few such images over the course of one’s brief sojourn on earth, images of great beauty that pierced the eyes and superimposed themselves over everything one saw afterward, making it harder over time to see and pay attention to the outside world, though perhaps, it occurred to him now, four years later in the country of his birth, walking at the back of the procession bearing Rani’s body for cremation, Rani who’d seen so much that she would never been able to forget, perhaps he’d been naïve back then, perhaps it was not just images of beauty that clouded one’s vision over time but images of violence too, those moments of violence that for some people were just as much a part of life as the moments of beauty, both kinds of image appearing when we least expected it and both continuing to haunt us thereafter, both of which marked and branded us, limiting how far we were subsequently able to see. And this is most striking and shocking in the true story of the arrest, death sentence and then prison riot murder of the Tamil militant Kuttimani (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Selvara...) – his wish for his eyes and their eventual fate. We also have the glances shared between two Black Tigers in the documentary from which this excerpt is taken https://www.pbs.org/video/frontlinewo... - a documentary which forms a key juncture in the development of Anjum and Krishnan’s relationship There were I felt some false notes with the book. The book was I felt very much at its strongest and most original when looking at the Sri Lankan conflict, or discussing how Anjum’s activism challenges Krishan: when on more conventional matters – in particular the period when Krishan and Anjum have sex for the first time and then the early stages of their relationship, I felt the philosophising style felt rather cliched – like a Alain de Botton derivative. Some of the areas recounted are reproduced in detail which is simply unnatural such as Krishan’s tale of Kuttimani – supposedly remembered by Krishan while he smokes a cigarette on a train but runs to 12 or so pages, with exact dates and so on (although even then it misses a completely crucial detail that explains why the prison officials allegedly permitted and possibly even facilitated the riots – that his death sentence had been commuted to life imprisonment). The second section in particular is weakened by being dominated by these two elements - however the first and third sections were both I felt exceptional and overall this was a very welcome addition to the longlist which thoroughly deserved its shortlisting and would not be an undeserving winner. My thanks to Granta for an ARC via NetGalley

Shortlisted for the 2021 Booker. The novel opens with our protagonist, Krishan, excited by an email from his ex-girlfriend Anjum, who he still loves. It is the first communication she has made to him since their breakup. She wants to know all about what his life is like now that he has returned to Sri Lanka, he had been studying in India. His excitement and anticipation to read the email are broken though by a phone call from the daughter of his grandmother’s carer, Rani, informing him that Rani had fallen down a well in the night and broken her neck. Rani was Krishan’s grandmother’s nurse and carer for two years and yet she was so much more. Krishan’s grandmother lives in a room upstairs, too feeble now to make trips downstairs. Arudpragasam describes beautifully what it must feel like to age slowly, and equally slowly lose many abilities along the way. As the body becomes weaker, and afflictions such as arthritis sets in, we lose the ability to do the things we love. With Krishan’s grandmother one day she realizes that it is too tiring and painful to pursue her passion of gardening. Then the steps to her room upstairs become an obstacle too difficult to traverse. This is where Rani came in. Over two years Rani had taken care of Krishan’s grandmother. Over these two years Rani had become much more than a nurse and carer. A strong bond had developed between the women, a genuine friendship flowering into existence. Rani had lost two sons to the war, traumatic flashbacks and nightmares of her youngest son’s death a nightly ritual. Appamma helped her with her grief. A grief that could never truly be assuaged. Both women needed each other, helping make the days bearable. Rani was receiving electric-shock treatment for her depression and grief, and over time the treatments were increased. As the treatments increased Rani became befuddled easily and had trouble with memory loss. Was this the cause of her tragic fall into the well? Or possibly, with her grief and sorrow deepening, did Rani take her own life? Rani’s funeral is in the north-east. Krishan must make passage north to attend. While travelling north Krishan does not just cross physical distance, but psychic distance, as he finds himself conflicted, close to obsessing about the atrocities that were committed by the government troops, civilians killed, hospitals attacked in the civil war. Endlessly pondering on how different his life was, studying, while an entire culture was being displaced. He pores over news sites on the internet, discovering everything he can about the war and the crimes committed. The countless anonymous lives lost, and how different his life could have been. He also ruminates about Anjum, his ex-girlfriend, and what it is like to be so deeply in love with somebody. To love somebody with your soul, and to constantly fear and agonize that that love is not reciprocated. Anjum is a political activist and Krishan comes to realize that this role consumes every fibre of her being. This novel is beautifully, sensually written. The feelings of desire, love, anxiety conveyed with a masterful deft touch. There is also history, and the documentary film that Krishan and Anjum watch about the “Black Tigers” is most interesting. The Black tigers were an elite unit in the Tamil army and each of them knew that they were going to die in whatever attack they had planned. Two women are the focus of the documentary and there is a calmness, almost a feeling of liberation knowing that they are going to die, if not from enemy fire, then from the cyanide capsules they all carry. So, to sum up, the book is predominantly about Krishan and his thoughts, about Anjum, about Rani, about the war, and his life. Pondering and reminiscing about what his life may have been like under different circumstances. He also feels guilt, being a Tamil himself. Guilt about all of those who died and were tortured in such a vicious war, guilt about the displacement of so many. The horror to survive a war and then die in a leaky fishing boat crossing a vast ocean. Even those who did survive, now living in horrible conditions, their home wiped from existence. Beautifully written and an enjoyable read.

4.5 Shortlisted for the 2021 Man Booker Award I read this last week while on holiday in the Adirondack Mountains. The serenity of the place lent itself well to reading this finely crafted, slow-paced, meditative novel that examines the impact of trauma and the search for meaning in the aftermath of war. The story takes place two years after the Sri Lankan Civil War (1983-2009). ) At the novel's outset, Krishan, a Tamil, who works for an NGO in Columbo, suddenly receives a call that his grandmother's caregiver, Rani, has fallen into a well and broken her neck while visiting her family in the north. Krishan decides to travel north by train to attend her funeral. He reflects on his life, his broken love relationship, and Rani's death during the ride north. Krishan ruminates on the shift in his life's trajectory. As a graduate student in Delhi, he met and fell in love with an Indian activist. Her passion and a sense of purpose made him question his academic existence. Propelled by survivor's guilt and a deep affinity for the Tamil people, he decided to abandon his studies and return to Sri Lanka to help the war survivors. Rani was a war survivor under psychiatric care who suffered from depression and experienced PTSD. She lost both her sons in the war. Rani's oldest died in battle, and she saw her 12-year-old son killed in front of her as they fled from the Sinhalese. Krishan brought Rani into his mother's home to help care for his grandmother after her stroke. He hoped that the relationship would be therapeutic for them both. It worked well for close to two years, and yet at times, Rani's depression would overtake her. So then, in addition to medication, her psychiatrist would provide shock treatment, a practice with which Krishan disagreed. He wondered if Rani's death was an accident or suicide. Arudupragasam intersperses passages from Tamil folklore literature and eastern religious philosophy throughout Krishan's meditations, adding depth and local flavor to the narrative. He vividly describes Rani's Hindu funeral ceremony and creates a sense of continuity against a backdrop of suffering and loss. The book moved me. The characters were well-drawn, and despite the suffering and loss, Krishan's insights, decency, and commitment provided hope for a better future.

An introspective sojourn tracing the protagonist's metamorphosis and his coming to terms with the pivotal events of his life, the causes and consequences of his decisions. Arudpragasam explores the spectrum of emotions through the philosophical vein he adopts, reifying abstractions and lyrically evoking the imperceptible changes, that one is always oblivious of, except from the vantage point of time and experience. The transmutation of the self, the intensely subjective desire and yearning, are attuned to the kaleidoscopic range of situations - the concatenation of place and chance, the impingement of political realities on the psyche supposedly ensconced in the private sphere, and the subterranean arc of destiny that defines these unique configurations. Listening to the sounds of the waves breaking gently against the rocks, the birds flapping their wings against the push of the warm breeze, he gradually became less restive, the present ceasing to be a void and becoming instead, for a short period of time, a place he could inhabit comfortably and securely.

On the surface it's easy to summarize what happens in “A Passage North”. Krishan, a young man who has returned to live and work in his native country of Sri Lanka after the recent Civil War, travels to the war-torn Northern Province to pay respects at the funeral of Rani, his grandmother's former care-giver who died suddenly. This journey comprises the bulk of the action in this story. Readers who prefer a novel with a lot of plot-driven physical drama won't find it in this novel. The power of this book and the complexity of its tale comes from Krishan's meditative process. He was absent from the genocide which resulted in the death of many thousands of fellow Tamils. Though his father was a casualty of one of the Tiger bombings in Colombo, he didn't directly witness or feel the effects of this calamity. However, Rani was a witness to these horrific events and experienced tragic losses which left her severely traumatized. The question for Krishan is how to reconcile what he knows with what he has not directly seen and what steps should be taken to positively contribute to his country which has been ravaged by war. While he is contending with this enormous issue he's also simply a young guy who likes to hang out with his friends and smoke. He spends long periods of time wandering while staring out at the horizon and pines for his lover Anjum who's become a committed activist. Through the course of this novel we get a poignant sense of his state of being at a significant crossroad in life. The author is a student of philosophy and this is heavily reflected in the narrative which meaningfully considers a number of dilemmas to do with the nature of life, time and reality. This is clear from the opening page which begins with the question of inhabiting the present moment. His meditative process offers a moving and new perspective on a number of issues. For instance, the world now witnesses significant conflicts online through first-hand footage shared by individuals embroiled in the action. However Krishan is cautious about granting these images legitimacy: “his initial reluctance to acknowledge the magnitude of what had happened at the end of the war, as though he'd been hesitant to believe the evidence on his computer screen because his own poor, violated, stateless people were the ones alleging it, as though he'd been unable to take the suffering of his own people seriously till it was validated by the authority of a panel of foreign experts, legitimized by a documentary narrated by a clean-shaven white man standing in front of a camera in suit and tie.” The question of authority is now a difficult one as we're wary of being manipulated, but also want to empower the real experience of individuals and resist being swayed by subliminal racial biases. This signifies a difficult modern issue we now all face that is not just to do with the act of witnessing but about the validity of what we see, who we choose to believe and how we interpret it. Read my full review of A Passage North by Anuk Arudpragasam on LonesomeReader

3rd book of 2022. 4.5. So nearly a five-star read but the novel takes some time to find its footing, or rather, took time for me to find my footing within its slow, rambling, almost Proustian sort of quality. Shy of 300 pages it's astounding to think of the novel being comprised of just 3 or so scenes in the story world's present, the rest being rambles into the past or other stories, be it the story of Siddhartha Buddha, the story of Selvarajah Yogachandran's, known as Kuttimani, imprisonment and subsequent murder, or the story of The Cloud Messenger, a Sanskrit poem. The narrator, Krishan, hears about the death of his grandmother's carer, Rani, in the beginning of the novel and the book is divided into the three parts (corresponding, loosely, I realise now, with the '3' periods of present-happening within the story) which relate to the stages of events following starting with part 1, 'Message', part 2, 'Journey' and part 3, 'Burning'. Reading part 1 I foresaw a slow but meditative read, which is what I got, but I comparatively gobbled part 2, finding it so deeply perceptive that I found myself almost alarmed at some passages that read as emotions I myself feel so strongly but have never fathomed to identify or put into words [1]. The turning point, from the vague respect but boredom of part 1, to the awe in which I read the rest, was this paragraph. You could follow the thread of habit day in and day out, lost in studies and in work, among friends and colleagues and family, clasping this thread tightly with both hands so as not to lose your way, and then all of a sudden one morning, or afternoon or evening, sipping on a cup of tea at work or going to a friend's house on the weekend, you could come across a person or place or even an image of a person or place that suggested other possibilities, that brought to mind a completely different life, a life you might have lived or might still live, so that suddenly the life you'd been living for the last so many months or years, a life that till that very moment seemed fulfilling, satisfactory, or tolerable at least, became, with the soundless flicking of a switch, empty and hollow, lacking any connection to the person you felt you were or wanted to be. This also gives insight into Arudpragasam's prose, which I've already described as Proustian, or you could even call it Sebaldian [2], with long sentences and long paragraphs, sometimes for pages at a time. Typically it couples perfectly with part 2, 'Journey', as Krishan sits as a passenger on a train like on this cover and his mind wanders to his ex-girlfriend, to the Tigers and the political state of Sri Lanka, and of Rani and his grandmother, subjects that continually come up time and time again throughout in a strange and obsessive circular motion like the structurally thematic circles Sebald plays with in The Rings of Saturn. And even though violence is a central part of the novel, coming up time and time again [3], the real centrepieces of the novel for me on finishing were the idea of yearning as apposed to desire and the fruitlessness of life itself, to live only to one day, die. It also stands as a traditional tale of maturity, a portrait of the artist as a young man, as Krishan relates to his struggles with his ex-girlfriend which hold up as the more relatable and modern aspects of the novel, with sentences like this, There was a tendency, he knew, when thinking about people from the past, to believe that they'd remained the same while you yourself had evolved, as if other people and places ceased moving once you'd left them behind, as if their time remained still while only yours continued to advance. But in all the disappearing into the past, the stories within stories, the exploration of time, Sri Lanka's recent history, modern relationships, Rani's death, her grandmother's aging and deterioration, it all falls away and becomes a giant and consistent novel about yearning, perhaps more so than the other central theme I previously identified in the fruitlessness of life. As Krishan thinks in one of the final pages— What he'd felt at the time was not so much desire as a kind of yearning, for though both desire and yearning were states of incompleteness, states involving a strong, sometimes overwhelming need for something outside one's life, what was called desire always had a concrete object, a notion of what was necessary to eliminate the absence one felt inside, whereas to have what was often called yearning was to feel this absence and yet not know what one sought. —it becomes quite clear that this is a novel about being young and unsure of life's curvature. Of all the stories within the novel that add to this unifying thought, the Sanskrit poem he retells struck me the most, the man who asks a cloud to send a message to his distant lover. Once the retelling of the story is over, Krishan's thoughts continue, and his thoughts on it are where I want to end my review, as a final paragraph, to capture how the novel, in a way, feels in its entirety. It is with this last statement that the yaksha ends his speech and the poem too comes to an end, though Krishna could never think about the poem's last lines without dwelling also on the image suggested so obliquely by its ending, the image of the yaksha looking up from that lonely mountaintop as the monsoon wind blows in from the south, the image of that desperate, homesick, divine or semidivine being watching helplessly as the cloud is ushered north, its edges slowly dissolving as it is pushed farther and farther into the distance, its bodily integrity imperceptibly dwindling and with it the message entrusted with so much longing, till finally, like the dissipation of desire into yearning, it evaporates soundlessly into the nothingness of the horizon. _____________________________ [1] Which is perhaps a reading cliché, à la Orwell, 'The best books... are those that tell you what you know already', but it's for the first time in a long time that I've read things in a novel that do strike me as things I've felt but never thought about, or things I never expected anyone else to write about, proving to me that they are, as all things really are (another cliché), universal. [2] And on the subject of Sebald, having just finished Angier's biography of him, it makes me wonder how much of the stories retold here throughout Krishan's wandering thoughts, sometimes directly from a book he once read or a documentary he once saw, are real books and documentaries that Arudpragasam has seen himself and whether he is using the material as Sebald himself often took from books, causing new thought-processes into what a writer is 'allowed' to 'steal', or whether they are merely invented for the purpose of his overarching story. Update: in the back of the novel on relooking, in the acknowledgements, Arudpragasam relates where the stories are from and what translations even, when referring to a book. [3] With reports of steel rods up anuses, rods down penises, the gouging out of eyeballs. . .

He couldn’t help thinking, as the train hurtled closer toward his destination, that he’d traversed not any physical distance that day but rather some vast psychic distance inside him, that he’d been advancing not from the island’s south to its north but from the south of his mind to its own distant northern reaches. Author Anuk Arudpragasam has a PhD in Philosophy from Columbia University, and in a very pointed way, his novel A Passage North feels more like a framework for Arudpragasam to display his philosophies than a standard work of fiction — and that was okay with me. There’s not much plot here — a young Tamil man, physically and emotionally disconnected from the Sri Lankan civil war by his bourgeois upbringing, receives word that his grandmother’s caregiver has passed away and decides to travel to the heart of the recently ended conflict in order to attend her funeral — but with a narrative that is centered entirely in this Krishan’s mind as he learns the news and makes his journey, in a meandering style that has no dialogue and features paragraphs that last for pages, this is a dense and serious book of ideas with little entertainment value (and again, that was okay with me). Arudpragasam has Krishan muse on big ideas (trauma, history, memory) but also the mundane (the roots of addiction, the violence inherent in the male gaze), and throughout it all, Arudpragasam prods the reader into witnessing the effects of Sri Lanka’s recent history as Krishan is forced to do the same. Not every reader will have the patience or interest for this one, but as the most weighty novel on the 2021 Man Booker shortlist, I wouldn’t be upset if it won. On the same day that Krishan learns about Rani’s death, he also receives a surprise email from his former lover, Anjum; a beautiful and serious activist whom he met while studying in Delhi. These two separate events send Krishan’s ruminations into different directions; and while I wouldn’t say that his memories of this love affair add much emotion to the story, I do want to note that Arudpragasam is one of those rare authors who writes sex scenes meaningfully (probably because he focusses on the mental progression instead of the mechanics). As for the philosophising, the following might have been a nice sound bite if I chopped it after “unveiled”, but I want to give a sense of how densely Arudpragasam writes (and should also note that this paragraph started a page earlier but I couldn’t put it all in): Falling in love, or what deserved to be called falling in love, he had realized that night, was not so much an emotional or psychological condition as an epistemological condition, a condition in which two people held hands and watched in silent amazement as the world around them was slowly unveiled, as the falsities of ordinary life began to thin and dissolve before their eyes, the furrowed eyebrows and clenched jaws, the bright colors and loud noises, the surface excitements and disturbances all dropping away so that what remained — time stripped bare -— was the only way the world could truly be apprehended, so that even if this condition did not last, even if it was lost, as eventually it is always lost, to habit or circumstance or simply the slow, sad passage of the years, the knowledge that it has imparted remains, the knowledge that the world we ordinarily partake in is somehow not quite real, that time does not need to pass the way we usually experience it passing, that somehow it is possible to live and breathe and move in a single moment, that a single moment could be not a bead on an abacus of finite length but an ocean that can be entered into, whose distant shores can never be reached. In addition to Krishan’s thoughts and personal memories, Arudpragasam also includes him recalling, in detail, the plots of several books, films, and traditional poems. I might have found this to be annoying or strange if this were a standard novel, but as an act of witnessing, I found it appropriate to understand the specifics of what influences the author, through Krishan, was using to evaluate his reality. There was much on eyes and vision and witnessing (including some disturbing historical details and interesting funeral practise) and the following contrasts Krishan’s thoughts about Anjum’s beauty and the horrors that Rani experienced during the war: Maybe it was for this reason, it had occurred to him at that moment, that eyesight weakened with the passing of the years, not because of old age or disease, not because of the deterioration of the cornea or the lenses or the finely tuned muscles that controlled them but because, rather, of the accumulation of a few such images over the course of one’s brief sojourn on earth, images of great beauty that pierced the eyes and superimposed themselves over everything one saw afterward, making it harder over time to see and pay attention to the outside world, though perhaps, it occurred to him now, four years later in the country of his birth, walking at the back of the procession bearing Rani’s body for cremation, Rani who’d seen so much that she had never been able to forget, perhaps he’d been naive back then, perhaps it was not just images of beauty that clouded one’s vision over time but images of violence too, those moments of violence that for some people were just as much a part of life as the moments of beauty, both kinds of image appearing when we least expected it and both continuing to haunt us thereafter, both of which marked and branded us, limiting how far we were subsequently able to see. Again, so much philosophising felt like Arudpragasam was speaking directly to me instead of filtering his ideas through the experiences of an invented character, and I was okay with that; I found it all interesting and maybe this is the most authentic way to write about atrocity. Further reading that I found interesting: an admiring interview with the author in The Paris Review and a more critical review in The Guardian. Definitely not for everyone but it feels like A Passage North will remain relevant into the future; and that's no small thing.

Beautifully written account of life in Sri Lanka by an author that has lived there through its turbulent history and experienced first hand the horrors of its long civil war. Not only is there a relatively straightforward depiction of life in and around Colombo, but also much introspection regarding the deep subjects that occupy Krishan, most notably the desperation of those who attempt to leave the country and the difficulties faced by immigrants. Not an easy book, but a relevant one.

If you're looking for a plot-driven novel, A Passage North is not for you. Gratefully, I have a high tolerance for stories that are grounded in reflection and philosophical rumination and so there was a lot to appreciate in this novel for me. This is a novel that considers heavy, complex ideas against the backdrop of the Sri Lankan Civil War. I was especially affected by its exploration of trauma, the way it is measured and compared, internalised, and the way it can be so inextricably tied to a place or a sensory experience. At times, this novel felt meandering and directionless, and at times I wished it had been edited a bit more tightly. But at the end, these deviations all looped back around and I could see how purposefully each fragment of the narrative built to the conclusion. It's not necessarily an easy read, but there was a lot I appreciated about it.

I honestly don't know what to think of this book. Objectively, brilliant writing but did I really enjoy it? No one knows.

Let me just say that this is not your ordinary novel by any stretch, a good thing, but also something to be aware of if you're considering reading this book. Also, the writing here is incredibly beautiful; the sort of stream-of-consciousness style here works well as we're made privy to the narrator's thoughts, almost as if he is drawing the reader into a conversation. I'm in awe. It takes a bit of time to get used to the writing style, but after that, oh my god. I will definitely be back with more but today I'm having a bout of minor food poisoning so this is all I can muster at the moment. ps: I may change my initial rating after going through parts of it again so don't hold me to the 4.

“He couldn't help thinking, as the train hurtled closer toward his destination, that he'd traversed not any physical distance that day but rather some vast psychic distance inside him, that he'd been advancing not from the island's south to its north but from the south of his mind to its own distant northern reaches.” Anuk Arudprakasam is a lyrical prose machine -the how it is said matters more to him than the what. So the author takes off on flights of untethered journeys across Sri Lanka and memory - steeped in philosophy. While the major part of the book is supposed to be about Krishan's physical and mental journey, it is the other characters, some mentioned in passing, that stay with you. Krishan gets two messages on the same day - one a phone call informing that Rani, his Appamma's caretaker has died in her village up north; the other an email from Anjum his ex-girlfriend from India. With hooks to fetch memories it seems like the author just wishes to hold together pieces of really good writing into a story. Early in the book he invokes the story of Poosalar from Sivapuranam - a moving story of how a mendicant builds a grand temple in his mind which pleases the God. Krishan, the protagonist builds many such temples/pyres in his imagination consuming memories and enlightenment. One of the common thread is how much of the literature he uses as stories (retelling it really impactfully). From the longing for physical intimacy to an extreme episode of PTSD - the writing is wordy while the tone remains the same. While the past goes all the way back to Delhi where he meets Anjum, the journey from Delhi to Mumbai to Colombo to the funeral in the far off north-eastern village - the Sri Lankan war/genocide takes prominence. It is as if the physical proximity to the place determines the focal of narrative - from the feeling of flutter for a girl you like to a burning corpse. I do not know if this will go on to win this year's booker, but the book is a hat-tip to the school of artistic literature.

When this book opens and Krishan learns about the death of his grandmother's caretaker, I assumed he was going to focus on his grandmother and his family. But he then gets side tracked and this goes on and on. It took me a little while to realize these sidetracks were the book. And it also took me a while to realize that this caretaker, Rani, was the key subject - a representative of the tragedy of the Sri Lanka civil war. My fifth audiobook from the Booker longlist, this is all in the head of Krishan, a Tamil from Sri Lanka who experienced the civil war only from a distance. His passage north is to Rani's funeral. Rani, we learn, lost two of her three children to the civil war, both her boys, one on the last day of the war, a final shelling. She was broken, and never could recover. As Krishan travels, he reflects... on the Tamil loss, the war‘s horrors, and on his own life, all with some philosophical touches. Rani's funeral serves as a kind of focal point. The text is really fine, although it demands your full attention, so is a little challenging on audio. But it's carefully worded, meaningful and readable. I put this on the high end of 4 stars. I enjoyed it. ----------------------------------------------- 54. A Passage North by Anuk Arudpragasam reader: Neil Shah published: 2021 format: 9:15 audible audiobook (304-pages in hardcover) acquired: October 26 listened: Oct 26 – Nov 7 rating: 4 (maybe 4 plus) locations: Sri Lanka & parts in Delhi and Bombay, India. about the author: Tamil author born in 1988 in Colombo, Sri Lanka. Attended Stanford University and received a PhD in philosophy at Columbia University in 2019.

BOOKER PRIZE LONGLISTED (4 OF 13 FOR MY READING OF THE LIST) 4.5/5 A young Tamil man, Krishan, goes to the funeral of his grandmother’s former caregiver, Rani, a woman who lost two sons during the Civil War. Trying to figure out why or how she has died, Krishan contemplates the impact of trauma and loss, trying to make sense of the deep wounds among his people in the aftermath of the Tiger’s defeat to Sri Lankan forces in the late 2000s. A PASSAGE NORTH is not a plot driven novel, but it is an absolutely gorgeously written book that delves deep into philosophical questions and historical accounts that haunt Krishan in a way that leaves the reader in awe, amazed how writing could be so beautiful. I’ve shared this passage elsewhere, but it is worth doing so again to give a sense of the long, winding but flowing sentences that Arudpragasam gives us: "He would think, listening to the Sivapurānam, of the sea in Sri Lanka as it was during the calmer months, specifically of the sea in Trincomalee as he’d seen it once on a warm, late June evening, the water a calm, waveless sheet of glimmering, glistening blue that stretched out silently toward the sky. He would think of how the water unfurled itself so softly across the gentle slope of the beach, how it swept over the smooth, polished sand with such tenderness and how reaching its full extension, just as it was losing all its momentum, it would pause as if taking a breath in a last brief embrace of the earth, clasping the land for as long as it could before being drawn back with a sigh into the sea. He would think of the sea, rolling and unrolling itself softly and placidly across the edges of the earth in this way, coming into contact with the shore so lovingly and gratefully and then, when it was time, withdrawing so gracefully, and he would wonder whether it was possible for him too to be in Anjum’s presence and then return to himself with such grace and equanimity, to attach himself to the thing he loved and then detach himself without each time ripping apart his soul, though the truth, he knew, was that such a stance was only possible at certain moments, at least for him, moments in which he was, for whatever reason, briefly in possession of himself, for it was difficult to be philosophical in the midst of desire, it was difficult to be as removed from the world as religious devotees claimed to be when you were caught up in the bliss of union or in the desperation of being parted." Early days but definitely on the shortlist for me at this point.

The journey is a constant feature in literature, within this ‘genre’ A character goes on a voyage and ends up reflecting upon themselves, or coming to a realisation about their existence or even rejecting everything and they just keep on travelling until something happens to them. Some examples: The Savage Detectives, The Stone Junction , The Exodus narratives. In the film world Pixar built it’s entire career on the importance of the journey, and that’s just naming one cause that can go on forever as well. Anuk Arudpragasam’s A Passage North is also a journey novel: One afternoon, main protagonist, Krishan discovers two messages. One is about his grandmother’s carer dying and the other is from a girl he had a relationship with back in Delhi. Krishan then decides that the right thing to do is attend the funeral of the carer, despite the fact that it is in the north of Sri Lanka, which suffered under the civil war. The book is divided into 10 chapters. One could say that they focus on a premise and it is explored in a philosophical manner. One chapter is about death, another one is about the many faces of love, another is about politics, especially the Tamil Tigers. These sections are not just cod philosophy: Arudpragasam digs deep and as Krishan is analysing his life he begins to notice that maybe all the problems which occurred could have been anticipated, like his break up or the carer’s actual death but at the same time an sort of existential mentality begins to overcome him. As this book is full of Philosophical meditations, there is no clear answer: some realisations, but nothing concrete. As all journeys end : the analogy that life is a journey is strong in the book, Krishan finally knows that this journey has ended once he sees the carer being cremated. i.e everything ends in flames. A Passage North is open to many interpretations, and who knows, maybe mine is incorrect but it is this aspect of the book that will divide readers. This is a rambly novel, filled with long sentences which need reflecting after reading. Some may enjoy it (me) some may find it off-putting so I am hesitant in recommending it. If you are ok with philosophical (and I mean PROPER philosophical, not the Alchemist) novels then I do suggest one reads it. Trust me, in it’s odd way the reader will benefit form these meditations.

Every time my guy started smoking he'd sink into a deep reflective spiral, reflections triggering reflections. This is a slow paced story of love, grief and death as Krishnan travels to northern Sri Lanka to attend the funeral of his Appamma's friend and carer.

To begin with, the writing style of this book is different from many novels that I have read so far. The writer has not used any dialogues, the sentences are long and paras span one whole page. This could be difficult for some readers. However, the writer's writing is lyrical and philosophical. About the story, Krishan gets a phone call about the death of his grandmother's caretaker. Who lived in the northern part of Sri Lanka. The part of the country which witnessed civil war over many years. Thus, begins the journey of Krishan to the north and also his journey within himself. The whole book reads like a diary entry or an internal monologue of Krishan. You read about his relationship with his country, with himself and his ex-girlfriend. The civil war of Sri Lanka remains the backdrop of the story. It shows the aftermath and consequences of war, even on the people who were not directly involved. This is the first book that I have read which is based in Sri Lanka. Looking forward to reading more Sri Lankan literature.

"How many lies can you stuff into one person's life before the brain starts leaking?" David Grossman's novel is a three generational family saga. Vera, the feisty and strong matriarch, has lived on a kibbutz in Israel for many years. She is well-respected and loved by many. Her second husband is deceased, but his extensive family, as well as the entire Kibbutz community, adore this formidable woman. But there is another side to Vera, a person who "will twist the arm of any fact until it confesses". What baggage did Vera and her young daughter Nina bring with them from Yugoslavia in the early to mid-1950s? All those who know Vera love her, except, perhaps her elusive and troubled daughter, Nina. Nina is in and out of the lives of her husband Rafi and their daughter Gali. Nina, who is unable to stay in one place, unable to love or accept love. Why can't she move beyond these early memories, the memories of loss and betrayal? In order to record Vera's history and bring closure to haunting memories, Vera, Nina, Gali, and Rafi travel to Vera's homeland, the former Yugoslavia. All would be filmed to explain and preserve. Happy memories of the childhood, courtship, and marriage to her beloved first husband, Milosz, brings delight to this aged woman, but there are memories of horror too. Tito's secret police incarcerate Milosz who is suspected to be a Stalin sympathizer. Vera makes a devastating choice which results in her imprisonment at a gulag camp called Goli Otok, known as the Adriatic Alcatraz. Equally horrific is her separation from the very young Nina. Some memories are lost to time, some to dementia, and some need to be recreated in order to justify a poor choice. This unfortunate choice resulted in three generations of secrets, lies, and trauma. Grossman beautifully explores how the past can reverberate through generations, changing who we are, how we act, and how we react. He also examines how powerful love is and how redemptive it can be. And, maybe the most troubling theme is how we can convince ourselves that the truth was not actually true. If we are unable to fully absorb the consequences of a dire mistake, our mind allows us to change the facts. Denial can give peace. In the acknowledgments, Grossman explains that the character of Vera was based on a Yugoslavian partisan fighter who wanted her story told but allowed the author the freedom to invent and change as needed. For me, knowing a character was based on an actual person intensifies the story, but that was not really necessary; it was powerful enough. It was very evident why this author has been translated into so many languages, why he has been the recipient of many prestigious literary awards. Although this my first Grossman novel, it definitely will not be my last.

"In three other rooms in the hotel, Vera, Rafael, and Nina are asleep. Tomorrow morning, if the sea permits and the storm doesn't kick up again, we will sail to the barren island that lurks somewhere out there in the fog. That is the island where significant parts of my childhood and youth took place, even though I've never spent a minute on it." Based on the real-life story of Eva Panić Nahir, the narrative itself is framed as a memoir and the novel resembles autofiction. Coupled with the way it plays fast and loose with facts since David Grossman was granted the "freedom to tell the story, but also to imagine and invent it in ways it never existed" by Eva and Tiana, her daughter, the story picks up actual events and adds dramatic tension where none existed to fashion a story that does its best to depict the trauma of war and the ways it has us broken so that we are left to pick up the pieces after. At the heart of the novel is a terrible secret, a decision that has reverberated and poisoned the lives of three women across generations. While it's an adept novel, certainly well-written and nicely translated from Hebrew by Jessica Cohen, and I liked it more than the other book by Grossman I have read, it has its infelicities. Gili is an unconvincing female narrator; the "I" narrator reads too masculine due to tone and voice. Her interventions in the text and asides can also feel unnecessary. The narrative lacks the requisite gravitas and its execution falters.

On the surface this is the story of a Croatian woman who was imprisoned during the Tito regime on Goli Otok (an otherwise uninhabitable island which became a prison camp). However, the depth of the novel arises as it traces three generations of women – the grandmother (the imprisoned woman who is still haunted by her experience and the great love of her life), her daughter (who was abandoned during her mother’s imprisonment and has never made peace with her own life) and her granddaughter (an aspiring film director who is trying to sort our her life). The three women and the father/grandfather travel to Goli Otok, while the granddaughter films the family interactions. Of course, many stories, hidden secrets, emotions and reconciliations surface. After a slow start (for me), the characters develop and the tension and emotional energy builds. There is a lot of tough emotion here, but the novel is well worth reading.

I dived into this without any prior knowledge of Goli Otok and was immediately intrigued by what had happened to Vera and the resulting implications for her family. While I knew there was a big secret I did get a bit displaced in the middle third because I felt excluded from what the characters knew and why they were a splintered family. The esoteric nature of this book nearly made me lose faith that I would understand what was (and had happened ) to Vera. The last 1/3 of the novel was brilliant- Vera’s story and the unimaginable choice she felt compelled to make, followed by her guilt that this secret was so destructive she couldn’t tell Nina. In the end this made me think about how and why we choose not to tell secrets. Sparing pain when it may actually be more painful to know you have been excluded than the actual secret itself. This is probably a confusing a review unless you actually read this book but I can say that it is a very worthwhile read. I also found an interesting clip on tube about Goli Otak https://youtu.be/Zp2Jdsgz9hI and it’s history. It was a prison island for political prisoners of Tito and the regime in Yugoslavia. It was only decommissioned in the 1980’s. Grossman’s novel is inspired by Eva Panic Nahir who “became a symbol of almost superhuman courage, epitomizing the capacity to sustain one’s humanity under the harshest conditions.”

Mr. Grossman is one of my favorite authors. He packs so much emotion and undercurrent into his characters and plots. This work is about a dysfunctional blended family. The reasons for the dysfunction have their roots in WWII which is a recurrent theme in Mr. Grossman's works. The matriarch, Vera, is a force of nature and it would be impossible not to fall under her spell which apparently her extended family and friends have. Yet she and her family did not go through the war years without scars. This is not always an easy book to read but for those who stick with it ( the difficult part is a small part of the work) they will be rewarded. Also, I read About the Author at the end and this work is based on a real person and her family that the author became acquainted with. Having that information makes the work even more affecting.

