He walks the road of being… He’s on his walk of life… The end of the road is already in sight… Are there God and the Last Judgement waiting at the end of the road? …call The Holy Spirit, because all good art has this spirit, good pictures, good poems, good music, and what makes it good is not the material, not matter, and it’s not the content, the idea, the thought, no, what makes it good is just this unity of matter and form and soul that becomes spirit, I think, no I’m not thinking clearly now, I think and I’ve thought thoughts like this so many times, I think, that because pictures have a spirit painting can be compared to praying, that a picture is a prayer, I think, that the pictures I paint are prayer and confession and penance all at once, the way good poems are too, yes, you could say all good art is like that in the end… He keeps recalling his own life and the life of his alter ego… And which life is real and which life is dreamt up? Is he the one staying at home or is he the one lying delirious in the hospital? …and once again I’m reading Meister Eckhart and the book I’m reading now is called Unity with God, I just started it, but it really is worth reading even though I hardly understand anything, neither of Meister Eckhart, whom I’ve read again and again over all these years, nor of life… What we are and what we wish to be are two different things.

From our new Nobel laureate Shortlisted for the 2022 International Booker Prize Finalist for the 2022 National Book Award for Translated Literature Translation longlisted for the 2022 Oxford-Weidenfeld Prize Shortlisted for the 2022 Republic of Consciousness Prize, US and Canada And my novel of the millennium so far and the taxi is still standing there and I ask The Taxi Driver to take me to St Paul's Church and he says that'll be fine and I realize that I can't think clearly, I'm not sad, I'm nothing, just empty, just an empty blackness, I think and The Taxi Driver stops by St Paul's Church and I pay and I go into the church, dip my fingertips into the basin with the holy water, make the sign of the cross, and go to the third pew from the back on the left, I kneel and then sit down at the end of the pew and I think that ! always sit there, because that was where Ales always sat, and where we always sat together, I think and then I bow my head A New Name: Septology VI-VII is the third and final volume in Damion Searls' translation of Jon Fosse's Septology, a novel in seven Parts but physically published in three volumes from 2020-22, the English translations published by Fitzcarraldo Press at the same time as the Norwegian originals. And it is key to say up front that they do constitute one overall novel, rather than three separate works From the author's Nobel lecture: In Septology, it is this silent language ... that says that the first Asle and the other Asle may well be the same person, and that the whole long novel, of around 1200 pages, is perhaps just a written expression of one extracted now. My reviews of the previous volumes: The Other Name: Septology I-II I is Another: Septology III-V And I should also say upfront that the work as a whole constitutes one of the great novels of world literature in the last 10 years. It comes with a wonderful blurb from Jesse Ball which both speaks to the qualities of the novel and Ball’s own uniqueness as a writer: Fosse’s portrait of memory remarkably refuses. It will not be other than: indelible as paint, trivial as nail clippings, wound like damp string. This book reaches out of its frame like a hand. As with each of the Parts, Part VI opens with Asle visualising himself contemplating the painting that he finished immediately before Part I began, a painting that he increasingly feels will be his last: And I see myself standing there looking at the two lines that cross in the middle, one brown and one purple, and I see that I've painted the lines slowly, with a lot of thick oil paint, and the paint has run, and where the brown and purple lines cross the colours have blended beautifully and I think that I cant look at this picture anymore, it's been sitting on the easel for a long time now, a couple of weeks maybe, so now I have to either paint over it in white or else put it up in the attic, in the crates where I keep the pictures I don’t want to sell, but I've already thought that thought day after day, I think and then I take hold of the stretcher and let go of it again and I realize that I, who have spent my whole life painting, oil paint on canvas, yes, ever since I was a boy, I don't want to paint anymore He goes on to realise: yes I have a real aversion to even the thought of painting anymore and I don't understand what changed so suddenly inside me, because it used to be that I had to paint, not just to support myself but to get rid of all these pictures lodged in my head, I think and I realize that there are still pictures in my head but I also realize that they are about to fade away on their own, they are about to come together into one slow picture that doesn't need to be painted and won’t be and cant be, yes, the pictures are about to come together into a stillness, a calm silence, I think and I feel filled with something like peace In the present-day we left Part V on Thursday evening, with Asle sitting outside of Åsleik's house in his car, having suffered a panic attack towards the end of their meal together. Part VII opens on the next day, Friday, 3 days before Christmas, towards the end of the day, and with very little action, but rather Asle increasingly absorbed in both his memories, and also his contemplation of his own artistic future. In his past recollections, we see Asle almost immediately where Part V left off, after his first meeting with Ales, and while there is more narrative development, Fosse's 'slow prose' takes us in detail through the first hours of their future life together. Asle and Ales, she whispers and he whispers into her ear Ales and Asle, he whispers and she says that it's strange that they have such similar names, the letters are the same, you just have to move them around a little And neither name's all that common either, she says Ales isn't anyway, Asle says and she says that Asle may be more common than Ales, but she doesn't know anyone else named either Asle or Ales, so both names are pretty unusual, she says and Asle says that he doesn't think he knows anyone else named either Ales or Asle either Ales, who lives in Bjørgvin, takes Asle on a tour of the immediate area, in particular The Lane, The Country Inn, The Coffeehouse and The Beyer Gallery, which even decades later form the centre of his visits to the city: and then they walk down The Lane and Ales says that if they take a right and go down that street they'll be able to see The Country Inn, the hotel where people visiting Bjørgvin from the nearby countryside often stay, and on the ground floor there's The Coffeehouse, one of the cosiest cafés in Bjorgvin, she often goes there herself, she sits there and sketches, she says, and what she actually likes to do there is sit at a table and secretly look up at this or that person and then she tries to do a drawing of him or her, Ales says ... they get to The Beyer Gallery, they can even see the building now, and she points to a big white wooden building up ahead, with a big parking lot in front of it That his first impression of the gallery that will form the foundation of his artistic career is of the parking lot, a nod to the way his visits to the city for the rest of his life involve him parking there, his only knowledge of the roads the way in to and out of the city from that spot, and then travelling around the rest of Bjørgvin by foot or by taxi. In Part I, Asle saw a young couple of lovers who appeared to be himself and Ales from their youth. Here we see the other side of that story, with the present-day Asle seeming to haunt the past Bjørgvin, Ales and Asle often encountering his figure. And the mirroring and time-slippage also extends to Ales and Asle seemingly also being followed by "the woman with the medium-length blonde hair", who is seemingly Guro (likely the other Asle's sister Guro rather than the Bjørgvin Guro, but standing for both), a figure to whom Ales takes an immediate and instinctive dislike. Ales also has an immediate mutual disdain with Asle's first landlady in the city, Herdis Åsen, who herself claims a past relationship with Eiliv Pedersen, Asle's teacher at the art school, which mirrors the one the Bjørgvin Guro claims, in the present-day to have had with Asle. Meanwhile, Asle also sees the early days at the Bjørgvin Art School of the other Asle. His Bjørgvin revolves more around drinking at The Alehouse and The Last Boat, and we see the end of his relationship with Liv, due to his affair with Siv, a fellow Art School student. Part VII opens on Saturday, "Little Christmas Eve." Asle visits Bjørgvin, to both visit the other Asle and also take all of the paintings he had been keeping for himself, including the purple and brown St Andrew's Cross, to a delighted Beyer to sell. There he encounters two separate, and for him shattering, deaths, sleeps in the city overnight (in Room 407 of The Country Inn of course) and then returns early on Sunday, Christmas Eve, to take a boat with Åsleik to visit Åsleik's sister Guro for Christmas. In the past, we see Asle meet Beyer for the second time (Beyer having bought the paintings at Asle's first ever, self-run, exhibition years earlier), although this time realising Beyer's importance as owner of the city's most influential gallery. Asle's Catholic faith and theological beliefs play an increasingly central role to the novel, and to his own contemplation of his and other's mortality, or rather to the mortality of their temporal life and immortality of their soul. Asle increasingly quotes from the teachings of Meister Eckhart In jenem Sein Gottes nämlich, wo Gott über allem Sein und über aller Unterschiedenheit ist, dort war ich selber, da wollte ich mich selber und erkannte mich selber (willens), diesen Menschen zu schaffen. Und darum bin ich Ursache meiner selbst meinem Sein nach, das ewig ist, nicht aber meinem Werden nach, das zeitlich ist. Und darum bin ich ungeboren, und nach der Weise meiner Ungeborenheit kann ich niemals sterben. Nach der Weise meiner Ungeborenheit bin ich ewig gewesen und bin ich jetzt und werde ich ewiglich bleiben. And Fosse bring the novel to a fitting and very moving end. Wonderful - 5 stars doesn't do the novel justice. ‘And I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows except him who receives it.’—Revelation 2:17

Samuel Beckett's trilogy is about the physical decline of the protagonists, their increasing physical limitations and their constriction. Molloy, Malone and the Unnamable are people reduced to thoughts and memories who exist in paralysis. In Jon Fosse's heptalogy, the same applies to the protagonist Asle, but in his case this constriction relates to the psychological. The climax is reached in the conclusion "A New Name". What has been foreshadowed so far is brought to its logical conclusion: a painter who no longer wants to paint, a man who is left with only his memories, but who shies away from looking at certain places so as not to be reminded of the loss associated with them, who no longer likes the taste of food, who no longer takes off his coat to sleep and who focuses his gaze solely on a certain point in the sea. At the end of a life, there is tiredness, resignation. He finds support in his faith alone and so the transcendental level gains even more weight in this part. But unlike Beckett's trilogy, which ends with the Unnamable, Fosse's work ends with a new name. Hope, which in Beckett's work is only present in its absurd form - "I can't go on, I'll go on" - is much more tangible in Fosse's work. The overlapping of the characters (Asle - Asle, Guro - Guro) illustrates - as in Beckett's books (Murphy, Molloy, Malone) - on the one hand the mysteriousness of life. On the other hand, it also shows the insignificance of the individual - and at the same time his significance. For all our interchangeability, we are unique: we may exist in many, but our respective consciousness belongs only to us. Or in Asle's case, to the reader. We take part in his life, see the world through his eyes, merge with him and after reading the last page, it is difficult to let go because we know that something great has come to an end.

I am nearly at a loss for words - the third part of the Septology (A New Name) is so moving, so impressive. The minor slump of the middle part here picks up and moves quickly - almost dizzyingly. All the characters we know- the doppelgängers, the dead, the living - intertwine and oscillate forward and backward quickly in time, reviewing scenes from the previous days - and then occasionally burst into light. Some parts, wow; for instance, when Asle is standing in Ales’ hospital room and looking out the window and “the light goes through him and he sees the light spread out like a beam, like a kind of column of shining golden dust” - connects Asle's lived religiosity and seems - real. These last two days leading to Christmas Eve are filled with religious thinking. For we non-religious, it is an opportunity to experience belief. Overall this is a masterwork. I feel privileged to have read this, thank you Jon Fosse.

Finished it right when he won the Nobel prize. Will miss Asle.

I think

Concluding volume of Fosse's pathbreaking Septology. A masterpiece. Asle, the ageing painter, ruminates about how he started his artistic career and how he met his now deceased wife, Ales. He also frets about his namesake, Asle, suffering in hospital from an alcohol-related illness; he prepares for a Christmas trip with his only friend, Asleik; and he ponders his relationship to God. Having written longer reviews for the two preceding volumes (links below), the following are a few additional thoughts on the final book: Religion Asle's religious thoughts are prominent in this novel. He is a committed Catholic, regularly attending mass and praying daily with his rosary. His faith is deeply personal, based on an instinctive piety and familiarity with the teachings of the great mystic, Meister Eckhart (circa 1260-1328). The Catholic Church, plagued by abuses, has lost much of its luster in recent decades, but Fosse makes a strong case for the spiritual blessings that Catholicism can still offer. His prominent treatment of spirituality is uncommon within contemporary literature and welcome. While my own Zen practice is quite different from Catholicism, I see similarities in the inexplicable sources of deeper peace that it can provide: "...the truth exists in the unspoken, since it disappears and goes away when someone tries to say it, because thou shalt not make any image of God, as stands written, and that's probably exactly what I'm doing now, and precisely what I'm not doing when I'm painting and manage to paint well, then I make an image of something totally different and in that way maybe an image of God, but I can't think such things, I think and then close my eyes and am so tired so tired and I pray God forgive me my sins, because God is near whether a person prays or not, and in a way praying brings a person farther from God, as Meister Eckhart wrote, and that's because a human being is a prayer in himself or herself, in his or her yearning, I think and I think that's enough now and then I call Bragi and he jumps up from where he's lying next to my feet and he looks at me and his eyes sparkle in the darkness I don't understand anything, I don't, I say and Bragi looks at me with those sparkling eyes, his dog's eyes, and then I close my eyes Good boy, Bragi, I say" (p.66) Asle and Ales Asle often reminisces about his happy marriage to Ales, who died prematurely from an unspecified illness. They met as teenagers and immediately intuited that they were fated to be together, deciding to live as a married couple within a few weeks. One might argue that the perfection of their courtship and marriage is implausible (even though it heightens the pathos of Asle’s memories) and perhaps a weakness in the plotting of Septology. One explanation might be that Asle is romanticizing his past with Ales, but I think not, given his recognition of other flaws in his past life, such as his formerly destructive drinking. Alternatively, perhaps one should view Asle as part of a composite whole that includes the other Asle, his namesake, who had a more turbulent life, with two wives leaving him on account of his drinking. (There is a temptation to view Asle as an autobiographical portrait of Fosse, also a Catholic, etc. However, Fosse, now in his third marriage, is clearly not the model for Asle's lifetime dedication to Ales.) What did other readers think about the plausibility of the Asle/Ales couple? Fosse’s writing style On first starting the Septology, Fosse’s writing style seems daunting: the one long stream-of-consciousness sentence, the doppelganger Asle characters, and the sudden shifts from first person narration (Asle speaking of his current self) to third person (Asle speaking of his younger self or of his namesake). One quickly masters the style, however, and the three volumes read easily in a hypnotic, musical manner. There are just a couple of sections of more markedly fragmented prose in A New Name which identify moments of heightened emotions. Certainly, Fosse’s literary innovations are not at the expense of reading pleasure. Overall, I urge anyone with an interest in innovative writing to try Fosse, starting with The Other Name. But don’t stop there; the intensity of the Septology accumulates through the three volumes, and there is a big pay-off to finishing the set. Other Fosse reviews: Nightsongs (1997) 3* Aliss at the Fire (2004) 4* . The Other Name: Septology I-II (2019) 5* I is Another: Septology III-V (2020) 5* .

I'm pretty happy to say this is the best novel written in twenty-first century that I'm aware of (caveat: 'Books of Jacob' comes out in English pretty soon). If you've made it to volume three, you probably agree. While III, IV and V sagged slightly in places, here it's all action. Fosse brings everything together perfectly, intelligently, and with great depth of feeling. How many contemporary novelists could get away with including a commentary on the Pater Noster in their novel? One. His name is Fosse.

Damn. That was fantastic. The trilogy culminates in a profound meditation on death, reconciliation, and transcendence. Asle confronts the nearing end of his earthly life and reflects on his connections to others—his late wife, the other Asle, and Åsleik. The boundaries between life and death, self and other, art and reality dissolve in a final vision of unity. Here the consideration of the interplay between the mundane and the transcendent really comes into focus. Reconciliation, both with oneself and with God, is at the forefront. Fosse’s technique of merging voices and perspectives gives the text a symphonic quality, emphasizing interconnectedness, and the rhythm of the prose mirrors liturgical cadence and the conclusion suggests a movement beyond individuality toward universal oneness, resonating with mystical Christian theology. At least, this is one way to read it. There is so much going on and it’s clear that Fosse has created not just a trilogy, but a living, breathing text that rewards both encounter and re-reading.

Wowow. I was a little worried about digging into this one because of the overtly religious themes, but it works really well. Honestly, it's probably best to think of it as targeted toward late-/post-christian folks. The tone is contemplative and literary, but the characters are deeply realized within that context. It hits me as a mix between Karl Ove Knausgaard and Wendell Berry. Septology is pitched as a series of 7 novels, I think it makes more sense to think of it as a single novel with 7 books. The pacing and tone stay consistent across all the books. I totally get why he won the Nobel Prize this year. Big fan

the weakest of the three installments, but still phenomenal. as I neared the end of the book, I remember thinking how not only could the septology go on for many more installments, but the decision to keep it constrained as it was, and more interestingly, what was omitted from Asle’s life. The book leaves more questions than answers, but still felt finished to me, and I think the sense of incompleteness by the end makes it even more remarkable.

Wrote this thinking about my bookclub half a year ago I think: Why is this my most severe intellectual crisis ever? How could I enjoy reading immensely for forty years and then come across a book that completely stops the desire to read more novels? Is this what this book aimed at? Is it the bible of novels? What's going on? I've asked the book club, and told them I'm still in it, keeping the book club alive; if I can talk about this book each time we meet while they continue reading what we are supposed to read. They told me it felt as if they partially had lost me, but agreed to grant me this strange request. I sit there eating my pasta, listening to them talking about Lina Wolf, Geir Gulliksen and Knausgaard's latest. I find it interesting, but only in how it relates to Jon Fosse. Since I'm a literary kind of person in a setting like this I try to make the connections with Jon Fosse in a discrete way, but above all not as a repetition, since I don’t want to wreck their thirst for new revelations. I don't want to bother my bright psychotherapist guys with either worry or irritation. But I find everything really could be related to The Septology somehow, so I will probably manage to keep myself from too much repetition, I hope; while still attending. They are also getting kind of old and actually repeat themselves on occasions about their favorite topics. And it's one of the things we don't talk about really, our cognitive decline. I don't really feel it's an intellectual crisis to be honest, more that it is out of line with my former personality. I've seen it happen, this sudden, or slow change in people; to only put on repeat something familiar. It often burns bright through otherwise more solid and curious creative thinking when new information is too much to handle, or like when some of my patients have worry or anxiety and can't deal with unfamiliar things. Hence a way to balance emotions. I don't recognize myself in that. I want new emotions, and I don't even have to re-read The Septology to find out what made this happen. I feel as if everything is already there, and that it’s a sort of end. I don't know what to sublimate the reading of novels into anymore. I don’t know if I care about new information. Sex, wild living and adventures become sublimated into family life, sports and music. Money and high standards make for an interesting job in the sublimation process. Wine has sublimated into soberness and non doped emotions. Thinking in a premiere way by myself sublimates into reading, by a necessity. TV and film have since long been sublimated into reading too. What could reading become sublimated to? I thought it was the only, ultimate and the last sublimation. Nowadays reading has become thinking about Ales and the other characters in The Septology and I guess it’s a kind of sublimation too. Maybe writing might become the next step in the process. But what about the ideas, don’t they come from something outer, I wonder. How could I deal with closing down all input. And don’t I have to become good at writing, to satisfy that need, the new ideas fill? My intellect won’t be able to construct a novel of any class. I know I’m not talented at writing. But I guess I really don’t have to worry about an audience and therefore don’t have to worry about structure, or quality. As long as there’s some fun to it, I might as well continue writing. Things might still go on and keep changing. In the next book club we have ‘Cat's Cradle’ to discuss. They fell for my suggestion. But I might get away with pretending I’ve read it this time, since I’ve read maybe seven other books by Vonnegut. I might stay undiscovered while asking questions about their reading and make general comments on the author. I don’t want to seem suddenly illiterate or in some kind of opposition against them. I’ll simply see what happens. My paranoia won't get the upper hand on this.

The book (the septology) of my life.

Unusual form, bursting with substance. I imagine this is what the mind does as life approaches its winter - the blurring of places and names, time and space, the rationalizations of the past, the sudden shifts of thinking, a fusion of the people you knew and the pain they suffered - one is no longer certain of their own identity, if they even ever had one, and then foremost, a profound nearness to a God. The book is primarily about that, spirituality and the parts I liked most were explaining about where we find god, what god is - if it sounds preachy, then perhaps it is , but reading it offered a lot of introspection and peace, I imagine some people feel this way when reading the Bible or Koran. Secondly it’s about what it means to be an artist. Early on there’s a calling, and then there is tremendous pain, the book sears with white hot suffering - the synthesis of the two leads to art, real art (as opposed to fake that I’ll describe below). Then when the pain is too much, when even the art cannot alleviate the spirit, one turns to God. And all the while, during my reading I felt a pining to be in Scandinavia, my infatuation with the Nordics begins as a pre-adolescent, a hulking quiet Swede would captain the Toronto Maple Leafs ice hockey team for more than a decade, and his soft demeanor always attracted me. His style of play embodied and introduced me perhaps to my first notions of the Law of Jante and socialism; he was the type of player when sitting on two goals and a tap in away from a hat-trick would opt to pass to a teammate lest he share in the spoils. He never faltered in the highly critical media landscape that is the ice hockey center of the universe Toronto. You had other mythical creatures from that era, Peter Forsberg, Nicklas Lidstrom that would come out of small villages in Scandinavia and end up dominating the NHL. This socialist dream was something that perhaps I have subconsciously always been chasing; the comfort that I will be taken care of, that even if my labor was not desired or my body able, there would be some care, a comforting teat to suckle on. Even today, there sits atop my coffee table Nordic Wanderlust, a book with some of the great remote hikes found in Scandinavia, and you can't help but be taken in by the cozy cabins, the pristine nature, the solitude, the backing of a great social state. That's on the surface, and if you dig deeper into Knausgaard, the place is fraught with loneliness, alcoholism, depression, - themes you find in Fosse, yet somehow are glossed over in the brand Scandinavia. My favorite cafe goes with a Swedish theme where in a few days I hope I can celebrate the midsummer festival by dancing around the maypole. Ah, well, and if it can’t be that, then it’ll be some remote backwater in Canada, minus the state having my back. It is perhaps the same comfort that one of my whitest former friends sought out but, he chose to go the other way - rather than find the comfort of the common man he was hell bent on 'making it big in LA' a cliche of white suburbia wealthy teens if there ever was any, and in that perhaps he succeeded in where I failed. It has been a decade since any of us had heard from him, his goodbye note to our group of friends was that he was to wed in the Napa Valley to which he suffixed the disclaimer that he knew none of us would be able to afford the 5,000 USD per night price tag of his wedding venue. It was merely symbolic. So he's succeeded and I wouldn't call him a joke of a man, but a joke of an artist because that's now his domain. Some garrish paintings of a dog and a swimming pool, and some other hogwash with the million dollar babies of SoCal - you must imagine a bearded white man at a Michelin star describing a play that he wrote for - on the surface it could be plausible. If it feels disingenuous to talk this way of a former friend, I believe ten years is enough of a time to say that relationship has been put to past. I wonder how much of the other art that I consume comes from these fraudsters? A helluva lot, I presume. Should my chiding also be directed towards Fosse and the Scandinavian nations? NOMA, etc?) It strikes me that the 'let's get ten of our rich friends to rent Fiats and film our experience on our Leica's as we parade down the Almalfi coast’ as cringe worthy as a stag party I might see in my town, the only difference would be the trust fund. But do go see his play!!! Another digression stemming from my failures, but damn it felt good to get out. And if you want to know how to get something out, then this is a good book. It is perhaps the lack of my own suffering where I fail at any attempts at art. In closing, I have suffered no great losses in my life, but I think I might re-read this one when that time comes or more of Fosse's work.

UPDATE: WINNER OF THE 2025 BOOKER Anyone who has ever attended an introductory writing class has heard all the “rules”: active voice is far better than passive voice. Steer clear of banal dialogue. Keep the emphasis on the character’s thoughts. Make sure your characters are “relatable.” David Szalay breaks all the rules and thank god for that! The result is a hypnotic and immersive novel that grabbed my attention from page one and kept it until the very last page. From the start, Hungarian teenager Istvan doesn’t act but is acted upon. Our first encounter with him is when he begrudgingly agrees to help a very old (42) married neighbor with errands, and she purposefully seduces him -- stirring up confusing feelings. Soon afterward, a Big Bad Thing happens, with reverberations that echo through Istvan’s life. We never are privy to what Istvan really thinks about the Big Bad Thing, or anything else, for that matter. Most of the time, his answers to any attempt to find out who he is are staccato-like. Here is a typical example: when a wealthy woman questions him about what it was like being in the army, he tries to figure out what she wants him to say. He ends up with a simple, “It was okay.” She answers: “What do you mean okay? What does that actually mean? When you say it was okay, you’re not actually saying anything, are you?” She follows up by accusing Istvan of being evasive, and he does not convincingly deny it. Despite himself, Istvan leads what some might consider a charmed life. Each chapter prods readers further into his future in London, as Istvan eventually comes to the attention of a very wealthy advocate. Soon, he is a driver for London’s billionaire class. Yet Istvan never truly aspires to what unfolds. He remains detached, accepting what is granted to him, never celebrating his good fortune but rather simply accepting it. He appears to want and expect nothing from life and, while frozen emotionally, his essential nature and his humanity peep out at certain intimate moments. It spurred emotions in me, though, and I totally loved this book. I owe a deep thanks to Scribner and NetGalley for enabling me to be an early reader in exchange for an honest review.

Update 2 : Now the winner of 2025 Booker Prize. So happy for it. I'm fascinated that Barry Lyndon is not mentioned at all when discussing this masterpiece. Update : Now shorlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 - This is my favorite so far, but I have three more books to read until the winner is announced. The minimalist prose and dialogue are actually perfect for the kind of character Istvan is. He is so passive that he almost doesn’t participate in the things that happen to him, and I really liked the unpredictability that this brings to the story. Unfortunately for me, but maybe not for you, about halfway through I realized that this is based on Barry Lyndon. That meant that in the second half I knew what was going to happen. I can still appreciate how David Szalay rewrote the story, but that’s the disadvantage of remakes : when you know the original, something gets lost.

there was something so incredibly compelling about this. beautifully written yet easily digestible. couldn't put it down

Big yes from me. Szalay delivers a master class in storytelling here. His protagonist Istvan moves through a series of disturbing and upsetting experiences between the age of 15 and his middle age and we observe these through the lens of the physical responses and bodily experiences he has. It takes immense skill to occupy the interior of such an emotionally detached character and simultaneously to build tension so effectively. It was an edge of your seat reading experience for me. A clever, compelling, empathetic examination of masculinity and class. A strong start to my Booker prize 2025 reading.

I nearly gave up on this book, because the main character - Istvan - seems to spend most of the first few chapters having sex, and I wasn’t sure I could take any more squelching. I’m so glad I persevered, though, as I became completely invested in this tale of rags to riches. I also loved the refreshing sparseness of Istvan’s dialogue. The vast majority of his speech is one word: okay. Quite unlike anything else I’ve read recently, and I loved it.

Okay. Sure. It was good, yes? Yes. I am left feeling the few things in life we can rely on are the seasons of the year, our lives are not mapped out, decisions, indecisions and other people really do influence our beginnings, middle and endings. This read was bullet fast about a man not quite in control of his life nor emotions, easily influenced and very pliable. I am left thinking how different his life could of been from the first life changing event and onwards... how different his life could of been if he said or did more... and for me, I am really happy with having read a novel that has left me thinking. This book hit a spot I never knew existed, I was prepared to be in the 1-3 🌟 club after the reviews, and yet here I am, eagerly giving 5 🌟🤩

FLESH David Szalay Thanks @scribnerbooks for this copy! “I don’t know.” - FLESH, David Szalay This one bursts out sick and strong, setting the stage for a simmering, then sizzling boil about a man who perhaps unknowingly does things the way he does them because things have also been done to him. Its about how people perpetuate ongoing grooming and exploitation of one another ad aeternum. It’s about men—and that essential bit of a void they tend to have that disconnects the thinking mind from the acting body, most pronounced as a child gains adulthood: something that occurs sexually in humans before it does emotionally. What happens if a severance occurs during that uneasy, uncomfortable transition full of unbearable emotions and doubt? How could anyone ever be sure of anything ever again? What if a man becomes a man in a place that isn’t home? How are you supposed to find your way without the slightest safety net? And what about altruism? Can you really ever help someone if there’s not something in it for you, too? Does any good deed go unpunished? ….Does ANY deed at all go unpunished? How does guilt factor into that? What IS guilt? Flesh is an experiment in action, progression, and momentum when the catalysts are chance and happenstance while the big capital-A answer seems to lie in hedonism, after all. My god, is that all chasing true love is? An exercise in trying to be happy by making someone else happy? Or is it really just more of a literal killing of two birds with one stone? Flesh is disturbing, fresh, original, and multifaceted. No matter how you turn it, this book has an interesting lens to peer through. I appreciate how it doesn’t answer to flaky cultural requirements for an easily digestible novel published in 2025. Just incredible.

I love this book! We follow István from his early life to his mid life always being kept at arms length from him emotionally. There is a sense from the writing style that István has low affect. As we read on we learn much more about him in fact and grow to really empathize and care about him (at least I did). There are certain moments that are kept from us as the reader ie what other characters said in conversation, what gifts were given. I appreciate the author David Szalay not holding our hand as the reader or feeling the need to spell everything out. The book is relatively plot driven because of the lack of emotions and it gets pretty wild and self referential. István lives a very unique life and is a character who floats through life by saying yes to almost everything that is presented to him. The pacing and energy of the book reminded me a lot of Paul Murray’s The Bee Sting. I couldn’t put it down because I always had the feeling I needed to know what happened next. Flesh comes out on 4/1/25 and I recommend it very enthusiastically!

I've never read a book that moves across time so well. Flipping back through after finishing it was heartbreaking, like going back in time in my own life. Routines feel so mundane in the moment, but when we look back, they encapsulate every aspect of who we are at a particular moment in time.

Orbital is a slender literary meditation on a crew of astronauts orbiting the earth. The very fact that it is not science fiction is itself miraculous and implausible. Humanity is in space. That we are in space is not a story about space—it is a story about Earth. The writing is gorgeous. The novel—if you can call it that—is essentially an obsessive circling around the view of Earth from space. Hold it in your mind, the book demands, this miraculous planet. There is not much character development, no real conflict, little in the way of plot. Just this obsessive circling, an effort to grasp something intangible in the specifics of space travel. To take the knowledge that humans have left earth and repeat it like a mantra; to embellish it with tiny images, like an illuminated manuscript—do these intricate illuminations say more or less than the words they honor, or do they speak together in one voice? Hold them in your mind. From this particular image, or infinite sequence of images—the earth from orbit—arises a more general interest in images: meditations on Velázquez’s La Meninas, on photographs of Earth taken from the moon. Does a change in perspective change anything? Or is it just human folly and hubris to think that by changing our view of the Earth we change the planet itself?

A starlit elegy to planet earth. 🌎 Want to see my Top Reads of 2023 on BookTube? Come find me at Hello, Bookworm.📚🐛 "Sometimes they look at the earth and could be tempted to roll back all they know to be true, and to believe instead that it sits, this planet, at the centre of everything." Small but mighty! A stunning meditation on our wondrous planet earth. This book gives account of just one day in the lives of six astronauts who are orbiting the earth. Samantha Harvey allows us glimpses of their daily lives as well as quiet, reflective moments on their personal lives. But the greatest moments this book has to offer come in the form of lyrical descriptions of the view outside the astronauts' window. Orbital is not a book to rush through. It's one that demands to be read slowly, consumed in small bites. Even then, it will be over soon, but its wondrous offerings will be savored long after.

set across one day, ‘orbital’ focuses on a crew of six astronauts as they orbit the earth from the international space station. this slim novel contains some of the most poetic, awe-inspiring prose i’ve read in a very long time. it’s set in space but it’s really a novel about the earth. it’s a beautiful meditation of humanity, the recognition of our fragility but a celebration of our hope. the overarching message continues to ring true long after you’ve closed the book: perhaps all is not lost if we take a step back and realise what it is that we’d be losing. rating: 4.5

Love love love love love love. Oh, my love. Sitting here astonished. The prose reminded me of Virginia Woolf. Don’t ask me why I felt that, I just did. This book is gorgeous, totally breathtaking. A spatial meditative and metaphysical odyssey. Using the backdrop of space and astronomy to explore down-to-earth human behaviors and experiences. Very unique to have your novel set in space yet mostly talk about what it’s like to be on Earth. I was truly in awe of this thing. FULL REVIEW TO COME. “Maybe human civilization is like a single life — we grow out of the royalty of childhood into supreme normality; we find out about our own unspecialness and in a flush of innocence we feel quite glad — if we're not special then we might not be alone.”

4.5★ (Winner of the 2024 Booker Prize for fiction) “They’re humans with a godly view and that’s the blessing and also the curse.” Sixteen orbits in one day of one planet, Earth. Six astronauts, each with a particular task, working with seeds, plants, mice, and the like, are living in extremely close quarters in an extremely distant location. “Six of them in a great H of metal hanging above the earth. They turn head on heel, four astronauts (American, Japanese, British, Italian) and two cosmonauts (Russian, Russian); two women, four men, one space station made up of seventeen connecting modules, seventeen and a half thousand miles an hour. They are the latest six of many, nothing unusual about this any more, routine astronauts in earth’s backyard. Earth’s fabulous and improbable backyard.” Nothing unusual, just routine backyard activities, or so we’re told. Those are the dry facts, the bare bones of the account of this particular expedition. The real stories of each astronaut are as individual as they are, but like many highly skilled people, they have more in common with each other than with the families they have left behind. They strap down their feet at their workstations so they don’t float away. Their muscles atrophy, so they must lift, pedal, press, exercise. “Without that hefting and sweating and pressing she would survive the blazing heat and tumble of her re-entry only to be pulled from her capsule and fold like a paper crane.” They have had to accommodate themselves to living an artificial 24-hour day, according to their watch. They see dawns and sunsets, one after another, around and around and around the world. They perform their tasks (monitor mice, plants, experiments), ‘dine’ together, watch a film, and then darken their sleeping areas and go to ‘bed’ for the ‘night’. “They hang in their sleeping bags. A hand-span away beyond a skin of metal the universe unfolds in simple eternities.” Perhaps the universe thinks these eternities are simple, but each of these six people is as fascinated and mesmerised by the changing lights in space and on the planet below as we are by the author’s descriptions This is a short book, but not one to be skimmed. There is philosophising about what we humans are doing to each other and our home, and there is also mention of a spaceship with four astronauts headed to Mars – another place for us to colonise? To give a sense of her language and style, I am quoting this long piece about how they gather, one by one, to gaze at the Aurora Australis, although they have seen it before. “But now Roman can begin to see what he suspected was there, a thing they all know, with a kind of sixth sense, is there – the flexing, morphing green and red of the auroras which snake around the inside of the atmosphere fretful and magnificent like something trapped. Nell, he says, come quick. Nell, who is passing through the module, swims up into the dome. The two of them treading air in their lookout. The airglow is dusty greenish yellow. Beneath it in the gap between atmosphere and earth is a fuzz of neon which starts to stir. It ripples, spills, it’s smoke that pours across the face of the planet; the ice is green, the underside of the spacecraft an alien pall. The light gains edges and limbs; folds and opens. Strains against the inside of the atmosphere, writhes and flexes. Sends up plumes. Fluoresces and brightens. Detonates then in towers of light. Erupts clean through the atmosphere and puts up towers two hundred miles high. At the top of the towers is a swathe of magenta that obscures the stars, and across the globe a shimmering hum of rolling light, of flickering, quavering, flooding light, and the depth of space is mapped in light. Here the flowing, flooding green, there the snaking blades of neon, there the vertical columns of red, there the comets blazing by, there the close stars that seem to turn, there the far stars fixed in the heavens, beyond them the specks that can barely be seen. By now Shaun and Chie have come, and Anton is at the window in the Russian module, and Pietro in the lab, the six of them drawn moth-like. The orbit rounds out above the Antarctic and begins its ascent towards the north. It leaves waves of aurora in its wake. The towers collapsing as if exhausted, twitches of green on the magnetic field. The South Pole recedes behind. Roman’s face is like that of a child. ‘Ofiget’, he murmurs. A ‘wow’ snatched from the back of the throat. ‘Sugoii’, Chie replies, and Nell echoes it. Remember this, each of them thinks. Remember this.’” [Russian and Japanese] Aurora Australis, International Space Station, September 2024, photo of the day Mother Nature’s stained glass window? I loved the writing and descriptions and became fond of the characters, all of whom were torn between never wanting to leave and wanting to go home. The environmental and political messaging is obvious, of course. It’s hard to be subtle about the Universe reporting that we are “not achieving to potential and could do better”. The only thing that made me hold back part of that fifth star was that I think I would have preferred it as a shorter novella. The first author who comes to mind who writes these so well is Claire Keegan, whose own beautiful novella, Small Things Like These, was shortlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize. I loved it. (Mind you, I also loved the much longer winner, The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida) I’m not sure exactly what happened, whether it slowed down (or I slowed down), or it became repetitive, but I felt a bit ‘too full’, as if I had binged on desserts instead of choosing just one to round off my meal. I feel petty even saying that about such a memorable experience, imagining how we look from out there, and how ‘out there’ looks from a spacecraft. If you are interested: My review of Small Things Like These by Claire Keegan My review of The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida by Shehan Karunatilaka

FULL READING GUIDE NOW AVAILABLE! 200 pages tethered together by a little glue and a pretty cover... I'll admit that's why I picked this up. In addition to the fact that Orbital has won many awards.. all I've had the attention span for lately are short books and easy audiobooks. Orbital far exceeded EVERY expectation that I had. I read this in 5 hours.. with a few bathroom breaks, one 30-minute commute, etc.. and I'm in love. It's hard to understand the idea of true objectivity and looking back to your life until you read a book like this. When we were kids.. my dad used to say.. 'you're just a carbon-based life form on planet Earth, in a solar system, in a vast network of other solar systems...' and it would continue until I realized that my problems really aren't that big. What comes back to you when you start reading books like this is funny. I'm reminded once again that I am just a tiny spec in the universe of universes, and it's all little stuff in the grand scheme of things. Beyond the symbolic... I loved the descriptive nature of Orbital. At every turn, there was something beautiful to 'see'.. and I felt like I was right there in the space station with these astronauts & cosmonauts. Easily one of my favorite books of the year - I will be gifting and recommending this book to everyone!! It's sci-fi, but it's also a little philosophical. P.S. Did you know that spaceships don't have gravity..? Why did I assume that they had StarTrek-like innovation and capabilities? Lol, my brain didn't *brain* that one I guess?

Planning my reread already. All the stars.

I was moved and changed by reading "Orbital." Samantha Harvey has gifted us with an amazingly articulated deep dive into space, the universe, and our place in it. It was an awe inspiring word picture that I could see as clearly as a NASA video. There were astronauts and families and people who are loved but, for me, their stories were usurped by the brilliance of space. Orbital changed my outlook, making everything feel simultaneously grander and smaller at the same time. How could I not give it 5*?

In light of NASA’s recent announcement of the first crewed moon mission in 50 years that’s scheduled to launch in February of 2026, this 2024 Booker prize winner becomes more relevant and enticing to those who are fascinated by the idea of human endeavor in space. Same as the news, this book manages to temporarily take our mind off the fraught times we’re living in and give us a glimpse of the bigger picture. As long as enlightened, brave and capable people such as the real-life astronauts and cosmonauts (who were the inspiration for the book’s characters) exist and operate, the survival of our species remains an option, despite some of our fellow human beings’ efforts to the contrary. The ISS (International Space Station) has been orbiting the earth for the past 25 years, staffed with scientists from the countries who participate in this particular space program. The steady collaboration of both the institutions and the people who live and work in the station’s confined spaces is the brightest example of our capability to work together, connect and respect each other when striving for a common cause. The sixteen chapters of this short novel imaginatively describe one day in the life of a fictional ISS crew, their routines, thoughts and labor, the majestic images of earth they glimpse from their spacecraft’s portholes while circling the planet. A chapter for every orbit. In their mechanically defined 24-hour day they see sixteen sunrises and sixteen sunsets, sixteen days and sixteen nights. They are four astronauts and two cosmonauts, four men and two women. They are what is called “the right stuff”, and the author offers us a peek into their lives, along with a light cocktail of philosophical questions, scientific info, practical details and psychological descriptions of life in the “nothingness and everything-ness” beyond earth’s protective atmosphere. It’s a poetical narration alternating between the third and second person, the latter to make us better identify with them. When you enter your spacesuit and try to habituate yourself to the difficulty of moving, the painful chafing, the unscratchable itches that might persist for hours, to the disconnection, the sensation of being buried inside something you cannot get out of, of being inside a coffin, then you think only of your next breath, which must be shallow so as not to use too much oxygen, but not too shallow, and even the breath after that is of no concern, only this one. When you see the moon, or the pinkish tinge of Mars, you don’t think about the future of humanity but only, if anything, the logistical likelihood of you or anyone you know being lucky enough to go there. You think of your own selfish obsessive brazen humanity, yourself elbow barging past thousands of others to get to the launch pad, because what else gave you an edge over those but the propulsion of a self-determination and belief that burns up everything else in its path? There is no actual story here, but how could there be? If drama, and not restraint, was a major part of these people’s lives while out there, the whole project would have gone awry long ago. Nevertheless, the drama is there and it is absolute. It lies in the mere fact that this planet and this universe exist; such a plot twist in the grand scheme of things it outshines any drama we, small and petty humans constantly create. (On the other hand, if restraint, and not drama, prevailed on the planet we would soon run out of stories to write and tell.) It takes a book like this to remind us of our contradictions, and the news of future space missions to help us put our worldview in a much needed, broader perspective. We’re caught in a universe of collision and drift, the long slow ripples of the first Bing Bang as the cosmos breaks apart; the closest galaxies smash together, then those that are left scatter and flee one another until each is alone and there’s only space, an expansion expanding into itself, an emptiness birthing itself, and in the cosmic calendar all humans ever did and were will be a brief light that flickers on and off again one single day in the middle of the year, remembered by nothing. We exist now in a fleeting bloom of life and knowing, one finger-snap of frantic being, and this is it. This summery burst of life is more bomb than bud. These fecund times are moving fast.

Longlisted for the 2024 Booker Prize. Wow, such a short book but it has so much to say. Obstensibly about a group of astronauts from different countries living in orbit around the Earth on a space station. The astronauts and cosmonauts come from America, Japan, Russia, Britain and Italy. The group is perhaps a metaphor for our civilization on Earth. An ecosystem exists within the station, and all must work together for the group to survive and complete various missions. The point that hit me like a hammer, well not really because it is a philosophy I live by, is that we are all so inconsequential. In cosmic time, our sun has already exploded, imploded, whatever stars do, and we will have all moved on to what is next, if there is anything, in our existence. Reading this novel, only strengthened my belief that we as a race are simply a blip on the evolutionary scale. Much like staring at the ocean, the reader is almost forced to realize that our own existence is almost trivial. Our time will be over in really no time at all. At one stage of the novel the astronauts are tracking a tornado. On Earth it is catastrophic, devastating and destroying everything in its path. While on the station the crew tracks it with no power to intervene, a passive observer with no power to stop nature. Paradoxically however, Harvey's writing makes it clear how important our short time, and our connections to others are. All of the crew are homesick and miss loved ones and family. Little things are important to us individually and perhaps empathy defines us as a species. What Harvey does so well, apart from writing a great piece on the life of an astronaut living an extended period of time in space, is to show the contradiction of how important and yet how inconsequential we are at the same time. What an enigma the universe, the Earth, and ultimately our very selves are.

Honestly, I have spent the last few months trying to avoid reading this but it KEEPS ON popping up EVERYWHERE! I can’t seem to escape it. Even the library has had it front and centre 📚 so, I have eventually given in and decided to see what all the fuss is about 🤨 Why have I been avoiding it? Honestly, I have always had an aversion to anything space related. Random, I know, but it just really disinterests me. Maybe because it is so vast, I cannot comprehend it…I’m not sure exactly. However, Samantha Harvey proved to me that I can, in fact, enjoy a book about space! 👏🏼 This story may be about 6 astronauts, orbiting in space, but wholeheartedly, this is a book about Earth 🌍 No, Life… It is truly a book that encapsulates everything it is to be alive. Samantha has written one of the most profoundly inspiring and unique books I have ever come across. It is short, yet incredibly powerful, and one of the most beautiful books I have read in a long time. There is nothing more I can say, other than I HIGHLY RECOMMEND giving this book a read, even if like me you ‘don’t like things about space’. I will leave you with a few of my favourite quotes ✨: 🌟 ‘It’s brutal, inhuman, overwhelming, lonely, extraordinary and magnificent.’ 🌟 ‘Look at those men landing on the moon, look at what is possible given desire and belief and opportunity, and have all of those if you want them, if they can do it, you can do it, and by it I mean anything. Anything.’ 4.5 🌟🌟🌟🌟✨

Wow! This novella shy of 150 pages was a stunning reminder of what language was made for. Up in orbit a space station tracks around the Earth every ninety minutes - 16 orbits a day. During these revolutions, we are observers of the astronauts, much like they are observers of their space station mice. We are treated to wondrous magical descriptions of the surface of the planet as every continent and country slips past in numerous dawns and dusks. This isn't a science fiction story but elegiac prose celebrating our planet and our place in the infinite realms of space. It shows us what we have to be thankful for but also how vulnerable we are, with the tracking of a major typhoon and its devastating effects, the fragility of the space station and the effects on the human body of long term life in space. Although only a small book, it took me nearly two weeks to read it as I wanted to savour every word.

Wow. Orbital isn't really like anything I've read, and I don't think I'll stop thinking about this book, maybe...ever. This tiny book (novel somehow doesn't feel like the right word) gives us a glimpse into one day in the lives of six astronauts from five different countries as they live together, circling their collective planet. A meditation perhaps is the right word for this book. It is a meditation on the fragility and wonder that is life. It is about what it means to inhabit our planet more so than anything about space. There's no plot here, but the language is what made this unputdownable for me. We get a glimpse into what it might be like for the world to be going on below you, lives being given, lives being taken, and how it might feel to be outside of it all yet still part of it. Yes, this sent me into a bit of an existential crisis… If you read this you’ll think about what it might be like to be a human with a “godly view”. How’s that’s both a blessing and a curse. You’ll think about what new perspectives you might gain by seeing the vastness of it all while still knowing the minutia of it all. This was so good.

Extraordinary. I was sent a galley with the suggestion that it would be the kind of thing I would like, which people often say when sending me galleys, but nine times out of ten it’s not even close. But here was a book precisely for me: these interconnected stories of life in a town, where no real growth or progress is possible, but where leaving will present its own harsh realities, accumulate strength as they go. They are all about death; death permeates this book, But it is not lured, not sensational. Nor does it wallow in its own anguish. I will be thinking about these stories for sometime to come, seeing what this small Polish town full of people who come to hard ends has to tell me about the broader world. The author is a poet; I am an absolute sucker for novels by poets, I think the language and logic of poetry mix for great books. This is one.

Cheeky lil re read!! Ooof — this book is pretty fantastic. The bulk of this book takes place in an interrogation room, and that's sort of how this book feels. Like an interrogation, an interrogation into your own internal politics and your selfishness. I think on its surface, this book is about a woman who veers toward the sociopathic, who is so detached from humanity that she denies help to a migrant boat with 27 drowning people on it, begging for a rescue from the French coast guard. And you hate her, you really do. Throughout this interrogation, she's callous and shifty, she throws blame in other directions, plays the victim, and downplays the scenario. But there are so many moments where she says something that will catch you — because she also tells the truth sometimes. She tells the truth that, in fact, most people would deny help to a migrant boat. Most people already do exactly that in small ways every single day. Ignoring the needs of the world's most vulnerable and precarious people, in favor of self interest or simple, head-in-the-sand ignorance. I think there are some other choices in this book that worked particularly well, but I won't spoil anything for you. What a crazy book that so accomplishes what it sets out to do that I have to applaud it. If this peaks your interest (or even if it doesn't but you can digest literary fiction), I would highly recommend it. It'll challenge you in unexpected ways and surely infuriate you.

a powerful and very topical novel which examines the complexities of the migrant crisis and the moral dilemmas we face when considering our complicity in it. inspired by the real-life november 2021 english channel disaster, in which 27 migrants drowned, the story follows a radio operator in france who took the distress calls from the sinking dinghy and is now facing accusations of negligence. while the novel explores the uk and france vacillating between who should accept responsibility, it also largely speaks to us as global citizens who all bear witness to these tragedies, a moral responsibility that isn’t simply confined by borders. it’s a book that forces you to reckon with some uncomfortable truths, and one i recommend everyone to read. 4.5

I read this nearly a year ago, and I haven't stopped thinking about it. Rightfully bumping this up to a five-star read. --- This quiet little novella is a thinker. I really enjoyed how it takes what is seemingly a straightforward dissection of accountability and blame and teases it out to a harder conversation on morality and complicity. The actions of a single first responder are an easy target for the tragedy, but it neglects to consider the vast upstream causes behind the crisis at hand. Many of us are complicit in the suffering and exploitation of refugees, and the moral posturing and language we use highlight that. Sometimes the difference between good and bad is the language we use, more than the actions we take. Part 2 (a retelling of the fateful night that 27 people lost their lives at sea) is haunting and will stick with me for a long time. This novella forces the reader to look - for better or for worse - and interrogate our own disconnect between stance and action. Highly recommend, and I wouldn’t be surprised if I revisit this and bump it up to a 5-star rating in the future. —- Currently in a typhoon in cottage country, so let’s see how much of the International Booker Shortlist I can knock out this weekend…

Phew, this was good. A woman working for the French Navy responds to the increasingly frantic calls from a group of 29 migrants as their dinghy taking them across the English Channel begins to take on water. For one reason or another, the woman really can’t be bothered to do much to assist, telling various lies and half-truths to the migrants, the English rescue services, and a French trawler in the area. 27 of the 29 migrants die. Split into three sections, the first finds the woman speaking to a police investigator who attempts to get to the bottom of why these decisions, or lack of decisions, were made. The more she inserts her own personal judgements, the more defensive the woman becomes about her culpability. Her line of thinking throughout the novel is circuitous and becomes philosophical as she tries to explain that it is impossible for just her to be responsible for this tragedy, that if she is guilty, then those who caused the migrants to be displaced also share in the guilt, the smugglers and the migrants themselves, who she watches enter the water night after night and call for help night after night, are not entirely innocent, that the people who sit on their couch and call her a monster and later walk by the homeless person sitting outside their office are just as guilty as she. The second section gives voice to the migrants in the dinghy that night, who at first also aren’t too eager for a French rescue that will put them back at square one, but who, of course, become desperate for any intervention at all as their situation becomes dire. The third section puts us back in the mind of the woman before she took herself to the police, though it makes the reader question whether the first section occurred in reality or was an imagined interrogation. We’re given the smallest glance into her backstory and personal life. The philosophicall questions continue and there are some really compelling lines in this section. This was fantastic and really well done. The urge to cast off the woman as an immoral lunatic, as the policewoman and those watching the news have essentially done, is understandable but misplaced. Because she’s not entirely wrong and it’s never really that simple. We squirm in our seats as we take our turn on the stand and assure ourselves we would do the right and moral thing every time, never faltering, never failing to save a single life. But that’s not true because we haven’t, we continually float while others sink, and often, they sink because we float. So happy the International Booker put this one on my radar. For me, it’s the hidden gem of this year’s prize Thanks to Hope Road & NetGalley for the eARC.

It took me 4 books and 1 viewing of the ironically Oscar-nominated American Fiction to realize Booker Prize shortlistees must be of the time. Must provide social commentary for today. Now, choosing a Booker Prize winner becomes a weighted decision—in itself a loaded question. How can a panel of authors and Sarah Jessica Parker decide just the right literary remedy for our world? Is such a task possible? Of course, this has me thinking a lot about what the winning of Flesh means, and, as some would suggest, it “puts male voices back at the center of fiction,” as if they’ve ever left, as if the greatest cancer society faces is the male loneliness epidemic! But I digress. All these realizations have made me grumpy over literary prizes. They are subjective decisions rendered objective. Bleh! But then… Then I think of Small Boat. How this didn’t win the International Booker Prize is beyond me. This is the zeitgeist. THIS is humanity, or rather our self-prescribed apathy towards it. Small Boat asks if we have the responsibility to save each other, and on top of that, how can we do so if we can’t even save ourselves? Think, whenever anyone talks of the news, a common sentiment arises, being that we must stop watching time and again out of self-preservation, who’s heard this before? I know I’ve felt it! We cannot save the people on our screen…at the least, we must save ourselves. Oh boy. This ingrained value reflects disgustingly through our narrator, a rescue agent who failed to save a boat of migrants traveling from French to British shores. She reiterates that her job requires apathy, as an investigator interrogates her on supposed negligence, perhaps cruelty. We want to disagree with our narrator. We want to say they would have been saved had she reacted differently. But how many times has the world turned a blind eye to brutality out of self-preservation? Better yet, how many times have we ourselves contributed to lives lost in Palestine, Congo, or China with remedies other than thoughts and prayers? I don’t know if it’s so much our fault. The world has made it difficult to save each other, and as such, we’ve adopted a sense of “othering” when we see people suffer. Sad, watching them flail in the sea while we stand dry on the shore. I do wonder… is apathy an inevitable symptom of society, or is it reversible? What do we do to change this? Man, this little book packs a punch. Brilliantly written and a sight to behold. Much to think about indeed

International booker Book 2 of my journey through the International Booker Prize! I am once again reading the entire shortlist, it has become a fun way to find new favourite books and challenge myself. I will be filming it all for my Youtube Channel! The rage I felt reading this little book. Impactful and intense story. The main narrator is a woman who takes a distress call coming from a boat carrying nearly 30 migrants as they try and cross the channel. This woman is horrendous, she is a monster in all sense of the word, she is desensitised and used as a device in this story to showcase the bystander effect. This definitely feels like a top contender for the winner of the international booker….

It is less than a month now since the US President administration warned more than half a million of migrants to leave the country or they will be deported. Our world is in turmoil, and if you think about it, while we are safe in our bubbles there are people out there that live under horrible conditions or even dying. In a way, we have lost sight of what being human is and we stopped asking why do men, women and children, all over the world, decide to get into a dinghy and flee their country? Why do they drown in the sea every night? “Small Boat” by Vincent Delecroix, will make you wonder and urge you to try and actively respond those questions. It is based on a true incident that happened in November 2021, when an inflatable dinghy carrying 29 migrants that were trying to cross the Channel and reach the UK, sunk in the sea. They repeatedly called the authorities on both sides of the sea but unfortunately no help was sent, resulting in the death of 27 of them. This book is the fictional testimony of the woman who was working for the French navy and was accused later on of failing her duty. The story is very strong and cruel and the writing is impactful and beautiful. The book will make you feel; it will fill you with emotions ranging from anger and desperation to compassion and love. It will make you think about our collective and personal responsibility towards what is happening to other people and will make you question on the timing when tragedies like this one start: do the boats sink at the actual time when water starts getting in, or as the narrator says, the sinking starts ages ago when those people are forced to leave their homes? This is a book about refugees, asylum seekers and migration policies. People fleeing poverty and war, feeling helpless and in despair. Inflatable boats and rescue missions. Survival, resignation and waiting for help that will never come. A story about personal and collective responsibility. Guilt and innocence, that are both conditional. Blame, pointing the finger and the difficulty of admitting that you were wrong. Keeping your eyes stubbornly closed in front of the truth and the hypocrisy of judging others. It is also a book about the sense of duty and negligence. Professionalism and making rational decisions that are not affected by emotion; the expectation to leave your soul outside of your workplace. A book about moral values and conscience. Having an opinion and the absence of opinion that is an opinion itself. Bad journalism and the need of the media to find a scapegoat. Introspection and reflection. Remorse and absolution. Words that become more important than actions. But most of all it is a book about humanity and the value of human life in our world of good and evil. Our suffering of cynicism, lack of empathy, and detachment. Our insensitivity towards human suffering and our distancing from a difficult situation because it is easier. Dehumanizing behavior, the air of couldn’t care less and human cruelty as a reason of death. Life stripped bare, humanity in question and our failure to act as descent human beings. Why should you read “Small Boat”? Because you will witness, all at once, one the one hand the beauty and grace, and on the other hand the catastrophic power of the sea. Because you will understand that we are all eager to judge others for what they didn’t do even though we ourselves don’t do anything as well. Because you will see that the presumption that when there is a moral failing the source is a previous life trauma, isn’t always correct. Because you will acknowledge that the fact that you didn’t need help or that you needed and nobody helped you is not a justification for your denial to help others. Because you will feel how better our world would be if we would put ourselves in the shoes of others. Because you will accept that where sense of duty fails humanity should prevail. Because you will acknowledge that we cannot afford to lose our humanity, even for one second. Because if you are human enough, you will dismiss your refusal to face what is happening in the world and you will feel complicit in the suffering of migrants. Favorite quotes: “We’re not listening to this just to make you feel bad, she tried to assure me, in a gentler tone, she was simply trying, she insisted, to shed some light on what had happened. I had to smile because shed some light on seemed to me a particularly unfortunate expression, seeing as how it is precisely at night, in the deep dark of night, that everything happens. Shed some light, I murmured, is exactly what we need to do”. “All of humanity’s problems stem from our inability to stay sitting quietly in the room”. “Yes, I confirmed, when the sinking started that’s the real question we need to answer. Because these people were sunk long before they sank. Their sinking didn’t start in the Channel; it started the moment they left their homes”. “I’m accused of lacking a soul, but my soul is precisely what I leave in the cloakroom when I get to work, it simply can’t fit in my uniform. I pick it up again intact from my locker when I leave”. “…how inhumanity develops while no one is looking”. “I may not have given much thought to the ongoing legal investigation, but I did think a lot, because that’s what happens when you sit and look at the sea: either you think a lot, or you think about nothing, which is probably another way of thinking”. “I have no problem listening to the recordings of that night and hearing my own voice, because it’s not the voice of a monster or criminal on the tape - it’s the voice of all of us”. “But it’s not something you can add up. Apparently, saving is the norm, what do you do, routine. It’s not an extraordinary action; It's quite ordinary, not the exception but the rule. And it leaves no trace, almost as little as of the people who vanish in silence into the abyss and are absorbed, digested, sometimes even spat back out by the sea. All that is normal - as though normal life was just like that - everyone saving everyone all the time. That’s how the human race survives; no need for Jesus Christ to save the world; we’ve been doing it perfectly well ourselves since the dawn of time, in every tiny provincial village. Salvation, if we are going to use big words, is something we offer each other every day”. “But it’s enough for one to be lost and there is always one, there has to be one - and it’s as if you had saved no one”.

What a stunning, distressing and absolutely critical little book. I'm so glad that this has made it onto the International Booker Prize 2025 and that more people will have the opportunity to read this short gem of a novel. In November 2021, a small boat carrying migrants from France to the UK capsized and sunk in the English Channel, which caused the deaths of 28 people. In the hours it took for the people to drown, they made several distressing calls to both the English and French authorities begging for help. Both countries exclaimed that they were the other one's 'problem' and to wait for help which was on the way. In reality, neither country acted fast or seriously enough to rescue them and only bodies of the deceased were discovered when it was too late. This is based off a true, harrowing story which shakes me to my core every time I read about it. The book is told from the perspective of the phone operator who took a number of the calls from the people on the boat, who was recorded saying things like "I didn't ask you to leave" and other disgustingly dismissive remarks regarding their safety and situation - her handling of the call is ultimately regarded to be one of the reasons the migrants were not saved in time. What the book does brilliantly is delve into the mind of a person trying desperately to defend their lack of empathy and initiative when it came to the handling of the call, and calls into question the unconscious (or what becomes apparent, probably quite conscious) bias against those the media likes us to believe are less worthy of life. The book not only puts us face to face with the detrimental arguments made by those such as the alt-right, but strikingly causes us to question the world's complicity in the lack of empathy and refuge for people trying to survive the effects of racism, xenophobia and war all across the world. The middle portion of this book almost brought me to tears, as it details the events on the sinking dinghy from start to finish. It juxtaposes the lavish excuses the phone operator uses to defend herself with the brutality of the life and death situation the migrants were in. Whilst the book is wholly political, it is also brilliantly written, cleverly constructed, and a book that I think almost everyone needs to read.

Every single person should read this book, full stop. This is a stream of conscious style recounting of an event experienced through the life of a French naval officer working as a coast guard support agent. We are immediately thrown in to an interrogation that grapples with culpability in a tragic event where said naval officer responded to an emergency call from a drowning vessel between the French and English territories. The first 50% of this short novella centers us around the interrogation and the mental gymnastics the naval officer deploys to relieve herself of some complicity in the eventual drowning of the vessel's passengers. I think that Delecroix stretches your moral compass in a really meaningful manner and will have you second guessing your stance in the manner at hand, saving human lives at all costs, in ways you have never experienced before. The second part of the novel is a retelling of the events from the passengers' perspective and was truly difficult to read, specifically because this is based off of an actual event. This, being the shortest part of the novella to me signifies the perspective of the situation, the catalyst event being a short blip in time and finite in nature but having incredibly lasting value on the naval officer and families affected. There are so many grand quotes in this 106 page novel and it is absolutely a deserving read. I am still grappling with the story and moral compass inquiries it tugs upon. There are two quotes I will leave you with, one of which is based on the necessary admonishment of the sea and it's vast infinite powers we can never control and the second is more acutely a quandary you will be forced to navigate amongst the text itself: "Every sailor fears the sea unless they're total idiots, in which case they're no sailor. And you can't really love the sa, strictly speaking, if loving means trusting, not fearing, if it means believing that what you love will be good for you, or at least, let's say, wishes you well. So maybe I shouldn't say I loved the sea, because it isn't something you can love." "Why save one, ten, twenty; it's all the same, since you can't save them all. There is always one left. Even if you saved all of them, there would always be on left, one you din't even know existed. And the one that you save will perish tomorrow or the day after, here or elsewhere. So why bother?" Let that sink in and if I have even remotely caught your attention, read this book upon publishing next year. Thank you Mariner for the ARC and opportunity to read this translated work before it's intended April US publishing.

When Hope Road reached out to me to review Small Boat back in the end of February, I took a look at the synopsis and thought inwardly that due to the subject matter, I wouldn’t be surprised if it would make the International Booker Longlist. After all, regardless of the judging panel , The Booker does tend to choose books which reflect the problems or topical subject in our society. In the case of Small Boat it’s about the refugee crisis. The is based off true events; in 2021 a dinghy containing 27 migrants from France on their way to the U.K. sprung a leak. There were only two survivors. To make matters worse, a coastal boat on French waters was quite near. As a result the coastal guard went under investigation. Small Boat, at least it’s first part reimagines the interrogation. Since Vincent Delecroix is a philosopher, I noticed that a lot of issues occur. For starters there’s complicity, where the coastguard is not sure if she is entirely to blame for the tragedy. At one point she wonders if the migrants were metaphorically sunk from the start as starting a life in a new country as a refugee is difficult. Throughout this part we find out that the coastguard is singlehandedly bringing up her children, which brings up Questions of ethics and human existence crop in the interrogation. It is worth noting that Delecroix’s follows Kierkegaard’s philosophy which also is centred on existentialism and incorporates ethics. The second part is the drowning from the point of view of one of the refugees, Again existentialism comes into play as the main protagonist is aware of his situation and knows it may not end well. The piece concludes with his drowning. The third part is a philosophical meditation of the sea, the way it is deceptive and yet a snarling beast. I was reminded of Iris Murdoch who also wrote about water’s duality in her novels, namely The Sea, The Sea and The Nice and the Good. Small Boat is the type of book that burns into your consciousness. The migration situation is a topical one and Delecroix manages to examine it from many angles without being melodramatic or emotionally exploitative. In 112 pages, there is enough thoughts , theories and discussions with keep a lot of readers happy, and most importantly, it functions as a great story as well. Many thanks to Hope Road for providing a copy of Small Boat.

If there’s one book that feels essential right now, it’s this one. Bring empathy back.

Small Boat immediately captivated me with the voice of its narrator, a very tired naval officer who answers and deflects calls for help from a doomed boat carrying migrants across the Channel. Her decisions may have resulted in the deaths of 27 of the 29 passengers aboard that boat, but is that really her fault? Should she feel guilty? If she’s not to blame, then who is? These are the questions Small Boat brilliantly grapples with. The premise of her defense is built upon the notion that empathy is a luxury for those not called upon to act. But the problem isn’t merely that she lacks empathy; it’s that she holds active disdain for the people she is tasked with rescuing. Though I reject her worldview, I’m still forced to ask myself: what would I have done? Would I have acted differently, more compassionately, more bravely? Or would I have collapsed into the same institutional logic, using policy and jurisdiction as my shield? Part II shifts to the perspective of the migrants themselves, and is a devastating counterweight to the narrator’s cruel detachment. The narrative abruptly shifts to the raw and harrowing experience of suffering and death. This section explicitly shows the human cost of the narrator’s decisions, and the decisions of those like her. The novel does not excuse the narrator, but it contextualizes her, locating her within a network of failure in which some people are so thoroughly dehumanized that their deaths become routine. The narrator is not a monster; she is, rather, the expression of a monstrous system in which we all live, and to some extent, all participate; as the narrator hauntingly notes: “One person has to drown in order for another one to breathe properly.”

Small boat, small book. Big horror, big impact. Quite frankly, my first reaction when I heard about this book was that I must have got it wrong. How can such a serious subject be approached within so small a page count — a mere 122 pages, to be accurate? Then, on second thought, it is not really a novel. It is a philosophical novel. And believe me, once you get into it, you just can’t put the book down until you reach the end, which I guess is exactly what the writer wants. It should also be said that the case is now on trial in France. One might say better late than never, but this is how justice works there. Because of how the French judicial system operates, it always takes years to build a case — but the French seem to be fine with it, so what can one expect. Anyway, to get back to the book: yes, it is short, but it wouldn’t be any more powerful if it were longer. In other words, Vincent Delecroix goes straight to the point and asks the right questions, sparing no one in the process. Of course, the point of view of the drowning migrants on their fast‑sinking small boat makes for poignant reading. But what strikes me most in this story is the attitude of the French coastguard radio operator (a fictionalized real‑life character). She sounds so blasé and so cruel, especially when she implies that these migrants had it coming, after all. She is so cynical, only too eager to pass the buck to her British counterpart. Her line of defence is to claim that the sinking of the small boat was nothing if not a foregone conclusion from the moment the migrants decided to move to Europe. And that’s how what the French call un fait divers — a short news item lost in the constant media flood — opens up into a whole set of much bigger issues our Western societies are grappling with. The late French comedian Coluche used to say that “human tragedy is not on a human scale.” In his own way, and much more seriously, Vincent Delecroix brilliantly reminds us that the aphorism is still true today. Misery is on a human scale, which is precisely why it is tragic.

to write from the perspective of a character we're all meant to hate, to be angry with, to disagree with, to say "how could she? how could she say something like this? how could she not care? how does she ignore it?" and then to have it all reflected back onto you in the final pages. if one is guilty, are we all guilty? we can say that we are better people because we have empathy compared to someone who lacks it. but what if the person that doesn't bring empathy brings a helping hand instead? which is more valuable? you want both. everyone wants both, but if you can only have one— would you like my empathy, or my help? i loved what the author did with this story. in a short number of pages you are sent on an emotional rollercoaster and forced to ask questions about you, me, everyone, morality, responsibility. an incredible, incredible work. i have 2 more in the shortlist to go, but this is my winner for the intl booker prize this year.

My goodness this book will stick with me. Re-read the last sentence too many times to count. Absolutely recommend for a highly uncomfortable but thought provoking read.

Wow ! Everyone should read this book. A reminder of how society STILL doesn’t see migrants and refugees as actual human beings. Made me sad and angry, so at least it was a short book

A very important book I never want to have the discomfort of reading again. “When did the sinking begin” is a phrase now stuck in my head, and will probably be ringing in it for a while. This complex character, who at first will engender disgust and hatred, will upon reading this book, throw a mirror up to yourself. She is the scapegoat of the world’s indifference, the woman who did not save 28 migrants from certain death. She is culpable, just as the rest of the world is, who refuses to jump in the sea and save the drowning, including you.

One of only a handful of books you read in your life that change the way you think and have a lasting impact. Speechless

Every so often you’ll read the most mindblowing book that stops you completely in your tracks and your heart sinks to your stomach the entire time you’re reading it. This was that book for me. Ever since I finished it, I’ve been thinking about it constantly.It’s a small novel, but wow does it pack an absolute punch. Sometimes translated fiction can be a little choppy, but the writing and translation here was absolutely gorgeous. The language was absolutely cutthroat and scathing, it felt so immersive and spine chilling. It doesn’t shy away from the grittiness and the rawness of reality. I think Delecroix definitely exceeded what he was setting out to achieve here, it was such a powerfully moving and upsetting narrative that dug its claws into me and wouldn’t let go. So haunting and human and unbearably sad. I think the character exploration here was fascinating, and the different angles dissecting the events were so clever. It’s a book that poses so many questions, and lets you sit and contemplate the answers. I think this is one of those books everyone should read in their lifetime. Extremely uncomfortable but necessary. And I was so horrified to find out that it’s a fictionalised account of something that actually happened in 2021. Heartbreaking.

Idk how this didn’t win; I loved it! I had such visceral reactions to this. Very timely. Super short. Read it! 8/9: changed this from 4 to 5 stars bc I cannot stop thinking about it.

A sobering reflection of our times. Stunning.

I only picked this up because i wanted to get back into reading in french and wow it was always on the back of my mind even when i wasn't reading it. The narrator is incredibly unreliable and avoidant and i felt like diving into her fog of excuses for a clue of what was actually happening. I think it did a very good job at keeping the ambiguity of the main character's motives and it prompted all these questions about accountability, blame, the concept of rescue and who is saving who (en estos tiempos q nos están tocando vivir). The middle part about the boat sinking was SO powerful and never a sunrise felt so heartbreaking godddd so i guess....5 störs

I love that it was a lot deeper and more philosophical than I expected at first. Really makes you think about human conscientiousness and moral responsibility

“You have to wonder what goes through the mind of a man like Micah Mortimer.” He’s a rather ordinary man but I’ve said it before and will say it again....Anne Tyler is one of the few authors who can write about the ordinary in an extraordinary way. Micah is a middle-aged perfectionist. His days are regimented. Everything must be strictly scheduled, orderly and perfect in his world. “Maybe he was one skipped vacuuming day away from chaos.” But people are messy and Micah often misses social cues. Is it any wonder that he struggles with his relationships? "Sometimes when he was dealing with people, he felt like he was operating one of those claw machines on a boardwalk, those shovel things where you tried to scoop up a prize but the controls were too unwieldy and you worked at too great a remove." Unexpected events and a surprise visitor threatens to upset his orderly life and causes him to look at the world differently. At first glance Micah is annoying and goofy but Tyler treats her subjects with such understanding and compassion, with a side of wry humor that endears her characters to us. I won’t ruin the surprise but I loved the meaning behind the title. It’s all about perspective and his inability to see things clearly. He tries so hard to not get it wrong but ends up getting it all wrong. “The only place I went wrong, he writes, was expecting things to be perfect.” Poignant yet hopeful, perhaps there is hope for Micah’s rigid OCD heart. Coming in at just under 200 pages, this is a quiet, charming story with surprising depth that is sure to please Anne Tyler’s fans. It’s one I could have happily started over and read again, and for that I bumped it up to 5 stars.

I can't think of a more comforting writer than Anne Tyler. There's something reassuringly familiar about her work, which is very satisfying during a time of fear and uncertainty. For Tyler fans (we are a loyal bunch), Micah Mortimer, the protagonist of her 23rd – TWENTY-THIRD!! – novel, might seem familiar, too. There are shades of The Accidental Tourist's Macon Leary about him, or Breathing Lessons' Ira Moran or The Amateur Marriage's Michael Anton. He's a 40-something bachelor who's both the superintendent of a small north Baltimore three-storey building and the owner of a computer repair firm called TECH HERMIT. Hermit is an apt word. Micah, who lives alone and is the only employee of his company, likes routine and order, is slightly eccentric – he often speaks in a mock French accent, and imagines a Traffic God commenting on his impeccable driving skills and etiquette – and can't quite see what's right in front of him. In fact, the title is a reference to this bad sight – both literal and metaphorical. During his morning jogs, he runs without his glasses so he can't make out details, constantly mistaking a fire hydrant for a short little "redhead by the side of the road." When two things disrupt his life, he is suddenly, inexplicably unmoored. First, his "woman friend" Cass ("he refused to call anyone in her late thirties a 'girlfriend'") tells him she may be evicted, and his chilly response makes her question their relationship; then a young college student shows up at his doorstep, claiming Micah is his biological father. Tyler makes both of these incidents full of absorbing drama. Micah is, at heart, a decent, well-meaning guy, but he's really inept at reading people, especially women. The appearance of the student, named Brink, makes him think of Brink's mother, whom Micah dated in college. This gets him wondering why his relationships have never gone anywhere. While her plot is concerned with resolving both of these storylines, Tyler effortlessly fills in the book with other details: all the customers Micah has to deal with are distinct, relatable and memorable; he also interacts with several of the landlord's tenants, including a middle-aged woman who's constantly on the lookout for dating prospects. And in the middle of the novel, Tyler presents one of her magnificent extended family scenes, in which we meet Micah's boisterous sisters, taciturn brothers-in-law and other relatives and we begin to understand how and why he turned out the way he is. The novel is only 200 pages, but it's so full of life and human truths that it expands in your mind. It's smaller-scaled than Tyler's masterpiece, the ambitious and transcendent Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant. But it's just as wise, just as observant, and just as comforting.

Full disclosure, and borrowing from Stephen King’s “Misery” – but not in a CREEPY way - I’m Anne Tyler’s biggest fan. I think she’s the Jane Austen of our time. So it’s no surprise that I was poised to love her newest novel, “Redhead by the Side of the Road”, and love it I did! I read it in one day with that familiar push-pull of wanting to both devour and savor…think of a thick slice of your favorite cheesecake. Micha Mortimer is a 40-something handy man with a “side gig” called The Tech Hermit – a business offering personal IT/Tech help to the public. He’s written a manual called “First, You Plug It In”. I guarantee, most of us will see something of ourselves in Micha’s clients! Tyler’s strength is in her character development. We are privy to Micha’s thoughts, but we know when he’s totally miss-reading a situation. We know what Micha’s long-term girlfriend is getting at when she tells him that she’s afraid of being evicted from her apartment. But sadly, Micha is clueless; Micha doesn’t always see things as they are – hence the titular “redhead by the side of the road” - I won’t spoil that delightful detail! Micha’s family has labeled him “finicky” and a “fussbudget”, and I admit that some of his habits resemble my own (I prefer the term “organized”). The Mortimer family will remind readers of many of Tyler’s trademark families: “Like most families, the Mortimers believed that their family was more fascinating than anybody else’s.” How universally true is that? The fact that we love Tyler’s families is because we often see our own reflected. This description hit home with me: “As a rule, conversations in this family didn’t so much flow as spray up in bursts here and there, like geysers…” This too-short-I’m–not-ready-to-let-go, novel is BRIMMING with characters, some of whom we only know for a few pages. Only Anne Tyler can make you fall in love with, or be annoyed by, or detest, a character in such a short time. Creating rich and interesting characters (I refuse to say “quirky” because Tyler herself says “Aren’t we all?”) Now, THAT’S TALENT. Tyler fans will delight in this perfect story, and for anyone reading this review who has yet to read an Anne Tyler novel, this is a perfect one to start with! You are in for a treat!

Very short, very good; loved it. We are introduced to Micah Mortimer: "YOU HAVE TO WONDER what goes through the mind of a man like Micah Mortimer. He lives alone; he keeps to himself; his routine is etched in stone." His family says this about him: “Uncle Micah’s kind of…finicky.” He has a 'womanfriend' who he is not close to. One day, a young man shows up at his door: Brink Adams. Brink thinks Micah is his dad. Brink's mom was Micah's girlfriend in college. . Why did I like this story? To me, Micah was not as wierd as the reader might first think. I found myself agreeing with him more than the other characters. The other characters seemed dysfunctional; Micah made sense. I have not always cleaved to Anne Tyler's books. This book changes my experience. I finally met a character of Anne Tyler's that I like and whose story I appreciate. 5 stars

This is classic Anne Tyler, whose books share a unique quality in which no shocks are present, but by the end, the main character is transposed in a way they didn't see coming. Take the case of Micah, the Tech-Hermit of Baltimore, an OCD semi-loner who comes from a family consisting of four rambunctious sisters and complete chaos. His life rolls along as (he thinks) he wants it to, but several forces converge and voila, a little of the chaos he experiences comes in his back door. There are several set pieces that made me laugh out loud, but for the most part, it was a quick, satisfying, lovely read.

A possible Booker winner A coming-of-age novel, a surprisingly tender love story that, at the start, reminded me of my first read of Call Me by Your Name. I think it isn’t easy to create a suave gay love story set in adolescence, especially in a place like Malaysia, where gay people face even more struggles from society. But Tash Aw writes about believable things. His attention to his characters made me want to spend more time with them - and I’m not even talking just about the two protagonists. I’m really curious to meet again all the characters, and thankfully, this is only the start of a series. I want to see them grow up, make controversial decisions, love each other, and experience how the changing world affects them. Finishing this book reminded me of finishing My Brilliant Friend, and I can only say that I have big hopes for the next instalment.

This is easily the best of what I've read coming out in 2025 so far. This is the first novel I've read by Tash Aw, and as it is the first in a planned quartet, I somehow doubt it will be the last! Set in Malaysia, in an undisclosed time, we follow Jay, our protagonist, and his two sisters and parents, as they head out to their recently deceased grandfather's farm for the summer. It's no secret that the farm is a failure, with droughts and floods being a common occurrence, the land has very little worth other than sentimental value. Looking after the farm, is Fong and his son Chuan, who Jay immediately takes a shine to. What follows isn't just a touching gay coming-of-age story, but also a glimpse into the different generations of this family - how the grandfather came from China to Malaysia at a young age and bought a piece of land to have something to call his own, something to pass down to his children and their children, somewhere to lay his bones after he passes. For a relatively slim novel, it tackles some big themes, highlighting the devastating effects on the climate thanks to the capitalist West, confronting the racism within Malaysia against the Chinese, opening your eyes to 'brand name causes' like the Amazon taking precedent over these smaller, invisible countries. But more than anything, it gives a window into the different characters within this family and what each of them might be concealing. I loved the way Tash Aw plays around with perspective and time, revealing things on his own time, colouring everything you've just read. There are some beautiful descriptions and lines that I highlighted, of the landscape, the birds, the light, of first love, of that secret sense of self we all have. I won't say more for fear of spoilers. But I'm so looking forward to seeing where Tash Aw will take us in the second book of this quartet.

I honestly thought this was breathtaking. A quiet beauty. Enjoyed being with these people. *Didn’t expect to feel this way because of everyone’s muted response since it hit the Booker longlist.* Hope to review later.

It is not often I read a new novel in the year it is first published but I am extremely glad I did with 'The South' by Tash Aw because not only is the novel first rate but I have discovered an author I must read more by. It seems redundant to say this is a brilliant novel, but it is. I have absolutely no intention of rehashing the novel's story - you can find that in the publisher's blurb on GR or elsewhere - but I will be talking about what the novel is about. First off it is about as far from a 'gay' or LGBT+ novel as it is possible to be. That doesn't mean there aren't 'gay' characters (but only in terms of their sexual desires) do we even believe in 'gay' characters outside ridiculous M&M romances? But the 'gay' boys just are - there relationship has no role in the story outside of itself - (I have no intention of dropping spoilers in my review. Either things need to be said or they don't and I want to keep details as opaque as possible so as not to reduce anyone's enjoyment of this novel). What the novel is about is family, its complexities between husbands and wives, parents and children, siblings and others, it is about heritage, were we belong, how heritage is a resource and a trap - really the novel is about so much and that is set amongst a Chinese family Malaya only adds to the richness and complexity. All I can do is praise the novel again and again. It is as complex as the author's background - read a bit about him and try to pigeon hole him - it is short but incredibly rich and resonant with a view on old themes from a new perspective. Not that we haven't had novels from what we in the UK would refer to as Commonwealth writers exploring the themes of their own countries and cultures but this novel moves way beyond those first generation novelists and their attempts to explain. Nothing is explained never mind excused or justified, it just is. Wonderful, first rate novel from a talented writer.

.5 stars for writing 1 star for plot 1 star for characters 1 star for setting 1 star for liking it This is the best novel on the longlist that Ive read yet. Im looking forward to the other 3 that are slated to follow this novel...the characters are compelling.

This si the first part of a quartet and I already know all four books will grace my shelves. And grace is an interesting word for me to have plucked--the prose is graceful but not chilly, graceful and sexy and fun like a Madonna backing dancer circa 1998. ‘Light a match and the whole country could go up In flames’ says Jay, the narrator--a city boy who has arrived at the scrappy family farm his parents fantasise about improving. He is ‘Not exactly failing not exactly succeeding at school.’ He feels his own bodyh is similarly average. His parents think he needs to tough up a bit and that working with the other boys on the farm may help. Chuan is the son of the farm manager and used to ourdoor work. He is at ease in his skin. He smell,s to Jay, of a cheap sort of deodorant that was ‘is unpleasant’ mixed with sweat ‘but which I still breathed in.’ Jay notes the ‘sharp indentations of his hip bones, slim nose and clear eyes.’ The pair fall in love and it is an easy fun, young love of a sort we are often in queer fiction. Any pain or shame they feel occurs when they encounter the world outside the farm, 'boys' usually. We see Jay and Chuan swimming, riding on a motorbike together and dancing in the sort of regional gay club I remember well from my own years of self-discovery. The farm is failing, the country is falling apart, the whole region is in an economic depression and there is a strong sense of forboding. Climate change is happening all around them. But it is only reported insofar as it intrudes on their own little world. That's the brilliant, and terrible, narcissism of young love. As a narrator, Jay dips into the past and other perspectives, giving us glimpses of the future for him ans his family. What of him and Chuan? We have to wait and see. I interview Tash Aw on the new series of books tv show The Big Scottish Book Club. On BBC Scotland and BBC iPlayer from August 28th.

4.5 stars, rounded up The minute I saw that this book was longlisted for the Booker Prize, I immediately picked it up and began reading. And I might just have the same taste in books as the judges this year because so far I'm loving the longlist!!!!!! https://beltonsbookshelf.substack.com... This was exactly the kind of book I needed this summer. Of course, I've read some good books over the summer, but none of them were good enough for me to give them 5 stars until this one. Although it's ever so close, with me giving it a 4.5 stars and rounding it up, this is easily one of the best books I've read this summer. It's so atmospheric and sensual and so incredibly lovely, I found myself so immersed in this world and in this family and in each POV. Although the center of the novel could arguably be the intimacy between Jay and Chuan, it seems like the entire family is the focus, and that's also what I appreciated. But let me start with the two lovers. Tash Aw beautifully and perfectly captures the yearning and desire between Jay and Chuan, how Jay focuses on a lingering touch or the intoxicating scent of his cheap deodorant, and it's just so addicting to read. I loved reading about the romance between these two characters, although Tash Aw does a wonderful job carefully explaining the parts he wishes to share, and holding back on what he wishes the reader to imagine by themselves. It's also extremely clear that it's not just Chuan's physical appearance that Jay is attracted to, but how Chuan makes him feel, how he takes care of him, how they're able to connect on a more intimate level, how Chuan makes him feel seen and understood, how they act when they're alone together. I think a lot of queer lit (especially queer romance novels, at least the ones I've read) tend only to focus on the physical attraction between two lovers, but this one delves deeper than that, and I loved it so much. I think explaining the intimacy of being understood is so much sexier than the physical intimacy between two beings. But Jay is still trying to discover who he is, and how a man should act. What is a man, and why isn't he one yet? His battle with his identity is one of the most raw, most beautiful things I have ever read, and I'm sure it'll resonate with a ton of readers (myself included). At times, I felt the book to be a little bit too YA (which is why I marked down my rating by a meager 0.5 stars, but still I would no doubt argue for 5 stars), especially the conversations between Jay and Chuan, and how Chuan was depicted in the beginning, but it was such a minor issue that I easily let it go. This novel is so much more than just a love story, though. It focuses on the rest of the family and their struggle of inheritance, who gets to own the land, and all that jazz. The parents' problems are complex all on their own, and it made reading this book such a pleasant experience. Money becomes a huge problem; the farm is clearly losing profit because of its condition and how the trees are not bearing any fruit, and Fong is still connected to Jack because of money, despite their desires to be separated. There are also discussions on social class, capitalism, consumerism, etc., as huge companies in the West like Amazon are coming to smaller countries like Malaysia and ruining their land; as the West continues to grow richer, they destroy the environment, and in that process, it's not necessarily the West that feels the greatest effect of their problems, but it is these smaller countries, such as Malaysia, that do. This book is supposed to be the first novel of a quartet, and I'm so excited to read the rest of the series, although I felt like this book was great as a standalone. I'm so happy that this book was nominated for the Booker Prize—it was well deserved!!! I cannot recommend this book enough. Tash Aw's writing is absolutely to die for. I need it injected in my veins. Ok bye!!!!!!

Uh, we need more! Tash Aw packs a punch with this gorgeous novel of first love & family drama. Excited for the next book in an apparent quartet.

Get the Tissues Ready Bill Furlong is living a quiet, unglamorous life in Ireland. He has a happy life with his wife and five daughters. They have enough to eat and aren’t living on credit. The town has known hard times, factories are closing up, and people are being laid off. Mr. Furlong is making ends meet though, delivering fuel in the form of coals and logs to the townspeople. One day, near Christmas, he makes a delivery at convent when he discovers something that doesn’t sit quite right with him. If you enjoy It’s A Wonderful Life or the story of The Good Samaritan, you will love this book. This story took hold of me early on. It is set in Ireland where times are hard, economic depression is settling in. Like so many small towns, people are struggling to get by, and people are being driven from their homes, heart wrenched, into the cities to find decent jobs. This book is a short read but will stay with you for so much longer. 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Threads BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

Small but mighty! Quietly understated yet screaming to be heard! I adored this book and can't wait to re-read it and anything else Claire Keegan publishes. So gorgeous.

It was a December of crows. People had never seen the likes of them, gathering in black batches on the outskirts of town then coming in, walking the streets, cocking their heads and perching, impudently, on whatever lookout post that took their fancy, scavenging for what was dead, or diving in mischief for anything that looked edible along the roads before roosting at night in the huge old trees around the convent. The convent was a powerful-looking place on the hill at the far side of the river with black, wide-open gates, and a host of tall, shining windows, facing the town. Bill Furlong is a decent man, risen from a lowly station in life to being a respected pillar-of-the-community sort. Not well off, mind, but a coal and wood supplier who keeps several folks employed, his customers supplied, and his family fed, a George Bailey sort, but from a much less settled foundation. There is never much left over, and always a new cost looming on the horizon. In the course of making his rounds he sees something that presents a powerful moral challenge. The story is Furlong’s struggle to decide, stay silent, or do something. Claire Keegan – image from her FB page – shot by Cartier-Bresson 1985 is a grim time in New Ross. Ireland is in the midst of a long recession. Despairing of ever finding work, people are emigrating in droves, to England, to America, to wherever work can be had. Those who remain hold little hope for any near relief. Those with work know that they could be laid off in a heartbeat. Those running businesses know that their continued survival depends on the continued demand of their customers, and the customers’ ability to pay. Those without work drain their savings, survive on the dole, or accept what charity they can find. Too many, employed or not, drown their fears in drink. Keegan captures the bleak tone of the time. the dole queues were getting longer and there were men out there who couldn’t pay their ESB bills, living in houses no warmer than bunkers, sleeping in their coats. Women, on the first Friday of every month, lined up at the post office wall with shopping bags, waiting to collect their children’s allowances. And farther out the country, he’d known cows left bawling to be milked because the man who had their care had upped, suddenly, and taken the boat to Fishguard. Once, a man from St Mullins got a lift into town to pay his bill, saying that they’d had to sell the car as they couldn’t get a wink of sleep knowing what was owing, that the bank was coming down on them. And early one morning, Furlong has seen a young schoolboy eating from a chip bag that had been thrown down on the street the night before Christmas is coming, and one might wonder if that starving boy was a descendant of Tiny Tim’s. Keegan even summons A Christmas Carol to mind, noting that, as a boy, Furlong had received the book for Christmas. Cillian Murphy as Bill Furlong – image from The Telegraph– Credit: Enda Bowe/Lionsgate He had had a difficult start to life, raised by a single mother, his father not known to him. Luckily for them, a well-to-do local woman, Mrs Wilson, took in mother and son, employing mom to work in the house. Things could have been a lot worse. Like many other nations, Ireland was host to a network of Magdalene Laundries. These were institutions run by the Catholic Church, with the complicity of the Irish government. Young women who became pregnant were often cast out of their communities, their families even, and these enterprises took them in. Reports eventually emerged revealing the abuses these girls and young women endured, often being forced to give away their babies, living in degrading conditions, essentially forced laborers in church-state workhouses. Thousands of infants died there, and many of their mothers as well. New Ross was one of the places where a Magdalene laundry was run. It is one of the reasons Keegan chose to set her story there. This is not a tale about these laundries, per se, but one of those constitutes the immediate and very considerable dark force that Bill Furlong is thinking about taking on. While delivering coal to the convent, he sees something he was not supposed to see. To act or not to act, that is the question. Why were the things that were closest so often the hardest to see? The language of this novel, the imagery is powerfully effective, celestial even. I felt a need to read a lot of this book out loud. (trying to avoid spoiling it with my terribly fake Irish accent) There is a rhythm, a musicality to the writing that propels its powerful imagery towards the intended targets. Emily Watson as Sister Mary – image from Digital Spy The passage quoted at the top of this review offers a sense not only of a grim time and place, but of the hostile force of the nuns, priests, and the Church, as embodied by the crows. The state, participant in the Magdalene miseries, is given passing notice when a local pol parachutes into town for a Christmas-tree-lighting, if it is possible to parachute in while riding a Mercedes and wearing a rich man’s coat. This is a town that is not being well looked after by the authorities. When she was 17, she went to New Orleans. “I got an opportunity to go and stay with a family there, and then I wound up going to university. A double major in political science and English literature.” She remembers well what Ireland was like the year she left. “I really wanted to get out. It was 1986. Ann Lovett had just died. I felt the darkness that is in Small Things Like These. I felt that atmosphere of unemployment, and being trapped maybe. And things not looking so good for women. "My parents used to go dancing, and I used go with them, down to the pub. I remember everybody getting really drunk at the bar on a Sunday night. "I remember looking at all the men at the bar – it was pretty much all men at the bar – and they were getting drunk and saying they couldn’t bear the thought of going back to work in the morning. And then others would say they didn’t have any work in the morning. - from the Independent interview When she returned home with her degree, Keegan sent out 300 resumes and did not get a nibble. Erin go Bragh. The harsh times have not driven from people in New Ross the ability to want things, needed or not. Furlong’s wife, Eileen, wants a proper, going-away vacation, as well as some nice things seen in a shop window. His children have small, mostly manageable desires. The people in town want an end to economic doldrums, some reason to stay around instead of emigrating. The residents of the convent want something more significant. Furlong is in dire need of a new truck to replace the one his business relies on, and which is nearing its last gasp. He also wants to know who his father was. Of late, he was inclined to imagine another life, elsewhere, and wondered if this was not something in his blood; might his own father not have been one of those who had upped, suddenly, and taken the boat for England. He is no saint, but is a workaholic Furlong has that rare capacity to look inside himself critically, consider his life, his actions, in light of his values, even recognize where he might have stepped away from the moral line he believes in following. He had opted to ignore wrongs he had seen before, but for this father of five girls, and son of a single mother, this is a tough one to let pass. However, there are powerful, and insidious forces arrayed against his better angels. He is repeatedly warned, when he mentions his concerns, that crossing the Church could be extremely costly. The cold of the season will make you shiver and want to add another layer as you read. Some Irish coffee might help as well. Will Furlong cross that bridge and do something or let what he knows sink into nothingness in the dark, frigid waters of the Barrow River below? You will want to know, and will read on until you do. Keegan is mostly known as a short-story writer. She has won many awards for her work, which is marked by compactness, showing what needs to be shown to tell her tale. Do not dismiss this novel for its brevity. Small Things Like These is huge! You may not need to prepare a manger with fresh hay, but I would definitely make room for this novel in your collection this holiday season. It is an evocative, beautiful, moving novel that deserves to become a Christmas classic. As they carried on along and met more people Furlong did and did not know, he found himself asking was there any point in being alive without helping one another? Was it possible to carry on along through all the years, the decades, through an entire life, without once being brave enough to go against what was there and yet call yourself a Christian, and face yourself in the mirror? Review first posted – November 12, 2021 Publication date – November 30, 2021 The film was released on November 8, 2024 I received an e-ARE of Small Things Like These from Grove Press in return for a fair review, and a few lumps of coal. Thanks, folks, and thanks to Netgalley for facilitating. Bless you, every one. This review has been cross-posted on my site, Coot’s Reviews =============================EXTRA STUFF Links to Keegan’s personal, FB, and Twitter pages On her personal site, there are links to, among other things, two of her short stories, in the Links tab. Interviews -----The Guardian - Claire Keegan: 'Short stories are limited. I'm cornered into writing what I can' by Sean O’Hagan - 2010 -----New Ross Standard - Claire’s novel examines cult of silence in 1980s New Ross by Simon Bourke – April 2021 -----Claire Keegan: ‘I think something needs to be as long as it needs to be’ by Claire Armistead -----Independent.ie - Writer Claire Keegan: ‘I think stories go looking for their authors’ by Emily Hourican -----The Writing Life - Claire Keegan and the art of subtraction by Terence Patrick Winch – video – 28:29 – from 2013 – re her short stories Items of Interest from the author -----The New Yorker - Foster - this is an abridged version of her award winning story -----Hollihoux – a reading of Foster by Evanna Lynch Items of Interest -----NY Times Bookclub - Let's Talk About Claire Keegan's 'Small Things Like These -----The Charles Dickens page - A Christmas Carol - the full text -----BBC - Irish mother and baby homes: Timeline of controversy -----Wiki about The 2005 Ferns Report on sexual abuse of children by priests in the Diocese of Ferns -----The actual report -----Wiki on the Magdalene Laundries in Ireland -----Report of the Inter-Departmental Committee to establish the facts of State involvement with the Magdalen Laundries -----George Bailey -----Ann Lovett

My Reviews Can Also Be Found On: The Storygraph and The Book Review Crew Blog Claire Keegan's Foster is one of my favourite books, it still resonates with me more than fifteen years later. This story is less than 130 pages but boy does Keegan ever pack a lot into those pages and she manages to make the ordinary extraordinary. This one takes place at Christmas time in 1985. Bill Furlong is our main character, he is a humble timber merchant and father of five daughters. Furlong is a simple man but has a good heart and we see that when he makes a delivery to a convent that also happens to be an unwed mother laundry. We have all heard the stories of the Magdelene Girls so I won't go into that but at the convent, Bill observes some of the unwed mothers and notices their harsh treatment by the Catholic church. This touches Bill because of his own mother giving birth to him unwed and only sixteen. Bill and his mother were lucky, she had a compassionate, female employer. Bill realized these girls could have been his mom if it weren't for her good fortune of having a supportive boss. For one lucky girl at the convent, Bill becomes a saviour and as they say, not all angels have wings. All. The. Stars.

1985 + Ireland + Christmas = Prime spot on Regina’s Must Read list In fewer than 120 pages, Claire Keegan has crafted a touching, memorable story about a working-class father of five young girls who reflects on the choice between doing what’s right versus what’s easy. Despite being born into the world under less-than-ideal circumstances, life turned out okay due to the generosity of others. When he discovers a teen in dire need of a saving from the Catholic Church’s cruel (and very real) Magdalen Laundries, will he have the gumption to jeopardize that “okay” existence to step in and embody generosity himself? What a truly inspirational story this is, and one that makes for perfect reading during the Christmas season, or any season really. For me it’s the message rather than the method that will stick with me though. Some readers may find the literary, dialect-heavy writing too cumbersome, but sticking with it and pushing on to the heartwarming end is so worth it. Small Things Like These is destined to be a classic novella that begs to be read by its fans year after year. Why not start with this one? 4.5 stars My heartfelt thanks to the author and Grove Press for the opportunity to review a gifted copy via NetGalley. Small Things Like These is now available and can even be found on the Hoopla library app. Blog: https://www.confettibookshelf.com/

January 2024 - I already wanted to re-read this book, and (unsurprisingly) I thought it was brilliant! September 2023 - A small book with a big message. Every word was perfectly placed, and every line was beautifully written. Greatly looking forward to reading more from Claire Keegan.

I’ve had two books by Claire Keegan on my to read list for a while now. After reading this beautifully written novella, I want to be sure I read those others now. This is a work of fiction but it brings to light some horrible abuses on young girls and women in “schools” or “homes” run by the Catholic Church in Ireland. * It’s the story of an honest man, a good man who works hard to provide for his wife and five daughters. Always restless, a little worried about the future, but in many ways, his past is with him daily, still wondering who his father was, and still thankful for the opportunities afforded him by his mother’s employer. He makes an awful discovery one day just before Christmas in 1985. It shakes him to the core and tests his moral sensibilities with the fate of one young girl and perhaps others hanging in the balance. This is the kind of story that when I read the first gorgeous sentences I knew that if nothing else, the writing would hold me. “In October there were yellow trees. Then the clocks went back the hour and the long November winds came in and blew, and stripped the trees bare. In the town of New Ross, chimneys threw out smoke which fell away and drifted off in hairy, drawn-out strings before dispersing along the quays and soon the river, dark as stout, swelled up with rain.” But it was so much more than just the prose that held me. It was Bill Furlong who is one of those characters who make you want to be a better person. *(Magdalen Laundries. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magda...) I received an advanced copy of this book from Grove Atlantic through NetGalley.

Now shortlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize. 3rd in my longlist rankings (and my top ranked book to make the shortlist) - my Bookstagram rating, ranking, summary review and Book themed Golden Retriever photo is here: https://www.instagram.com/p/ChKBUTts0... A gem of a novel and one which was just as good on a post Booker longlist re-read. It also thankfully acts as a counter example to two if the most pernicious trends in literary fiction: that quality is correlated to length and literary merit to being transgressive or misanthropic. It was also winner of the 2022 Orwell Prize for Political Fiction (from an incredibly strong shortlist) and 2022 Kerry Group Irish novel of the Year having previously been shortlisted for the Folio Prize - its length making is sadly too short for the Women's Prize. Hilary Mantel, Colm Toibin and Damon Galgut all picked in the New Statesman Book of 2021 feature. ORIGINAL PRE PUBLICATION REVIEW 9/21 A strong 2022 Prize contender. Was it possible to carry on along through all the years, the decades, through an entire life, without once being brave enough to go against what was there and yet call yourself a Christian, and face yourself in the mirror? Claire Keegan is an award winning short story writer, publisher of two short story collections. One of her most famous and lauded stories “Foster” was later expanded by her and published by Faber and Faber as a hugely acclaimed novella. This her fourth book is also best thought of as a novella – on winning the rights to publish it Faber I felt captured it beautifully as “an exquisite wintery parable” – and although I read this book at the end of August I think it would make an ideal Christmas gift or holiday reading – it almost has something of the nature of “A Christmas Carol”. The book is spread over less than 100 generously spaced pages – but I imagine for this author that is something of a wide canvass on which to paint, and she manages to capture brilliantly a man (his difficult past, his ostensibly happy present, but also his sense of disquiet and finally his decision to take a stand on a point of principle regardless of the cost), the difficult history of a nation and its infamous Magdalen Laundries and to make a timeless fable. And all of it rendered in pitch perfect prose. The book is set in Ireland in late 1985 – the third party protagonist is Bill Furlong who runs a successful coal and timber business. Bill was born to a single mother in 1946, who was taken in by the widow for who she had been working as a domestic. Bill was mercilessly teased at school for his status and lost his mother at 12, but had some stability from the widow and her farmhand who acted as something of foster parents to him – the widow then giving him some capital to start a coal and timber business. Now Bill is married and the father of five girls – the oldest two of which already attend the well-regarded local Catholic school. Bill at the time of the book is strangely disquieted at the poverty he sees around him (rather to the dismay of his wife who seems him as a soft touch) – but his crisis comes when he visits the local convent (which is also a laundry) only to be shocked by the mental and physical condition and predicament of some of the girls he sees there. The reassurances of the nuns and the warnings from both his wife and other women, firstly that the girls are undeserving and secondly not to take on the establishment power of the Catholic Church (not least due to the repercussions for his other three daughter’s chances of being accepted in the school) serve only to spur him on. Overall this is a beautiful book - and a perfect Christmas present. My thanks to Faber and Faber for an ARC via NetGalley

In a Nutshell: A brilliant novella that throws a powerful punch at some misguided members of the Catholic religious. Story: 1985. A small Irish town grappling with the cold weather and the dead economy. Bill Furlong, a coal and timber dealer, is facing a busy season with the dip in temperature. While on his coal delivery rounds to various locals, his past comes back to confront him and he is faced with a dilemma: should he allow his faith or his feelings to dictate his decision? The entire story centres around the character of Bill, and there couldn’t have been a better hero for such a story. A loving husband, an involved father who wants to provide the best education to his five daughters, a practical businessman who is hands-on about his work, and most of all, a human being who doesn’t allow religious loyalties to blind him from their abuse of power. If you need only one reason to read this book, it should be for Bill, and to see how even one person can make a change if he/she is willing to. But that’s not the only reason to go for this read. The book is a revelation on the abuse of power by some members of the Catholic Church. It is sad that some of the so-called religious consider themselves the right hand of God and hence free to do as per their will. Even though Jesus himself told us to pray "thy will be done", these zealots twist scriptures as per their own requirements and work to rectify the “flaws” in the society, blind to everything except their own ideologies. The book throws light on what deplorable things these people did under the guise of religious laws. No religion teaches hatred; it is human misinterpretation and ego that results in such shameful occurrences. I loved how the book tackled the topic sensitively and honestly. The content doesn’t go over the top and yet packs a powerful punch. The writing is subtle yet impactful. The ending might feel a bit abrupt but I feel it ended on a beautiful note, at the right juxtaposition of hope and courage. I’ve never been to Ireland, nor have I interacted with any Irish citizen (as far as I know. My GR friends are from all over the world!) All I have heard of the country is from books and newspapers. And every source confirms it to be strongly Catholic. As a Catholic myself, I liked this connection. Until the day I discovered how rigid the imposition of their Catholic beliefs could be. On 28th October 2012, Savita Halappanavar, a 31 year old dentist of Indian origin living in Ireland, died of septicaemia when medical staff at a local hospital denied her request for an abortion (following an incomplete miscarriage) on legal grounds. I couldn’t believe the idiocy of this rule. How could a “pro-life” law not consider that the mother’s life was at risk and the foetus had already crossed the point of death? Thankfully, that’s a thing of a past and the only good thing to come out of that sad incident was that the Irish laws with respect to abortion were modified. (Only partially, but it's a step in the right direction.) The Savita Halappanavar case showed me that religious dogma rules over common sense and humanitarian feelings for some Catholics, especially for those in the church and the government. (The recent Texas abortion law confirms the same thought.) But much before this 2012 incident, there existed the Magdalene laundries. (These were not restricted to Ireland alone; these “safe houses” existed by different names in various countries including England and USA.) If you think that this was an old system, you won’t be entirely wrong. The Magdalene laundries came into existence around the mid-18th century, ostensibly to house “fallen women”, but actually catering to any girl who were found guilty of engaging in sexual activities or becoming pregnant outside of wedlock or even for girls unwanted by their families. These girls were required to work in harsh conditions for their food and board, and their babies were given away forcibly. What is sad is that they existed, even thrived, right up to the late 1990s. What is even more shameful is that these were mostly run by nuns belonging to the Roman Catholic order, and quietly supported by the state. The irony of calling them “Magdalene” laundries isn’t lost on me. The “laundry” obviously referred to the washing loads that the inmates did as part of their work. And the “Magdalene” in the name comes from Mary Magdalene, Jesus’s disciple who is known in Christianity as a reformed prostitute though the Bible never refers to her as such. Just like Mary Magdalene wasn’t a whore, the inmates of these “Magdalene laundries” were innocent. As we have just entered the season of Advent, it is a right time to take stock of things that matter. And this book shows, in multiple ways, what matters the most. We must not lose our humaneness, and we must not use scriptures as a way of imposing our beliefs on others, rather as a way to be united with others in this journey of life. Jesus’s beautiful adage of “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you” is something long forgotten by many Christians; high time we resurrect that thought and implement it with vehemence in our lives. This isn’t a Christmas book at its core, and yet in many ways, it is the best Christmas book to read. 4.5 stars for the writing, the historical relevance, the plot, and for making me think so much that it took me three days to review this. My thanks to Grove Atlantic, Grove Press and NetGalley for the ARC of “Small Things Like These”. This review is voluntary and contains my honest opinion about the book. *********************** Join me on the Facebook group, Readers Forever! , for more reviews, book-related discussions and fun.

"Small Things Like These" by Claire Keegan is a short read/listen concerning a horrific topic that everyone should know about! It's the winter of 1985 in a small Irish town where Bill Furlong lives with his wife, Eileen, and their five daughters. Bill, a coal merchant, takes a delivery to the local convent where he makes a shocking discovery that he brings to the attention of the convent's Mother Superior. When he leaves the convent, he chastises himself for being passive about his discovery as he knows what's really happening inside those walls. Bill was born to a young unwed mother that was spared from the horrors of this convent. His mother's generous and caring employer took his mother under her wing and provided a refuge for both Bill and his mother against the nightmare their lives could have been. Doing what's right is important to Bill even under the threat of retaliation from the powerful Roman Catholic Church, the entity that dictates to the community-at-large. Bill can't look past the reality in front of him any longer! This story is in reference to the Magdalen Laundries or asylums run by the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland. Unwed mothers who were considered to be a disgrace to their families and communities were sent to these facilities operating as forced labor laundries until September 1996. Unbelievable! How is it possible that as a Roman Catholic I had never heard of the Magdalen Laundries? What rock was I living under? This is only one story and just a glimpse into the shocking reality of the abusive horror that took place until the late 20th Century! I want to thank my GR friend Peter D. whose wonderful review brought this book to my attention. Everyone should know about the outrageous and intentional cruelty that led to multiple deaths of both woman and children in Ireland. I highly recommend this 1 hour and 37 minutes audiobook expertly narrated by Aidan Kelly! 4.5 stars!

Our holiday stories are so cloyingly flavored with sugar plums that Claire Keegan’s Christmas novella tastes especially fresh. At the opening of “Small Things Like These,” one immediately senses that Keegan is breathing something vital into the season’s most cherished tales, until, as gently as snow falling, her little book accrues the unmistakable aura of a classic. The scene opens in New Ross, on the coast of Ireland. In just a few pages, the town rises up in all its picturesque antiquity with a web of economic and social tensions thrumming beneath the surface. It’s 1985, and New Ross is enduring a grinding decline. With businesses shuttered, the dole lines are long and the houses cold. Those who can leave have already skipped abroad looking for work, life. Keegan’s Everyman hero is Bill Furlong, whose past and present she sketches with such crisp efficiency that the brush marks of her artistry are almost invisible. Furlong knows he’s. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...

Wow, no one gets under your skin and into your heart like Keegan does, with such succinct writing.... the flurry of emotions she can evoke is incredible!

I knew this was going to be a tough read because I read something from the author at the back of the book after the end of the novella which imparted some information about the subject matter of the book. The writing was superb. I read her short story ‘The Forester’s Daughter’ in February of last year and gave it 5 stars. I have two of her other works on my library shelves, ‘Antarctica’ (1999) and ‘Walk in the Blue Fields’ (I read it in 2007 and gave it an A-). I am glad this novella is getting the acclaim it deserves. Both for Keegan and to call attention to something which never should have been swept under the rug. What is heartening is that (spoiler> Bill Furlong in this novella did not sweep things under the rug at the novel’s denouement. Reviews: • https://www.npr.org/2021/12/22/106578... • 20 reviews in this link... https://bookmarks.reviews/reviews/all...

Incredible how much can be told on 110 pages. This tiny novel is an icy and heartwarming epic about coldness and warmth and about learning to look into the mirror. It is very rare indeed to read such precise and effective prose, in which every detail counts.

“People could be good. … Always, Christmas brought out the best and worst in people.” In many ways this is a Christmas story about a man named Bill Furlong, and a girl named Sarah, and how their lives intersect. Thoughtful, hard-working, Irishman, Bill Furlong wants what is best for his wife and four daughters. Born of a single mother, into a simple life, never knowing who his father was, he longs to do what is right for his family. It is just before Christmas, and he and his wife know what their kids want from Santa. But what does Bill want for himself? And what happens when Bill comes upon a convent that he is delivering coal and logs too, and finds girls locked in slaving away? How is he to feel? Or a road he does not know and is told, “this road will take you wherever you want to go son.” There is so many ‘small things like these’ that Bill contemplates but does not understand, even as he addresses all of this with his understanding wife, Eileen. Her response, ‘where does thinking get us?’ Even with a soft-heart, readers could feel as Bill did, that things were just not right in his world, and there was a helplessness he could not change. There is a restlessness and melancholy to Bill as he continues to lament and contemplate who is father could be. And, he still feels a sense of concern about what is going on at the convent. Could it be abuse of these girls? There is much to experience in this short little book. Keegan’s prose is thought-provoking and poignant. Her characters sympathetic and well-developed. Her plot heart-warming and moving. Readers can’t help but feel hopeful for Bill Furlong, and what he hopes to accomplish for someone like Sarah, and his own family. He truly is a memorable character. One you want the best for in the end. Be sure to read the author’s ‘a note on the text’ for more information about true Irish history. I’d also like to encourage you to read my Goodreads friend, Darla’s amazing review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...

What makes a classic Christmas story? When I think about some of the most well-known Christmas tales such as “A Christmas Carol” by Charles Dickens or the short story 'The Greatest Gift' by Philip Van Doren Stern (which inspired the film 'It's a Wonderful Life') or the Christmas sections of “Little Women” by Louisa May Alcott, the predominant festive themes concern homecoming and a spirit of generosity. Claire Keegan's new novella “Small Things Like These” fits right into this tradition while also providing a stealthy dose of powerful social commentary. It's 1985 in a small Irish town and in the lead up to Christmas, Bill Furlong, a coal and timber merchant is very busy making deliveries to members of the community. Life is hard with the demands of work and family, but he and his wife have a strong partnership raising their five daughters. On Bill's rounds to the local convent - which is one of his best customers - he discovers something extremely distressing about the “training school for girls” which the nuns run there. It leaves him questioning whether he should intervene and how much he's personally willing to risk in order to do what he feels is right. For such a brief book, this story says so much. It's filled with perfectly-pitched descriptions of physical details and dialogue which bring this humble community to life. There are evocative scenes of preparing a Christmas cake and a festive celebration. At first it feels like a highly supportive environment, but gradually we become aware of the sinister meaning behind what is not said. There's a conversation Bill has with his colleague Mrs Kehoe where she states “Tis no affair of mine, you understand, but you know you'd want to watch over what you'd say about what's there? Keep the enemy close, the bad dog with you and the good dog will not bite. You know yourself.” Though it feels like Bill has a clear moral choice to make there are social and financial pressures which make his decisions much harder. Read my full review of Small Things Like These by Claire Keegan at LonesomeReader

If Paul Lynch’s “Prophet Song” were a horror novel, it wouldn’t feel nearly as terrifying. But his story about the modern-day ascent of fascism is so contaminated with plausibility that it’s impossible not to feel poisoned by swelling panic. I woke up three mornings in a row from nightmares Lynch had sown in the soil of my jittery brain. “Prophet Song,” which won Britain’s Booker Prize on Sunday, describes how the fibers of political decay get caught in the lungs: the wracking cough of tyranny precedes the illness, the horrible death. But rather than survey the whole body of governmental putrefaction, Lynch focuses on the travails of one woman struggling to protect her family in Dublin. Eilish Stack is a respected microbiologist, a mother and the wife of a union leader. After a long day of work, she craves only a spot of peace and renewal. But if you remember the first line of “1984” — “It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen” — you’ll hear the opening of “Prophet Song” as a sepulchral echo: “The night has come and she has not heard the knocking.” That knocking in the nighttime, the implacable salutation of the KGB and security agents the world over, is the first in an uninterrupted series of perversions of. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

Paul Lynch’s Prophet Song is a gripping novel that pulled me right into the abyss. It received widespread acclaim as soon as it was published and even won the 2023 Booker Prize. The book tells the story of a mother trying to keep her family alive as society collapses around her. When the “end” times come knocking, the world is in chaos - land is ripped from the ground, the sun still shines, yet everything is in darkness. What makes this novel so powerful is how Lynch uses poetic language to capture the clash between personal reality and looming disaster. It’s razor-sharp, almost like the teeth of some giant beast, making for a reading experience that’s both unsettling and deeply affecting. But rather than taking a straightforward, realist approach to depicting suffering, he crafts a chillingly original vision of Ireland slipping into totalitarian rule and eventual collapse. The book vividly captures the nightmare-like quality of living through such a catastrophe. where fear, disbelief, and resistance all exist at once. In a way, the apocalypse here isn’t some natural disaster; it’s man-made. And it feels eerily local, disturbingly close to home. Potential Spoilers Ahead! The novel is set in Ireland. After an unnamed epidemic, the ruling National Alliance Party (NAP) enacts an “Emergency Powers Act” under the guise of responding to an ongoing crisis. What follows is unrest, civil war, and a refugee crisis. The novel isn’t about politics; it’s about what happens inside a person’s heart at a given moment. Reading it, I sometimes felt trapped inside the protagonist Eilish’s mind, experiencing her fear and anxiety as the world crumbles around her. The claustrophobia is suffocating. Eilish is a scientist. Her husband, Larry, is the deputy secretary of Ireland’s teachers’ union. They live a comfortable life with their 4 children in a house with a garden on the outskirts of Dublin, planning an Easter vacation to North America. Then, 1 night, there’s a knock at the door - 2 officers, their faces barely visible, asking for Larry. “A knock at the door” is a classic literary device, signaling suspense and an impending shift. The officers are polite, even reassuring, but after they leave, Eilish senses that something invisible has seeped into her home. With this eerie, understated moment, Lynch sets the stage for a national nightmare - where small, personal sensations foreshadow a massive, uncontrollable collapse. A few days later, Larry disappears after attending a teachers’ protest. More and more people around Eilish - colleagues, neighbors - are taken, vanishing without a trace. Yet even then, Eilish’s focus isn’t on the turmoil outside - it’s on her family, on survival. She has to keep the fridge stocked with milk, get the kids to school, care for her teething baby and her aging father, even as curfews are imposed, mobs attack her car, and bombs fall on their home. Her father, Simon, a fellow scientist, is one of the first to sense how bad things are getting. Despite his dementia, his warnings to Eilish are clear: You have to leave with the children. But leaving means abandoning everything, uprooting her entire life. She stays. She has no choice. In times of crisis, people rarely grasp the full scope of the disaster unfolding around them. They cling to their routines, unable to see the bigger picture. Eilish convinces herself it’s all temporary, that if she just opens the back door, things will return to normal. She ignores her father’s advice, choosing instead to wait - for her husband, for her son, who later joins the resistance. Until, finally, when there’s nothing left to hold onto, she joins the flood of refugees. She closes her eyes and sees everything that has been swallowed, everything she has lost. She is just a body now - no heart left, just swollen feet carrying her children forward. Prophets have always wandered the earth, singing their warnings, casting shadows over history. There’s nothing new under the sun - crises repeat, as if humanity shares a collective nightmare. Prophet Song is, in many ways, a prophetic novel. It doesn’t just show destruction; it makes you feel its urgency. It suggests that history is a cycle, that similar tragedies will keep happening, generation after generation. And yet, absurdly, people will keep ignoring them, burying suffering and bloodshed in the ground. What humanity learns from disaster is about as much as a lab rabbit learns from lab test. But maybe - just maybe - this bleakness is also the starting point of awareness, of resistance. The title itself suggests that the prophets’ lament never truly ends. The disasters of 1 era are just the beginning of the next crisis. Real change hasn’t come yet. But even so, individuals still have to take responsibility for their fate - because that’s the only way redemption can ever happen. Lynch’s writing always begins at the edge of despair. He shows us powerless individuals who refuse to surrender, who still hunger for justice and dare to fight for it. He forces us to see a world dominated by horror and destruction, to witness humanity struggling in its cracks. In his stories, human nature is pushed to its extremes. no longer just a concept, but something raw and exposed. His novels aren’t just about historical facts; they tap into something deeper, something timeless. Whether it’s 19th-century tenant farmers, famine survivors, wartime refugees, or intellectuals in a collapsing Dublin, their fate is the same - being uprooted, displaced, forced to search for meaning beyond the world they knew. By the time I turned the final page, I felt like I had just come up for air after being underwater for too long. It’s not an easy book - it doesn’t offer comfort, closure, or even a clear path forward. But that’s exactly what makes it so powerful. It lingers. It unsettles. It demands to be reckoned with. I think Lynch doesn’t just want us to witness the collapse of a society - he wants us to feel it, to live inside it, to understand, even in the smallest way, what it means to lose everything. And in doing so, he reminds us that the world we take for granted is far more fragile than we’d like to believe. Maybe that’s the real prophecy of Prophet Song. It’s not just about a distant, fictional Ireland - it’s about us, right now, wherever we are. It’s a warning, yes, but also a challenge: What would you do? How far would you go? What would you be willing to lose before you finally decided to run? And maybe the most unsettling question of all: Would you even realize it was time to go before it was too late?

Winner Booker Prize 2023 " History is a silent record of people who didn't know when to leave." Prophet Song kept me up reading late into the night. It is an emotionally draining novel with Orwellian themes and scenes that propel the reader forward with the intensity of a Hitchcock film. In a dystopian future, Ireland's far-right National Alliance Party (NAP) comes to power. To maintain order, they create a secret police with supplemental powers that strip citizens of their fundamental rights. The story centers on the impact of the new order on a middle-class Dublin family, the Stacks; Eilish, a microbiologist; Larry, an official in the Teacher's Union of Ireland, their four children; and Eilish's aging father, who is struggling with dementia. The nightmare begins when secret police attack a peaceful teacher's rally for higher wages. Larry and other union officials are arrested and disappear. Legal due process starts to erode, and the NAP replaces people in jobs nationwide with party hacks, causing Eilish to lose her job. Lynch chronicles Eilish's struggles to keep her children and aging father safe as the nation descends into a violent civil war, and they become refugees. At first, I found Lynch's writing style difficult to follow. There are no paragraphs, and he doesn't use conventional indicators for dialogue. Scenes proceed without interruption until a gap appears, indicating a new section's start. However, once I grew accustomed to his style, I found his writing had almost a cinematic flow that drew me deeper and deeper into the nightmare. Prophet Song is a powerful novel as it crystalizes the trauma that so many people worldwide are experiencing. In an interview, Lynch stated that two competing sentiments motivated him to write this novel. First, he is troubled by the lack of empathy for refugees, which he feels is prevalent in the West. Lynch also wanted to explore how much agency individuals possess in times of societal collapse. He succeeds on both fronts. Prophet Song is a mesmerizing, provocative read. I highly recommend it.

I’ll be shocked if this isn’t on the Booker shortlist. I think it might just win the whole damn thing. By far, the bleakest and most intense read on the list. The most horrifying journey. And there’s a pivotal moment that caused me to break down and cry. Damn. When I first picked up this book I assumed it was about the Troubles, but then I slowly realized it was a modern-day dystopian, which imagines Ireland becoming a Fascist state. And of course, things become terrifying at an accelerated speed. Bad things start happen, really bad things keep happening. But as a reader, you should always be aware that the type of atrocities that occur in the book are already happening elsewhere in the world. So, as much as this content may seem unimaginable, “the end of the world is always ending over and over again in one place but not another and that the end of the world is always a local event.” Written in claustrophobic prose that manages to place you in a “no-way out” situation. It all feels so oppressive as it should. What a read!!

I had never forgotten that spring when the world began to fall apart. People kept saying there would be no war, ignoring the dead bodies in the streets flashing across the news, the villages in flames, and the unrelenting howls of the dogs of war. My mother left for work in the morning only to be turned back by armed men at the barricades. My father disappeared on his way home from a police shift. No one knew where he was while he was digging trenches because some local thugs decided he wasn’t patriot enough. I remember the knocking on the door and the two men in uniform. My father was on the front line, and their arrival could only mean one thing. My mother pulled me by the hand; the hospital smelled putrid, and I felt sick, but the man in the bed wasn’t my father—it was his brother. Wounded, thankfully. My father returned one night, a stranger in a filthy uniform reeking of tobacco and gunpowder, his hair unkempt, his beard long. Dark eyes, void of light. Was this man my father? Paul Lynch said that "Prophet Song" is an attempt at radical empathy inspired by the civil war in Syria and the images of refugees. Perhaps this book affected me so deeply because I have lived through so much of it—scenes that seem as though they were lifted straight from my life. My mother, like Eilish, chose to stay to keep her family whole. My father returned, but many did not. I was Bailey, the defiant one, the one who, through the dust of a grenade explosion that had taken the top floor of the house we were in, saw his mother breathlessly running to get him, calling his name through the ringing in his ears. I survived. Many did not. In Lynch’s Ireland, set in the near future, a far-right party declares a state of emergency. Anyone who speaks out against the regime disappears. It’s a story we have heard and seen many times before, even today, across the world. It seems that many European nations—and even those across the Atlantic—may soon face the same fate. Eilish waits for her missing husband. Her father is demented, with only fleeting moments of lucidity. Her eldest son escaped and joined the rebels. Her middle son resents her. Her daughter stands by her while the youngest child remains blissfully unaware of the horrors unfolding around them. Eilish clings to hope, refusing to believe that the world is changing—and not for the better. She is one of those who say, “There will be no war,” ignoring the signs. She moves through it all like a mute observer, speaking little, but crying as only a mother can cry. Who could blame her? Why believe that your government would want to harm you? Why? Because of religion? Skin color? Nationality? That’s not the case here. They are all Irish. Their political beliefs differ, but is that enough reason to drag people into the dark? To torture children and throw them onto piles of corpses, identified only by numbers? Lynch’s style is poetic, filled with powerful imagery. Despite his choice of long, often unconventionally structured sentences, with no paragraph breaks or clear separation of dialogue, his writing has rhythm. He writes a prophet song, but for whom? For Ireland? For the rest of the world? Lynch has not predicted anything new nor revealed anything we do not already know, but his expression is potent. His imagery strikes like a punch to the gut, stealing the breath away. His words choke in the throat, suffocating in tears before they can be spoken. There are too many harrowing moments to choose just one, but there is a scene in this novel that will leave no reader untouched—where we feel every one of Eilish’s tears, every scream, every sob. A scene as emotionally powerful as the one with the mortuary in Ondaatje’s Anil's Ghost. Every word of praise for this novel is deserved. Read "Prophet Song".

This book was written and published at just the right time, by just the right person. Lynch’s writing style added a raw energy to this story that propels this book from the horrifying story that it is, to a raw and emotional journey that we take along side this family. I only hope enough people read stories like this to understand how fragile a comfortable world is.

The most powerful, moving and urgent novel of 2023, Prophet Song is a novel I will never, ever forget, and would be a deserving winner of The Booker Prize. Ireland is in the grip of a government that has lurched to the right, cracking down on protest and breaking trade unions. When Eilish's husband, a trade unionist, is disappeared, it starts a chain reaction that slowly and cruelly chips away first her rights, the her freedoms, and later everything else. All the while, Eilish tries to keep her four children safe, and plot some kind of future for her fractured family. Lynch's masterpiece begins as a Kafkaesque nightmare that soon spirals to ever more desperate depths. On the one hand, this is a dystopian tale worthy of comparison with Saramago's Blindness, McCarthy's The Road and Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale. But, by the end, it becomes a novel that should awake those in these isles and beyond to the fact that the only difference between you and those people you see on the news, those suffering in brutal situations in far-flung places, is luck.

Fucking hell. If this is not the next Booker prize winner, I’m not sure the judges actually read the books they are supposed to.

Longlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize. Now shortlisted!!! A peaceful march and strike by members of the Teacher’s Union is the catalyst for Ireland to descend into a state of totalitarianism run by a ruthless right-wing government. To put a stop to the teachers, the National Alliance Party invoke the “Emergency Powers Act”, throwing the constitution out the window, gifting their newly formed secret police almost unlimited power. The horror of Ireland’s descent is personalized by the Stack family. It starts when two members of the new Irish Secret Police, the Garda National Service Bureau, arrive in the night looking for the protagonist’s husband. Larry is the deputy general secretary of the Teacher’s Union of Ireland. When he is interviewed, he is told that allegations have been made about him. Allegations that he is behaving like “someone inciting hatred against the state, someone sowing discord and unrest”. In other words, his behaviour is seditious. The march goes ahead but is brutally suppressed by the police. Horses, tear gas, and batons are used to batter the marchers into submission. Her husband, along with many marchers, is never seen again. As I said before, the Stack family are used to show what happens to the citizens of Ireland as their rights are slowly taken away. Civil war breaks out and the government bomb their own cities. Society and the economy break down. Electricity disappears. Water no longer runs when a tap is turned. What makes this novel so alarming, so fearful, is that it is set in Ireland and that it is so believable. The deeper you get into the story, the more believable it becomes. The next time you watch a peaceful constitutionally protected march for whatever cause, this novel will whisper in your ear “what if?”. Living in a cozy peaceful democracy, this book is a slap in the face. A warning shot, and a reminder of just how lucky living in such a state is. Also, a reminder of how easily with the right (or wrong) people in power, this state can be taken away. It is a reminder that conditions like this are a horrible reality for much of the world’s population today. “the end of the world is always a local event, it comes to your country and visits your town and knocks on the door of your house and becomes to others but some distant warning, a brief report on the news” A brilliant, and important novel which reminds us never to say “it can’t happen here”.

The language in this book is what makes it so spectacular. It completely fits the subject matter. Lynch renders this story of a totalitarian government in Ireland into something so oppressive, so claustrophobic, so completely paralyzing, that a reader is forced to recognize that the situation in the book is actually universal, and could readily happen to anyone at anytime. Very, very powerful. All that being said, the unrelenting misery of it all, doesn't make for a necessarily happy reading experience. I admired it more than I enjoyed it. The portrayals of the children in the story were so much stronger than that of the mother . . .but I did think the way the mother was written was realistic and justifiable. I wanted her to be a different kind of champion for her family, but honestly, I can see why that wasn't even a possibility. It was more realistic than uplifting and empowering. And I appreciate that on some level . . .the author recognized that all people are powerless in the face of a situation like the one he describes. It's a fallacy to pretend otherwise.

This book broke me in many ways. I’ll never be the same 😭

Prophet Song is what I would describe as an absolute banger. This story of the rapidly accelerating decline of democracy and the emergence of a totalitarian state in Ireland is real heart-in-your/mouth storytelling. As implausible as the premise first seems, as the freedoms of democratic citizenship are stripped away in this story, it becomes evident that is really the point- this is happening to people who believe it couldn’t happen to them, and that the international community won’t let it. And yet… I realise all this makes it sound very didactic, but the deeply personal storytelling which centres this narrative so closely on one nuclear family makes it anything but. One of the most compelling books I have read this year.

I have to say that I was so deeply involved in this novel that after finishing it late one night, I could not sleep while it ran through my head. full post here, no spoilers: https://www.readingavidly.com/2023/09... As with more than a few books I've read recently, Prophet Song drew my attention by way of this year's Booker Prize longlist, from which it has now moved on to the shortlist. This book was such a powerful read that it made me cry at the end, and that does not happen every day. Briefly, a group known as the National Alliance Party has come to power in Ireland, and under the pretext of combatting the "ongoing crisis facing the state," it has issued the Emergency Powers Act. About a week later, the Party replaced the regular Secret Detective Unit with the Garda National Services Board (GNSB), who are in control of the "maintenance of public order." One person here refers to them as a sort of "secret police," which he notes, does not exist in Ireland, but given everything that is to come, is very likely a more realistic description. As this story begins, it is two GNSB detectives to whom Eilish Stack opens her kitchen patio door one dark night, asking for her husband Larry, who is not home at the time. They ask her to have him call when he returns, telling her that "it is nothing to worry about." Eilish has no idea what this is all about, but she does have a feeling that "darkness has come into the house," something that she sees "skulking alongside her as she steps through the living room past the children." It is this darkness that ultimately turns to nightmare as it descends on the family's lives,and as the government works to consolidate its hold on the people through whatever means necessary, she and her four children find themselves caught up in horrific events as they become part of a "society that is quickly unravelling." Yet, it is not only society which is "unravelling" here -- the most powerful moments of this novel focus on Eilish as the situation takes an immense and unspeakable toll on each member of her family, leaving her to make some extremely painful choices in order to protect them and above all, to ensure their survival. While what happens here is set amid a "government turning toward tyranny," to think of Prophet Song as simply another work of "dystopian fiction" does not do this novel justice. That turn toward tyranny has happened, and more to the point is happening somewhere at sometime in our world, a reality with which we are all familiar, as well as a point strongly highlighted when the author writes "... the prophet sings not of of the end of the world but of what has been done and what will be done and what is being done to some but not not others, that the world is always ending over and over again in one place but not another and that the end of the world is always a local event, it comes to your country and visits your town and knocks on the door of your house and becomes to others but some distant warning, a brief report of on the news, an echo of events that has passed into folklore ..." Throughout the novel, the author uses the present tense to not only communicate the ongoing changes that occur in the process, but also the very nowness of the situation, which is one factor in making this book so harrowing, and his examination of the lack of freedom of agency, as he notes in an interview at the Booker Prize website, "when caught within such an enormity of forces" is another. By the time I got to the the ending, which actually flips the story back on the reader, I was absolutely in tears, thinking not just of Eilish but of real-world mothers who have experienced some of the same terrors described here and who have somehow summoned the courage it must have taken to make the same kind of unbearable decisions, and quite frankly, who have come to a point at which they feel they must gamble everything to protect their families under similar conditions. I loved this book and cannot say enough good things about it; this story will haunt me for some time and it is one I most definitely recommend.

“She rubs her thumb along his jaw wondering what it is a child this age can know of the world, the odour of fear on her body, the child growing to know the smell that cannot be wished away nor suppressed, the child absorbing the mother's trauma and storing it in his body for later use, the child become adult stricken by dread and blind anxiety, lashing out at those around him, she is holding a damaged man in her arms.” A novel of societal collapse and the destruction it causes starts to hit a little too close to home due to the earths current political climate. This will have you in tears by the end. Eilish Stack is stuck in a crumbling tyrannical Ireland desperately grasping to keep her family together. Her husband, a trade unionist, gets brought in for interrogation and thus begins a story of a woman trying to glue her family together whilst her world around her is literally falling apart. A Booker prize winner, and from the first 20 pages you’ll realise exactly why . Writing so emotive, beautifully entwined and compelling it feels like a whole new language.

At first, I wondered if now was the right time to read this book, with conflict all around us; having read it, now almost seems too late. There are barely any breaks in the paragraphs, which adds to the pervading claustrophobic atmosphere. Needless to say, this tale is bleak. The writing is, however, exceptional. It shines a light on the plight of refugees in war torn areas of the world, BUT the setting for this story is the Republic of Ireland. Just think about that.

the perfect nine is a PERFECT read, i cant find anything that i dislike about this book. its about 99 suitors who arrive on gikuyu and mumbi’s land, seeking to marry their beautiful daughters called The Perfect Nine. the parents ask their daughters to choose for themselves but to choose wisely. the daughters along with the suitors then embark on an unexpected journey together - a pilgrimage to the holy mountain, following the paths of their parents. i came across this book randomly and didnt regret reading it a single bit. its my very first time coming across a very unique style of writing – it was written in an epic poem from african origin and focuses on african folklore. honestly im not really into folklore/myths but i guess its the way how ngugi writes, that makes it such an enjoyable & easy read. also just shows how talented he is as a writer, its my first time reading his work and i am already in love!!! i love the fact that its such a short read yet focuses on a lot of other things too like female empowerment, hope/fear, courage and the importance of having a family/siblings. my favourite character is warigia, whom is disabled and was cured later by her siblings who successfully hunted a ‘miracle cure’ for her. “disability of the body does not mean disability of the heart and mind. the heart and mind rule the body” – pg 211 had so much feelings for this book but i mostly felt encouraged and moved after finishing the whole story. ugh i just love everything so much that i didnt want it to end. i think some readers might not be able to fully appreciate the story but i would still highly recommend if you are willing to experience a different kind of writing style with a great story.

As Homer did for the Greeks, Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o does for the Gĩkũyũ people, using epic poetry to convey morals by way of gripping stories that are rich in both action and symbolism. The story revolves around a slew of suitors who travel from near and far with interest in the gorgeous and talented daughters of Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi – the daughters being the titular “perfect nine.” [Lest one take the allusion to Homer too far, the problem faced in this story is not how to be rid of the suitors, but how to find the best of them and have the daughters each have a husband she desires. Also, in the case of this myth, the answer to the question of how to deal with the suitors is not to murder them all -- on the contrary, discouraging the use of violence as a problem-solving tool is among the major morals taught throughout this work.] I’ve long been meaning to read works by Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o. I have a policy of reading literature from each country I visit, and when one looks into literature from Kenya his name stands above all others. He’s not merely one of the major figures in Kenyan literature, but of African and global literature as well. However, before I got around to reading one of his novels, I was lucky to have the opportunity to read his latest work, which is due out in the fall of 2020. The story takes the Nine and their prospective suitors on a journey of adventure that will test their mettle as they carry out a mission, traveling through perilous territory that Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi once traversed, themselves. As in Greek and Norse Mythology, the enemies are often supernatural, as is necessary given how capable the Nine are shown to be. Most of the suitors – certainly the ones that live through the early adventures -- are no slouches themselves. The morals that are conveyed through the story are non-violence (whenever possible), opposition to misogyny and patriarchal norms, a variety of virtuous attitudes and actions, and a kind of tribal attitude. By tribal attitude, I don’t mean tribalistic in the sense that that they suggest attacking or even denigrating those of other tribes, but Gĩkũyũ and Mũmbi insist that all the suitors and daughters live nearby -- with none allowed to return to the homeland of the suitors. However, as this plays out in the latter part of the story in a way that I’ll leave to the reader to discover, there is an opportunity for learning that modifies the strong tribal norm. [It also leads to the teaching of another important virtue which is to avoid the “you’re dead to me” attitude that one often sees in stories when two parties are at loggerheads.] I was fascinated by this work. Because -- in the manner of mythology -- it has some preliminaries to get through at the start, it felt a little slow out of the gates. [Though it was much quicker to delve into the adventure than were the early chapters of “The Odyssey” in which Telemachus goes out looking for his father.] So, don’t worry, the story gets into a taught journey of heroes in no time. I highly recommend this book for readers of fiction and mythology.

Loved this story!

Maybe I'm biased because this is the story of my people but I'll say with my whole chest that this bangs! I laughed, I teared up, I celebrated, I learnt some shit and had an all round good time.

This is a review for me, really, not one that would persuade anyone to read this Epic, tho you all should enjoy it as I have. I'm writing this as a reminder to me, of beautiful words, and of 2020, this epic year of both chaos and silence and struggle and consistency and surprises and love. p.102: "Wanjiku reminded us that every good thing is born of challenges, that / Problems always trigger strong disagreements on causes and solutions, / But talking about the problems is the best way to heal differences. / Waithira also tried to lift our hearts with words of hope, saying that / A task remains a task only when it has not been done, that starting a task / And enduring the challenges are good, but completing it, should be our guide. / Reminding us that joy drives sorrow away." p. 201: "'You have done well to let me know your heart.' Gikuyu said. 'For it is true, the word locked up inside cannot win about argument.'"

The founding stories of the Gikuyu people of Kenya, told and re-told for millenia, presented by Kenya’s current preeminent novelist. These epic tales concern Gikuyu and Mumbi, a married pair whom God - Giver Supreme - drew to the peak of Mount Kenya through incredible hardships and tasks, and who then bore the Nine Beautiful Daughters, and then a tenth beautiful daughter to make up the Perfect Nine. These daughters become the mothers of the historic clans of Kenya, when 99 suitors from around Africa are drawn to them through dreams and visions of their beauty. These suitors compete in various tasks to win the sisters, and eventually go on a quest with the sisters to reach the top of the mountain and to steal a healing hair from an ogre. Many of the men are killed in the quest by various dangers. The obstacles on the quest seem to represent various ethical challenges one faces in life, and the virtues required to overcome them. Light overcomes darkness, rain overcomes fire, courage over fear, hope over despair and sorrow, wisdom over greed. My personal favourite is the Ogre That Shat Without Stopping (an underutilised superpower) who could only be defeated with fresh flowers. It is most often the Nine Daughters who overcome the Ogres, and they are very much presented as more than equals in every way to their suitors in these tales.

It's quite a challenge for a new book to use a device from a classic novel in a way which feels both relevant and entirely fresh. George Orwell's “Animal Farm” brilliantly satirised the Russian Revolution of 1917 and Stalinism in the Soviet Union by anthropomorphizing barnyard animals who fight to free themselves from the tyranny of their human farmer only to find themselves ensnared in an equally oppressive system. At first I felt skeptical that NoViolet Bulawayo used this same format by applying it to the 2017 Zimbabwean coup d'etat, but as I continued reading I discovered how this is a forceful and heartfelt way to update and expand upon Orwell's allegorical novella. In Bulawayo's story Old Horse has been ruling the country of Jidada for forty years until he is suddenly ousted from power and a new regime takes control. Though the general population is presented with a simulacrum of a #freefairncredibleelection not much has changed where those in power rule with an iron fist, the economy deteriorates and many ordinary citizens continue to suffer. In doing so she captures the way language and political rhetoric can be weaponized to control a population and shore up power in our modern era. It's a book that succeeds in how it refers to specific historical events and describes the way all systems of government can abuse their power. It's a sweeping epic that evokes the plight of a nation and an intensely personal story about an expatriate's return to the chaos of her country. It brings to the centre the lives of women and girls who struggle under an oppressive patriarchal system. Moreover, it's a funny, heartbreaking, horrifying and utterly bewitching tale that I fell in love with. Read my full review of Glory by NoViolet Bulawayo at LonesomeReader

Absolutely absurd. And I ate it all up.

For me, this book landed in an interesting way. I like modern architecture . . .and when I see it, I love it in many, many forms. But if I happen to see, say, Cathedrale Notre-Dame . . .yeah, it's not modern, but like WOW, right? That's exactly how I felt about this book. I don't like satire as a general rule, and this book was certainly satirical. And I hate magical realism, and this book had touches of that. And usually, I like stories that are told in straightforward language, but with original telling details that say it all. And this book was more like a super talented preacher was giving a brilliant sermon - - rhythmic and repetitive (in a good way) and more lush. And all I can say at the end, is wow. Did I like it? Well, I wouldn't want this to be my everyday reading experience, and I wouldn't necessarily seek another book like it out. But when you stumble upon something masterful, you know.

2022 BOOKER PRIZE LONGLIST CHALLENGE At the end of September, Zimbabwean author, Tsitsi Dangarembga, shortlisted for the Booker Prize only a couple of yeas ago, was convicted for daring to hold a placard up at a demonstration, which calling for political reform and the release of political prisoners. The Zimbabwean regime of President Emmerson Mnangagwa came to power after a coup displaced Robert Mugabe on the promise of rejecting the repressive measures of the Mugabe government, but little has changed and the dreams of structural change in post-colonial Zimbabwe remain unachieved. The end of Mugabe’s rule and the excesses of Mnangagwa are the backdrop to NoViolet Bulawayo’s searing satire, GLORY, that pulls no punches in a wildly imaginative novel whose rhythmic and polyphonic prose explodes off the page. Bulawayo was previously shortlisted for the Booker in 2013 for her debut WE NEED NEW NAMES and returns with a sophomore novel even more ambitious. The novel begins as the fictional nation of Jidada in a world ruled by animals as it celebrates the birthday of its elderly and near senile leader, an old horse, who helms a regime that self-deludes about its grandeur, and expects enthusiastic and unquestioning support from its “children”. We are introduced to the forces at play, the political competitors trying to maneuver themselves into place as the old horse nears death, the masses who chant reverence but slyly mock a regime unashamed of its corruption, and the violent forces of the state preparing to hasten the transfer of power. When the old horse is removed the nation celebrates in hope of renewal but those are quickly dashed as the usurpers of power have quickly squashed any hope of that and speed up their pillage of the nation’s resources as the mass of animals suffer. But in the wake of possibility, a young goat, Destiny, returns to Jidada to discover the truth of her family history and to give voice to the dead long disappeared. While GLORY offers a thrilling account of the ongoing political struggles of post-colonial people (or animals as may be the case), it is the force of the prose that makes this book magical. The initial introductions are done with the rhythm and cadence of demagogic speeches. The accounts of the masses are told through Tweets and WhatsApp posts, a wide array of hopeful, cynical and sycophantic quips battling each other for influence. The voices of the regime are laced with cynicism as absurd actions of pure robbery of the nation’s wealth are justified. The haunting and tragic accounts of disappeared, the victims of the regime, are emotionally wrenching. Bulawayo’s ability to shift tone and style is inspiring writing and delivers a complex work that while serious does not shy from humour, that is cynical but offers in the end an inspired hope. So will this win the Booker next week? We will see. It is definitely my favourite of the shortlist but I’ll be evaluating each novel’s chances in a post over the weekend.

GLORY: NOVIOLET BULAWAYO An immersion in recent Zimbabwe history, the fall of Robert Gabriel Mugabe and the phoenix-like rise of his nemesis Emmerson Munangagwa whom the people looked to as their saviour, this is Glory by Noviolet Bulawayo. With the fall of Mugabe, the people of Zimbabwe were free at last and set on the path of unity and renewal. Or so they thought, after years of pain and suffering! On the day of the army coup against Mugabe, the throngs of masses spilled into the streets of Harare and took selfies with their boys and girls in uniform! The army was appropriated from the dictatorship! The people were free, or so they thought! As it turned out, their freedom was short-lived. What the people thought was freedom, was an illusion. Munangagwa with his signature scarf in the colours of the national the colours, dishes out as much pain and suffering as his predecessor. This is not the form the story unfolds in Noviolet's Glory. If this was as how she narrated it, it would have been boring and not earned the 2022 Booker Prize Longlist. What Noviolet employs as her narrative tool, is the use of an array of animals and insects as characters in telling the story of the recent history of Zimbabwe. Those familiar with the actual history of Zimbabwe will easily pick which animal depicts which person in the actual history of that God forsaken country. You have to read the book to get the full import of the story, riveting story and beautifully told at that. The story ends well though with the Second Independence of Jidada with a da and another da. Tholukuthi.

I'm doubtful anything is going to top this for me in 2022. It was an emotional rollercoaster though so ima need to go read a romance now.

Content Warning: death (including that of children), murder, violence, rape, racism, genocide, misogyny, homophobia, police brutality. In the fictional country of Jidada, where all the inhabitants are animals, Old Horse has ruled for decades. Following the deposition that topples him from his figurative (and perhaps literal) throne, and the animals living in Jidada who are fighting for their freedom, Glory is inspired by the real-life overthrow of Zimbabwe's tyrant Robert G. Mugabe in the 2017 coup that shocked a nation. Brimming with hope and optimism even amidst oppression, brutality and the haunting legacy of a genocide, Bulawayo's sophomore novel gives voice to those living under cruel regimes, all through the eyes of Jidada's animal population. I actually picked this novel up just by chance in my local bookstore. Intrigued by the cover, and vaguely familiar with Bulawayo's name, I read the premise and was immediately intrigued by its originality. Yes, there are shades of Orwell's Animal Farm here, in the usage of satire and animals to commentate on politics, but Bulawayo's novel is totally and completely its own. With one of the most unique writing voices I've ever experienced, full of humor and moments of darkness, I feel lucky that I decided to purchase this on a whim. This could, without a doubt, be a modern classic, the kind of novel that children will be reading in schools in decades to come. To really delve into this book, you will probably be required to have some prior knowledge of Mugabe and his reign of terror, as well as Zimbabwe's history, both before its liberation and after. I'm only vaguely familiar with these topics, and I actually credit this book with educating me on it, as I was inspired to research and look into all of this whilst I was in the middle of reading Glory. It will help to give you context for the soul and heart behind this book, and to see the ironic, devastating humor in Bulawayo's on-the-nose rendering of real-world politicians into her characters. At its core, though, this book is a tale about humans and humanity (in spite of the fact that the characters are goats, pigs, horses, cows, and the occasional bird or cat!), and you will be able to immerse yourself into it regardless of where you come from, your gender, your race, or anything else. All of us can relate, to some degree, to the struggles and issues that Jidadan's population struggles through. Even here in America, where many of us are privileged enough to not have to deal with power cuts, no running water, or total internet shutdowns, we have recently experienced a political climate that is getting more and more fraught as the days go on (and this, too, is played at in Bulawayo's novel, with a baboon who is the president of the United States, an inclusion that certainly tickled me). The Ukraine is currently being forced into a brutal war with Russia, and in Putin's dictatorship, we see mirror images of the Old Horse, who believes he is "decreed by God himself to rule and rule and keep ruling." Ultimately, this beautiful, moving novel was so powerful that I often had to take breaks in between passages and chapters. While Bulawayo uses satire brilliantly, she also doesn't hesitate to speak on brutality, on evil and the many atrocious things the Jidadan (and, therefore, Zimbabwean) government has actively encouraged and participated in. The Gukurahundi, the genocide/democide that Robert Mugabe's Fifth Brigade committed against the Ndebele peoples, is at the forefront of the collective memory in Glory. It is something unspeakable, made speakable, by Bulawayo's confrontation of it. There are many, many characters, all of them used purposefully and with great artistry, but is it the young goat Destiny that we see ourselves in and who we love and root for, alongside her mother, Simiso. It is Destiny's life and Destiny's family history that we live through, in which we find the beautiful roots of Jidada, hidden for so long beneath the hatred, fear and intimidation. Her story will be enough to bring readers to tears. I can't recommend this book enough, to anyone and everyone. I will be reading Bulawayo's first novel, We Need New Names, and eagerly awaiting whatever she comes up with next. Glory is a masterpiece, and Bulawayo's writing is so fantastic, so unique, that I think she will be on my mind for a long time to come.

Every reader will get that this is a satirical telling of Zimbabwe’s tragic story, and that it’s a kind of Animal Farm, with the characters all animals and carrying all the implied commentary of revolutions gone wrong. What readers who aren’t familiar with (Southern) African culture might be missing (I’ve seen a few reviews that describe the book as boring / long-winded) is that the style is also reminiscent of izibongo/praise-poetry, and of oral history. So, it’s satire, and metaphor, and fable, in conversation with Animal Farm but proudly African in form, told from the POV of a chorus or a praise-poem. The style is unusual for western literature, and I guess you either love it or you don’t. I absolutely loved it. Covering everything from the Liberation War and Gukurahundi to Mugabe’s despotic rule and the coup of 2017 and decline since then, the story moves between central political characters and Destiny, a goat returned from exile to her mother in the township of Lozikeyi. The story is powerful, warm and full of compassion but also rage. At times it’s very funny, even as it breaks your heart. A brilliant novel.

YouTube Review will be filmed of this wonderful novel. https://youtu.be/olbZIxQDKss

There’s nothing particularly subtle about No Violet Bulawayo’s satire, but then there is little that is subtle about the Zimbabwean governments lead by Robert Mugabe and Emmerson Mnangagwa. In parts extremely funny, in parts weepingly tragic, Bulawayo manages to write in satirical novel form both the recent history of changes in leadership of ZANU-PF as contemptuous, and the early history of newly independent Zimbabwe as tragedy and horrific. It’s a delicate and difficult balance, but it works well. Part of the reason for the novel’s success is the sense of shifting narrative focus – initially focused on party leadership – the Old Horse (Father of the Nation), his Donkey wife (Dr Sweet Mother) and others of the inner circle (all the characters have animal form) – before shifting to a township in the south west (of Zimbabwe – my map of Jidada, the novel’s setting, is identical to Zimbabwe’s) with the return of a long absent daughter from abroad. Here the satire is broad and uncompromising – the Old Horse is past it, dozing off at official events, humoured by his inner circle, unable to control, or unaware of, the cliques and cabals plotting around him, and finally overthrown in a ‘palace coup’ by the army and a seemingly loyal lieutenant. It is in the wake of the rise of the Saviour of the Nation, and the hope offered by the fall of the Old Horse, that the novel’s other strand takes its form, with the arrival home in the township of Lozikeyi of Destiny, only child of Simiso, also an only child. Yet Destiny’s story-line is anything but satirical. Whereas the continuing presence of the Party of Power in the Seat of Power is so transparently corrupt and self-serving as to be only worthy of contemptuous satire, Destiny’s story, as it unpacks the first few years of the newly independent state, is too bleak to be satirised. It is in these two textual tropes that we see Bulawayo’s skill as a writer. Both take the same form – she works extensively with mythic and oral forms of grandeur and textual repetition and recycling, of sentences structured and given rhythm by the repeated use of the word ‘tholokuthi’ (often understood as ‘find out’ but can also mean ‘only to discover’ in colloquial Ndebele) as both incantation shaping the text, and the oral story teller’s punctuation. The text is woven through with social media commentaries (as the ‘Other Country’, that virtual world where people feel capable of letting go, passes comment on the ‘Country Country’, with soundbites and sardonic hashtags – I enjoyed the repeated appearance of #freefairincredible election). There are delightful idiomatic turns of phrase – some things become so well-known or blindingly obvious that ‘even the sticks and stones’ know or see – while the story’s anthropomorphic aspects disrupt the threat of species reductionism. Although some species seem suited to specific jobs (the military and paramilitary forces are dogs) the state is riven by ructions between national groups (paralleling Zimbabwe’s Shona/Ndebele tensions), not distinctions between species. It’s a subtle but crucial element of the critique. Despite the satirical form and fable-like characteristics, Bulawayo keeps the novel grounded in her Zimbabwean context through careful direct and allusive forms of language, of specific dates related to key events, yet these never overpower. The subtle shifts in textual from the satire of government (as seen in this list of Ministerial posts: “The Minister of the Revolution, the Minister of Corruption, the Minister of Order, the Minister of Things, the Minister of Nothing, the Minister of Propaganda, the Minister of Homophobic Affairs, the Minister of Disinformation, the Minister of Looting”) to more realist tropes in daily life, are for the most part not obvious until the mid-book chapter where the tone abruptly changes. Here the narrative focus shifts from the regime to the people of the township, to become more like an allegory as Destiny explores her family history. In this bleaker world, those oral narrative forms, the tholokuthi incantation, the call to find out, takes on a more optimistic form, as a call to knowledge and for resistance. Bulawayo keeps focus on the leaderships’ delusions and arrogance of power to the end: it’s not a happy ending, but it is an optimistic ending. This is a satirical fable-cum-allegory that is ultimately a tale of hope. Despite its reference point, you don’t need to know about Zimbabwe to get it: the satire and fable are sufficiently rich to stand alone. As an aside, I find the repeated references in reviews to Animal Farm frustrating – it may be a political satire with anthropomorphism, but there is little more these books have in common: Bulawayo’s sense of the Gukurahundi – the brutal era of ZANU’s consolidation of power – is not one of pigs betraying the revolution, but of one faction in an already strained relation annihilating to other. I understand the temptation to equate the two, but it feels a little lazy in its parallel building. Glory a superbly crafted novel, packed with writerly expertise and skill to build a rich, in places excessive, contemptuous, horrific, and tragic, yet ultimately ferociously optimistic piece of work: be prepared to laugh at the excess and weep at the tragedy. But most of all, be prepared to be captivated, and more than a little awestruck by Bulawayo’s abilities.

In Jidada, the decades-long reign of the Old Horse is brought to an end. But will this be the beginning of the much needed change for a country which has lived through colonisation, liberation war, and then years of equally bloody "defending of the revolution"? In NoViolet Bulawayo triumphant sophomore novel "Glory" Animal Farm meets the recent and not so recent history of Zimbabwe: chimurenga, Nehanda, Robert Mugabe's reign, Gukurahundi, the coup-not-a-coup, Emmerson Mnangagwa's scarf to name just a few. Glory is a biting satire, exubarant in its descriptions and images, but the novel is also not afraid to go to earnest, quiet places. Bulawayo so swiftly manages to show the absurdities of it all, putting a magnifying glass on these details, while also acknowlding the pain and trauma. This novel put me through all the emotions and in the end I was just in awe of what Bulawayo has created here. The Yvonne Vera references obviously helped too. Reading Glory also made me think again of Seasons of Hippoland. While both these books are very different in tone, at their core they are about the power of storytelling and remembering. And both touched me deeply. I would say that I am fairly well versed in Zimbabwean history and contemporary politics (no expert or lived experience, of course, but I do follow along) and I find it hard to imagine how this novel reads if you lack any context knowledge. Of course, you can read the novel also as a more general allegory but a lot would be lost. This is not to dissuade people to pick up the novel: on the contrary, I hope as many people as possible read Glory - and put in some work to get the most out of it.

Incredible

I am torn about the rating to assign to Glory: A Novel by NoViolet Bulawayo. It is a very unusual book, which won't appeal to all readers, but also a very good book, once you let yourself adapt to the oddness. In addition, I think it is a very important book for the times in which we live. On one hand, I usually reserve my 5-star ratings to books that stand out to me in a more personal way. On the other hand, I am shocked at the overall 3.7 rating on Goodreads. This seems too low, and I wonder if some reviewers are marking it down due to the attitude expressed toward a certain former US president, who is referred to here as the "Tweeting Baboon." So I'm inclined to leave my rating at 5 stars, though I'd rather go with something between 4 and 5, if it were permitted. I have a tag I sometimes set for very odd or unusual books: "weirdest-book-i-ever-read." Other books to which I've applied this tag include China Mieville's Railsea, Maria Doria Russell's The Sparrow, and Michael Chabon's Summerland. Most of the weirdness in Glory is due to the fact that all of the characters are animals: horses, dogs, pigs, goats, cats, and so on. This book is a direct descendant of George Orwell's Animal Farm, and there are even a couple of direct mentions of Animal Farm. The rest of the weirdness is due to Bulawayo's unique writing style. Most passages are narration, but the narrator's voice follows an African 'call-and-response' pattern, as though the narrator is in dialogue with the reader, and anticipates you, as that reader, to be exclaiming aloud in wonder, amazement, affirmation, or denial, at the things you are being told. There is one Zimbabwean word used on nearly every page of this book: "Tholukuthi." It can mean various things, but often it could be read as "then you find ...", or "only to discover...". The non-narrative sections of the book are interludes which contain imagined extracts from Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp, etc., that the citizens are posting. Bulawayo is a pen name for Elizabeth Zandile Tshele, a native Zimbabwean now living in the US. She began Glory after visiting Zimbabwe in 2017, following the overthrow of Robert Mugabe. The plot of the book initially follows very closely with the recent history of Zimbabwe, which is represented by the fictional country of Jidada. In Jidada's past the animals overthrew the colonizers and gained their independence, only to find the leadership void filled by a dictatorial strongman, who ruthlessly suppresses all opposition. The role of Robert Mugabe is here played by The Old Horse, who has ruled Jidada with an iron hoof for 40 years. He is finally deposed in a coup and exiled. The animals celebrate, only to discover their lives become so much worse under the former Vice President, Tuvy, than they ever had been under the Old Horse. Through heart-rending sacrifice, the animals eventually come together to take control of their own destiny. This book was shortlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize.

When those who know about things say that this is a difficult yet glorious book for the soul, (tholukhuti) what they mean is that this is a difficult yet glorious book for the soul.

The Book of Disappearance is a literary dissection of Zionism as an ongoing colonial project. The speculative premise, that every Palestinian vanishes overnight, is impossible to read as pure fantasy, because it represents a magnification of the logic already embedded in the settler state: that Palestinian life is expendable, that their erasure is the condition for Israel’s existence. Fayez Sayegh was blunt about this in 1965: Zionism “uses colonization for nation-building,” which “was essentially incompatible with the continued existence of the ‘native population’ in the coveted country". The novel’s most incisive achievement is its portrayal of Ariel, the liberal Zionist neighbor whose grief is always qualified, whose empathy never transcends the ideological horizon of a state that cannot conceive of itself without Palestinian absence. Ariel embodies that contradiction perfectly. He mourns Alaa in the abstract while contemplating what new possibilities might open in a land scrubbed clean of its indigenous people. The oxymoron of the “humane settler,” which Ghassan Kanafani dismissed as colonial myth, collapses under the weight of the novel itself. Alaa’s diary, by contrast, is a radical archive, a refusal to disappear even in disappearance. His catalog of streets, smells, and textures; his invocation of his grandmother’s memories; his quiet insistence that to name is to resist all serve as antidote to a political order that renders Palestinians as abstractions. The novel makes that abstraction impossible. To read this novel is to confront the impossibility of democracy in a state whose entire existence is predicated on the extermination of the Other. The Book of Disappearance forces the reader to understand that there is no “liberal” iteration of a settler project predicated on elimination, only variations of the same violence. It is a rare work of fiction that marries emotional precision with ideological clarity. This is not simply a novel about what it would feel like if Palestinians vanished; it is a novel about the fact that the world, in its complicity, has already realized that vanishing. The genocidal violence we witness today is the logical endpoint of the ideology Azem interrogates. The book reads as documentary rather than speculative fiction - a record of the world we inhabit, where Palestinian life is not only devalued but systematically targeted for elimination, and where that elimination is justified, rationalized, and too often ignored.

4,5 ⭐️ Harrowing, infuriating and way too real. A brilliant concept to showcase the ways in which Palestinians are constantly erased and the casual and pervasive cruelty of zionism. I do think the translation could’ve been better executed, but there were still so many gut wrenching lines. Alaa’s perspective was as touching as Ariel’s was enraging. Free Palestine 🇵🇸 "A city dies if it doesn’t recognize its people." "How could we walk the same path, and look at the same sea, yet see something so completely different?"

What if all the Palestinians in Israel vanished? The prose is spare yet poetic, steeped in longing and grief, but also full of tenderness and humanity.. It made me feel immense sadness and pointed rage. It’s good. Really good. I would recommend it to anyone and would honestly make it required reading. Azem doesn’t handhold the reader. Instead, she lets the silences and gaps speak, mirroring the absences left by Alaa’s disappearance. She weaves collective memory with personal history, making the novel feel both intimate and political. The disappearing Palestinians aren’t just a metaphor—they’re a challenge, asking: What does it mean to vanish? Who gets remembered, and who is erased? This is a quiet, aching novel, one that lingers long after the last page. It’s less a book you read and more one you wrestle with, coming out with the inevitable conclusion that living is political. Your stance is political. Your silence is political. Literature is political. I’m learning that more and more, and I’m falling deeper into my identity and my heritage because of it. The truth is I’m pissed I can’t read the original in Arabic. It makes me mad that I haven't once bought a book in Arabic though I'm happy to sound out WhatsApp messages and tweets. This felt like a rude but necessary wake-up call to buy an original and lock in. I owe it to a people I call my own. I owe it to them not to read our history and literature in a language that isn’t our first. I owe it to them to try. This review is messy, alas—but the TLDR is: You should read this book.

A one sitting book, I could not put this spectacular book down once I started. In this story Ibtisam Azem’s Arabic original novel is beautifully translated by Sinan Antoon. Ibtisam weaves a harrowing, yet grounded story in reality, into the disappearing bodies of Palestinians, the bodies we see disappear today and those who perished in 1948. In a few pages she intricately connects the past with today. In this story Alaa a young Palestinian is haunted by his grandmother, we are introduced to Tata at the end of her life. But through his grandmother Alaa, gets to build a relationship with pre 1948 Palestine and Yaffa. Alaa weaves his grandmother’s past through their few conversations; we get a glimpse into the lives of those who stayed behind and what they endured. Tata embodies sumud, in her strength and her love for life, and insistence of living in Palestine even as the cities and streets were changed and she was expelled. Ibtisam conceived and variety of different characters from different worlds, past, present, Palestinian, pre-1948 and post. Despite there being predominate characters Tata, Alaa, Ariel, every character leaves a mark. When we briefly meet Maryam. Maryam, speaks to the oppression and pressure that comes with existing not only in an apartheid state but in a world obsessed with the dominating women, crushing their souls and holding them responsible for everything that happens. Maryam is every woman you know and don't know, every woman you forget and don't see. In Maryam you can also see Tata. We also see how in their own right Alaa’s parents the 1948 generation were scarred by those events, and the impact of how that generational trauma manifested. When Ariel invades Alaa’s privacy and is reading his notebook. I could feel this shortens of breath, I can feel the anticipation of wanting to read the words but also knowing it's wrong. Ibtisam manages to put you in Ariel’s shoes, shoes you don’t want to slip into, shoes that make your skin crawl. When I think of how Ariel sees the world, it makes wonder how much hypocrisy we all carry, when we over personalise experiences and lack objectivity. When Ariel insists on questioning how Alaa feels and has held on the past and he should move on whilst also insisting on this sense of pride, that 3000 years has passed and “they returned”. Ibtisam in her words and genius in writing a character like Ariel, showcases her ability as a Palestinian to understand the other, better than they can understand themselves. If there are any particular words that Ibtisam has written in which even a translation can’t fail to portray… then these are a few choice words. “We inherit memory the way we inherit the colour of our eyes and skin. We inherit the sound of laughter just as we inherit the sound of tears. Your memory pains me.” “Your Jaffa resembles mine. But it is not the same. Two cities impersonating each other. You carved your names in my city, so I feel like I am a returnee from history. Always tired, roaming my own life like a ghost, a ghost who lives in your city. You too are a ghost, living in mine. And we call both cities Jaffa.” “Longing for her is like holding a rose of thorns.”

4.5 and possibly a 5 for me when I’ve had time to digest it. A lyrical, nuanced, deeply political book about loss, memory, history and country. “Survivors are the loneliest.” “Missing you is like a rose of thorns.”

Ibtisam Azem’s sparse, in places emotionally demanding, elegiac novel poses a profound question – what happens in a settler colonial state when the Indigenous, the colonised disappear? Of course, the disappearance of the Indigenous is goal of settler colonialism, along with the Indigenization of the coloniser – but in most cases that is seen as a gradual process of cultural absorption and annihilation. It is not the sudden overnight disappearance that she presents here. But that’s how it is… One morning Israel wakes up to discover its Palestinian people have disappeared. At first it is seen as workers not turning up – so the assumption is that it’s a general strike, but there has been no announcement. As the story progresses it becomes clear that every Palestinian in occupied Palestine has disappeared, but not the exiles/refugees outside historic Palestine. What’s more, those exiles and refugees who try to cross the border also disappear…. Some Israelis, such as the hard right and illegal settlers, are delighted, but most are scared, worried, fretting that this is beginning of something big. Perhaps a challenge to the Zionist state, the commencement of a new intifada, or perhaps a spectacularly successful act of the state – but every Palestinian has gone, seeming to have disappeared in the midst of whatever routine activity they were engaged in. Azem does well constructing the fear associated with the colonisers’ loss of control: this is what they wanted, but not on their terms. The militarised civil society is mobilised, but the enemy remains elusive, unknown, unseen, and manifest only in their absence – yet Azem manages to avoid presenting this as an absurdity; it is too fundamental to coloniality to be that. Yet this is also the context for the specific narrative, which while framed by this goal of the state as crisis is a small, intimate tale of Alaa, a Palestinian freelance camera operator in Haifa and his friend and neighbour Ariel, a Jewish journalist, and liberal Zionist heavily invested in the existence of the state. Woven into Ariel’s search for his friend, and perplexity about what is going on is his reportage for the US newspaper for which he is the Israeli correspondent, is Alaa’s journal of his family history and especially his relationship with his recently deceased grandmother. She had stayed on after the Nakba, keeping alive her Haifa through stories of people, of places, of her Palestine. Alaa’s journal alongside Ariel’s reporting and the fear exhibited by the Zionist state weaves a multiple and complex set of stories of coloniality – of Indigeneity and of settlement, of occupation and ordinary world of the colonised. At times Alaa’s grandmother’s story had me thinking of Cherokee novelist Thomas King’s The Truth About Stories and more so Edward Chamberlin’s If This is Your Land, Where Are Your Stories as explorations of forms of engagement with place. In part, this Israeli/Palestinian distinction was exacerbated by Azem’s depictions of the Haifa-Tel Aviv relationship and her character’s general contempt for Tel Aviv as loud, brash, and soul-less. And yet despite his liberalism Ariel takes over Alaa’s world, space, and stories. None of this is heavy handed: Azem lets the novel build itself to show both the insecurities of the colonised and precariousness of the occupied who have only their stories to sustain their survivance. It is both a story of the Zionist state and Palestinian resilience, and a more general tale of coloniality that never loses its humanity. Quite superb.

very good!!!!!!! i recommend this to everyone!!! have to think more about this, could easily read it again to discover more of what is between the lines! this review is to be updated from Donlon Books 🤧

a heart-wrenchingly beautiful novel. the exploration of the ideas about the disappearance of the palestinians and the very realistic fallout of what could happen, is something deeply emotional and deeply horrifying. eventhough this novel was published in 2014, it is still so relevant today and even more so. a must read & a book that will stay with me for a long time.

This book left behind an indescribable impression as if, with the disappearance of the Palestinians, time itself would come to a halt. The world, the universe, would pause. The novel begins with a gripping search for the grandmother, pulling us into the urgency of events, but soon the pace shifts into a slow, contemplative rhythm. It becomes a eulogy for the Palestinians and their suffering. It’s about how Jaffa remains, watching, enduring the rise of Tel Aviv. Through graceful storytelling and a quiet tempo, we are guided through memories, events, questions, and a profound sadness. Not only for the suffering endured under occupation, but also for how the sense of being a victim can sometimes mask wrongdoing and justify crimes in the name of entitlement. Promises, too, are often nothing more than veiled hypocrisy. This is a deeply intelligent novel like a quiet message that the land will always belong to its true people, while strangers will forever keep changing the locks, no matter the circumstances. هذا الكتاب في نفسي أثراً غامضاً يصعب وصفه، وكأن الزمن سيتوقف مع اختفاء الفلسطينيين. كأن العالم، والكون، وكل شيء، سيتجمد في لحظة الغياب. تبدأ الرواية بوتيرة متسارعة مع البحث عن الجدة، ثم ينخفض الإيقاع تدريجياً، ليأخذنا في رحلة تأملية هادئة. هي رثاء للفلسطينيين ومعاناتهم، وسردٌ كيف بقيت يافا شاهدةً على صعود تل أبيب. بلغة سردية جميلة وإيقاع هادئ، نغوص في الذكريات، الأحداث، التساؤلات، والكثير من الحزن؛ ليس فقط على ما تحمّله العرب من ألم تحت الاحتلال، بل أيضاً على كيف يمكن لشعور الضحية أن يغطي على الأخطاء والجرائم تحت غطاء الأحقية، وكيف يمكن للوعود أن تُصبح شكلاً من أشكال النفاق. رواية ذكية جداً، كأنها رسالة تقول: الأرض ستبقى لأصحابها، بينما سيظل الغرباء يبدّلون الأقفال مهما تبدّلت الظروف.

[4.5] i love this for similar reasons to why the pear field by nana ekvtimishvili is one of my favourite books. the plot exists as the backdrop for everything else, and it's not *that* important beyond acting as a propeller to push you into different sections of its world. the plot of "all palestinians have suddenly dissapeared" could have been a mystery book, but the mystery itself is not as important as what the mystery forces its characters to think about. and even though this question of "where have the palestinians gone" lingers on all readers minds, the question becomes less of a literal one and more of an invite to think about loss and memory and national identity in general

Really excellent. The novel considers the aftermath of the mysterious disappearance of all Palestinians from Israel and the occupied territories. The 2 main characters are Alaa - a Palestinian mourning the loss of his grandmother. We mostly get his point of view via his notebook entries. The other is Ariel, a friend of Alaa's and a liberal Zionist who is trying to make sense of the event as part of his job as a journalist. Written before the Hamas attack on Israel in October 2023 and the ensuing (and continuing) Israeli response, this book does feel like a slight harbinger of that

Magical realism asking the question: what if all the Palestinians suddenly disappear? A very worthwhile read (my first with the POV of Palestinians who remained within the borders after the Nakba) but a very heavy and difficult one.

So this was definitely a literary journey. I am quite sad and surprised that this book did not make it on the Booker International shortlist for 2020. When it comes to translation and the use of language, this extremely complex, detailed, brilliantly phrased translation from Afrikaans to English, with its plethora of authentic historical words and concepts, including a weird passage in full German, is a much more obvious celebration of languages in their diversity than some of the other entries. The book itself was one of the most difficult books I have ever read. Small-lettered, detailed to the extreme, written in a genre I am not well-versed in (western), but with such specific day-to-day detail of a country I have fallen in love with but cannot claim to yet known the minutia of. It took a hot minute to get through this book but I recommend it to thorough readers and thinkers. In terms of the violence in it, it is supposed to be extremely violent but since I am not a pansy, I can claim that I have read much more hardcore and graphic books. The novel presents the immense, bigger than life persona of Coenraad de Buys, an outlaw of the Cape Colony and beyond, in South Africa's confusing 18th-19th century. Wilderness, toughness, violence, clan wars, entirely different groups and ethnicities fighting each other and bleeding the land of its animals, riches and people. And all of this told by Omni-Buys, the character's own omniscient variant. I am into this kind of immense ego trip and am curious to learn more about Coenraad and the wars described here when I return to South Africa. Recommended to readers who are not afraid of difficult books and who are not brainwashed by modern political and social sensibilities.

Brutal, hyper-masculine, lyrical, infuriating - a hell of a book, best thing I've read from SA for many years. Superb translation from Afrikaans allows it to flow. Not everyone's cup of rooibos, but it's like a magic mirror into SA's dark settler past, and an unflinching look at men, power and frontier life. Exceptional and deeply unsettling

I listened to this on audiobook and it was heavy going. It is set in 18th and 19th century South Africa. Although fictional, this is the story of a man of his time, and what a time of upheaval it was. Brilliantly written, this story is not for the faint of heart, but definitely a great book for lovers of history and historical fiction. I am glad I choose this as an audiobook as I absolutely loved listening to Peter Noble's narration; both he, and Willem Anker's writing put me smack bang in the middle of the beautiful country that is South Africa. I loved it!

Predicting KAIROS to be the winner of the 2024 International Booker Prize! Jenny Erpenbeck’s novel is a sharp and fascinating character study, written with an impressive and magnetic prose, with insights into life in the DDR in the background, before and after the fall of the Berlin Wall. The story revolves around the love affair between 19-year-old Katharina and 53-year-old married Hans, in Eastern Berlin before and after the fall of the Berlin Wall. I admit that I almost didn’t pick that book because the age gap (34 years!) made me gasp in horror. And indeed, this is NOT a charming relationship, more so a very abusive one, with a lot of jealousy and even sadomasochism involved. Hans is manipulative, dominating, extremely jealous (though let’s remember that he is married), patronising, sadistic. Jealousy pushed quite to the extreme did take a bit too much space in my opinion. I honestly wasn’t too pleased by the toxic relationship element but the phenomenal writing was a delight! I am pretty sure though that the prose is not gonna be to everyone’s liking and that some people could say it is convoluted and dense. In that instance, it did work for me - smart, elegant, confident. The way the author switches perspectives, uses 1st/ 2nd/ 3rd person and how thoughts and dialogues between the protagonists can sometimes blur into each other was truly well done and impressive. I loved the historical element of the novel, even if I honestly didn’t know nor get all of the historical and cultural references. I loved reading about life in East and West Germany without it being in the foreground of the story. The link made with German history throughout the novel, as it becomes more socio-political, was brilliant. KAIROS is absolutely worthy of reading!

Beautiful autobiographical novel by Domenico Starnone, a writer whose work I love. I especially love his recent trip of short novels, but this book is wonderful, too.

“I was trying to understand how life decays when we’re overpowered by an obsession for results” p.236 The best book I have read so far this year.

This is a slowburn, a narrative that digs and digs and digs - or perhaps more accurately, a circling around a center that moves, that dazzles, that debilitates. It's not an easy read, it hems and haws, retreads and ruminates, does not pull the reader along until you take on the same searching questions that mimic the narrator's own - this is the brilliance of Starnone's structure, and it's a marvel. He's in no rush and it is carefully calibrated, but the seduction is slow and deliberate. There are layers upon layers, much like the long-gestating paintings of the narrator's father, Federì - and in an attempt to condemn this antagonistic, larger-than-life paterfamilias, Mimi ultimately happens upon a mirror and a mantel in the enigmatic conclusion of his narrative odyssey. Federì is excessive, contradictory, tyrannical - violent and seductive, in equal measure. In this portrait of the artist as a young man, the narrator aims to examine where his father ends and where he begins, yet the enmeshment offers no clear lines, just as his artist father taught him that no black lines should outline the shape of things. "My fascination with his [Federì's] extreme vitality, a trait of his ever since he was born, devitalized me to the degree that, to this day, I think that I was able to stand as still as a statue for him only because I didn't have the strength to have a childhood, an adolescence, an existence on a par with his." (304) The shadow that his father casts over his entire life leads Mimi to depths of rage but also enlightenment and, most frustratingly, an understanding of his own genesis as an artist, as a writer. The gorgeous, miraculous peacock that he detects in the marital room of his parents is, indeed, the manifestation of his own voice that springs forth from the madness of his childhood house on Via Gemito. Yet, yet, yet - paradoxically enough, in this obsessive examination of his father, it's the mother who comes into relief. She is the triumph of this story, tragic a character though she may be. This book Mimi has written is the book of poetry that never reached her, written in her honor, dedicated to her memory, Rosa, Rusine, the "constrained woman." Hence the title of this book, addressed to where she lived on "Via Gemito" so that it may find her - just as the "typical, hand-kissing bastard" poet had attempted, thwarted by Don Ciro the building porter and, of course, the ever-watchful, ever possessive, ever present Federì. Mimi aims to create an anatomy of his father and out springs his mother, inevitably: "I'm now going to ponder the mystery that is Rusinè. 'I don't know anything about her and yet she's everywhere." (170) However, the puzzle is that, indeed, the book is written in her honor, but it's not about her, it's not of her, it cannot inhabit her, an experience the narrator is more able to approximate with his own father, and this leads to one of the most revealing and essential lines in the entire story - the writer's reflection on language and words and ideas in its construction of the life that surrounds you: "I remember everything about him; he filled my head with his words and thoughts. I have none of my mother's words though, none of my mother's thoughts. And yet the first syllables I spoke must have surely come from her. I wish I could hear her words again, I wish I could feel how I welcomed them in my throat, repeating mutilated versions of them over and over in that room with no walls on Via Zara. But my father, with his usual energy, modified their speed and erased their tone. He injected them with an ambition and will that didn't belong to his wife, but to him. After all, wasn't he the one who brought back to that space- bordered by the bed on one side and the military blanket on the , by warm milk and the abyss - the desire to be heard, to be the loudest, to stand out? No, my mother's voice, even if it wound its way into every single fiber of my child's body, ultimately gave out, was too fragile. She, who unquestionably played with me, sang to me, and made toys for me, didn't have it in her to leave me with any sounds. She was quickly reduced to the words that her husband screamed at her from the moment he came home from work until late at night: f*ck it all, Rusine', f*ck it all." (39) Mother is uncontainable and ungraspable, try as Mimi might - he works in words, he is a master of the form, and yet his mother slips from his reach. Perhaps the elephant in the room enters at this point when discussing Starnone: his rumored connection to Elena Ferrante, and this, in my mind, is where the two most obviously connect. They share many of the same preoccupations, and there is, without a doubt, an obvious thread - that same "thread" motif that Ferrante uses repeatedly of things being sewn together and then unraveling, is here, too. Yet this book in no way, shape, or form mimics the reading experience of the My Brilliant friend series. It does not share that same propulsive, forward narrative thrust that made the experience of Ferrante's Napoli cycle so magnetic, so seductive, so siren-like. However, both stories are ignited with a competition inter- layered with some kind of deep, lingering, and unreconciled resentment between two characters that mirror each other - in MBF it's Lila and Lenu', here it's Mimi and his father, and it ends with Mimi questioning everything he has ever assumed to know. Granted this mystery, both of life and of authorship, may never be solved, just as both Starnone and Ferrante suggest in all their books, but the literary experience of examining the very same things that both bring us together and simultaneously tear us apart makes the journey very much worth the reader's while. Image credit: Federico Starnone "Rusinè" - 1947 -private collection

If it is true that in every book we read we meet a part of our lives — then in this book I have met my past my present and my future. I'm not sure about happy or unhappy families being similar or contrasting but I'm sure every absent & reckless and brutal father is absent, reckless and brutal in the same way. I have a dream that society summons them all one day and looks at their children, especially sons, with warmth. It is about the sons this time. Written in 2000 and now translated from the Italian by Oonagh Stransky, THE HOUSE ON VIA GEMITO by Domenico Starnone is about a son looking back on his life, especially his childhood & adolescence and growing up with his parents, a transition that was not cheerful. Autobiographical in nature, Mimí, is our narrator and one of the 6 children of Federí and Rusinè, a couple living in an apartment named Via Gemito, house number 64 in Naples in Italy. I have a limit to seeing things in gray so I'll get to the point - Federí is this intemperate man, a very talented painter (working at the railroads) who is sure of his talent, who knows he is the best, who knows everyone has wronged him in life including his wife & her relatives, who isn't a shithead like most of the people around him, who is never wrong, who seldom thinks he'd be a world-famous artist if he didn't have a family to feed. And Rusinè is his wife. Mimí seemed astute to me. He does admire his father but he often talks about the weapon he is in possession of for killing him. He is unassertive but he has his morals in place. And Rusinè - nothing but compassion for her. Wherever our narrator goes, his larger-than-life father's shadow follows him. He wants to recollect all his memories and make peace with them. Lately it has become extremely difficult for me to cry, nothing makes me cry & especially not books. The same was with this book. But I so wanted to cry. And bawl and sob and weep and all the equivalents. Now takes a position on the list of my all time favourite books.

This is the powerful and compelling story of a narcissistic father and the son who spends his life trying to come to terms with him and escape from under his shadow. The narrator is Mimi, a writer, who revisits his past and remembers life with his working-class family in post-war 1960s Naples. The father Federi works on the railways but believes himself, with some justification, to be a great artist, thwarted by the demands of family life from achieving his true potential and the consequent national and international acclaim. Frustrated and resentful, he takes out his feelings on his family and those close to him, not often physically but certainly verbally and emotionally. A true narcissist, forever disappointed, resentful and angry, he’s a larger-than-life character who dominates his family and especially Mimi. He is in fact a good, if not a great artist, who probably hasn’t achieved what he might have done if circumstances had been different, so although he’s hardly likeable, it’s a nuanced portrait and the reader can’t help but have some sympathy for him, in spite of his obnoxious personality. The narration is fairly repetitive, I admit, as Federi lurches from one crisis to another, but personally I found this trajectory absorbing and almost mesmerising. It’s a very impressive work indeed and well worth the acclaim and prizes it has garnered. I very much enjoyed it.

Not everyone’s cup of tea but I loved it. Imagery quotes I liked “Trailing behind the locomotive, the train cars whip through the buildings of the city, hurrying after the grey smoke from the engine, gradually turning into a string of dark yarn that gets pulled taunt between one road and another, between one alley and another” “And finally there’s the gas streetlight. An inert eye during the day, it comes to life at dusk. Shadows are born, but not the kind that shift and stretch during the sunlight hours; these remain the same, all night long” Characterization quotes I liked At that point, Federí usually opened a parentheses. "You, however, will go to university. I will not behave with you the way my father did with me. You will be able to become whatever you want: a railroad engineer, whatever. I will not stand in your way." Listening to him, I sensed that I actually would've preferred some kind of opposition. I confusedly intuited that behind his desire for me to become "whatever you want" lay his need for me to do something deeply gratifying for him, such as become a railroad engineer. And so I was trapped by the fear of not meeting his expectations; I ended up envying him his father who obstructed his path at every turn, which then made it easy for him to say, "It was all my father's fault." But he didn't realize it. The parentheses would close.

English: At Night All Blood is Black Now Winner of the International Booker Prize 2021 Winner of the Prix Goncourt des Lycéens 2018 This book is so intense, reading it is a physical experience: The slaughter on the battlefields of WW I, desperation, guilt, madness, sex - the first person narrator takes the reader down a very graphic rabbit hole and it's not easy to stomach. Our 20-year-old protagonist Alfa Ndiaye and his best friend want to leave their small Senegalese village in order to see the world and, facing limited options, they decide to join the French army and fight for the colonial power in WW I. When his childhood friend dies in a slow and particularly gruesome way while Alfa watches as he feels like he cannot finish the act of the enemy, he goes mad over his guilt: Alfa starts to seek out and wound German soldiers in the same painful way as his friend was wounded by one of their compatriots, watches them suffer and then kills them, taking with him one of their hands. Now the other French soldiers start to fear the black man who is covered in blood and brings severed hands to their camp, and Alfa, confronted with the madness of industrialized warfare, lonely, grieving and disturbed, spirals out of control. At the core, French-Senegalese author David Diop is telling a story of racism and war: France sent 180,000 black soldiers from their colonies into WW I, perpetrating racist stereotypes, arming them with machetes and sending them on the battlefield screaming - and the Germans behind the enemy lines did buy into the narrative and feared the "savages" who brought "barbarity" to Europe. Alfa sees through the racist dynamic and suffers under the inhumane orders he is expected to follow without questioning: He knows that it is crazy to follow the commands, because the chance to survive is so small. His pain becomes unbearable when he realizes that his best friend died to defend a racist regime in the complete madness of the battlefields of WW I - which raises the question: Isn't it a normal reaction to lose one's mind when witnessing the pointless and seemingly endless brutality, caught in the slaughterhouse that Alfa's world has become? This protagonist suffers from severe PTSD, which of course wasn't an acknowledged condition in WW I. In several flashbacks, we learn about Alfa's backstory, his family, his childhood, and how he ended up in the war, until this novella culminates in a terrible finale. The narration mirrors oral traditions and works with mantra-like repetitions that are remiscient of a religious litany or a folk song. The way Diop conveys Alfa's thoughts and feelings is unbelievably effective - I rarely read a book that distressed me as much as this one. But make no mistake: The explicit scenes aren't gratuitous, they are always there to make a point - even the placement of the wounds is always symbolic. A key concept of the text is that of "being double", as Alfa himself puts it, so look out for the analogies and comparisons in the text that hold important messages. The French title of the book is "Frère d'âme", soul brother, a homophone to "Frère d'armes", brother in arms - this does not only point to Alfa's relationship with his dead friend, but also to the way black soldiers are dehumanized, because they are not perceived as people with souls, but as living weapons. Alfa questions existing rules, realizes the nature of socially accepted cruelty and then concludes: "I became a savage through thinking." This is powerful stuff, deservedly celebrated in France, a country which currently outclasses the rest of Europe when it comes to edgy novels with distinct voices.

Over two million West Africans fought for France in WWI, and yet the image I have of that war is entirely white. I can't remember a single line of Wilfred Owen, or a single scene of All Quiet on the Western Front that mentions any other kind of person in the trenches. Diop's novel corrects that view. It brings to life a world where white officers encourage their "chocolat" soldiers to strike fear in the enemy by behaving with excess savagery on the battlefield. The officers think of these men, after all, as savages. But when one of the men goes too far in his savagery, he's sent to a field hospital to recover from what his officers categorize as a mental breakdown. It's a striking and harrowing counterpoint to Pat Barker's novel Regeneration, where men are sent home from the battle and considered mentally ill for refusing to fight hard enough. The narrative voice is lyrical, mythical, nearly incantory, and yet the story the narrator tells is one of relentless violence--not just violence of trench warfare, graphically portrayed, but also the violence of colonialism.

Military officers often describe how it's necessary to mentally and physically break recruits down so they can be rebuilt into soldiers. The idea is that creating a steely sensibility which follows the absolute authority of commanding officers is necessary for the brutality of war. Arguably, it's a process that entirely strips individuals of their humanity to transform them into killing machines. This is what the character of Alfa has turned into at the start of David Diop's “At Night All Blood is Black”. When his “more-than-brother” friend Mademba is killed during combat while they are fighting in WWI, Alfa goes on a rampage assassinating German soldiers and cutting off their hands to keep as trophies. This Senegalese soldier fights for the French army and at first they find his deadly tenacity admirable and then fear he's actually a madman or demonically possessed. Within the context of war, questions of humanity or inhumanity become dangerously confused. This intensely brilliant novel portrays the conflicts this soldier has over this issue as he literally battles through his grief and rage. In deftly pared-down prose the author powerfully describes the chaotic savagery of war and how it spiritually crushes this beautifully unique and traumatized individual. Read my full review of At Night All Blood is Black by David Diop on LonesomeReader I'm thrilled Diop's novel has won the International Booker Prize and you can see my live reaction has I'm watching the ceremony here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vqdsOdnTA3U

Blew my mind. Terrifying and yet understandable. Made me question the ways that humanity works, who gets it extended to them, who doesn't, who never did, and who shouldn't. Made me think about the experiences of Black folks across the diaspora fighting in WWI & WWII which I don't get to hear about nearly enough. This was a severe read about the ways that war creates madness or brings out madness in folks. I was enamored with the lens this novel is shared from. An African man fighting in the midst of World War I for France is absolutely triggered and violently responding to his mistakes by expressing his regret through violence and rage. His methods are scaring his army brothers, leading them to believe that he is evil. After he is discharged by his commanding officer, he meets with a doctor to work through his problems and begins a recollection of his home life and family. It's crazy the limits the mind is pushed to and what happens when you give in to thoughts piling up on top of each other. A couple of standout sentences: “In the open air, the inside of the body of any human being or animal becomes corrupted.” “Yes, I understood, God’s truth, that on the battlefield they wanted only fleeting madness. Madmen of rage, madmen of pain, furious madmen, but temporary ones. No continuous madmen. As soon as the fighting ends, we’re to file away our rage, our pain, and our fury. Pain is tolerated, we can bring our pain home on the condition that we keep it to ourselves. But rage and fury cannot be brought back to the trench. Before returning home, we must denude ourselves of rage and fury, we must strip ourselves of it, and if we don’t we are no longer playing the game of war. Madness, after the captain blows the whistle to retreat, is taboo.” “I didn’t know how to chase my mother from my mind except by exhausting my body. ” Excerpts From At Night All Blood Is Black David Diop This material may be protected by copyright.

“At Night All Blood is Black” by David Diop is a tiny but impactful novel about the experience of a Senegalese soldier fighting for France during World War I. I’m very happy to see a novel build around a topic so marginalized in history books, and maybe even more so in literature. The novel follows Ndiaye, a young soldier traumatized by the war and slowly descending into madness. The latter is symbolized by a macabre ritual Ndiaye undertakes as a sort of burial rites for his childhood friend that died fighting in French trenches. Diop does something astonishing in his novel, he describes the war with such a skillful turn of phrase that all that repulsive savagery feels secondary to the pleasure of reading. The use of African folklore and mastery with which Diop exposes racist stereotypes the French army took advantage of to fight the enemy are brilliant topics for a discussion, so much so that I kind of wish I hadn’t closed my YouTube channel so I would have the chance to record a full-length review just to talk with you about that. I guess we can do it in the comments below. I’ve read four shortlisted novels and this one, so far, would be my International Booker Prize winner. One thing I didn’t like, I think we should move on from using metaphors of war as a capricious and dangerous woman. Doesn’t matter if one is a talented writer, those metaphors are already dated while it always was very sexist.

FINAL REVIEW: It seems like I’ve been reading a lot of hyper-violent books these days. This story takes place during World War I when France recruited African soldiers to fight with them against the Germans. We follow one of these soldiers, Alfa, who is grappling with the death of a fellow soldier, his childhood friend, his “brother.” While bleeding out, this friend pleads for Alfa to end his suffering by slitting his throat, which Alfa refuses to do. The story then proceeds to explore the regretful ramifications of Alfa’s decision. It’s disturbing, disgusting, and downright bloody. One thing you’ll notice right away is the repetitive nature of the prose. Similar sentences circle back into one another, phrases recur over and over, imagery and plot points are constantly brought back into the forefront. At first, this was a little jarring and pulled me out of the story because it is impossible not to notice this stylistic choice. But then I got used to it, and welcomed it, and enjoyed it. It is a superb way of demonstrating this character’s descent into madness. It’s as if the character needs to repeat himself as a desperate way to hold onto his sanity, to convince himself that he is still a human and capable of rational thought. This style also adds to the claustrophobic tone of the novel. It places the reader into this frame of mind as well: you feel almost as trapped and disoriented as the narrator. There were a lot of weird moments of imagery being compared to women’s bodies and anatomy, and it seemed like a strange thing to do. But then even that starts to make sense as the narrative continues. There is so much foreshadowing going on even though you have no idea that's actually what’s being fed to you. That’s why I think this book would benefit from a reread. If I reread it, I’ll probably uncover other nuggets of brilliance that I didn’t pick up on the first time. What a ruthless read!! A great character study on a soldier who succumbs to total madness. It is not for the faint of heart so tread carefully. I must read it again. https://www.instagram.com/p/CLKFYeyAU...

God’s truth, how wonderfully honest and devastating can a man’s story be told. A story about war, race and people in under 150 page is crazy and masterfully told. I normally don’t like repetitive wordings and scenes but it was necessary in this story to make a point. Every word, every sentence was well written and placed. It was such a brutal, intense and important piece of work; I read this book from start to finish with no pause. God’s truth, may Alfa, Mademba and all the other unnamed victims of war find peace.

** spoiler alert ** I downloaded this book from the library, knowing nothing more about it than it was on the International Booker longlist. And, in passing somewhere, I had seen the word "horror". Many spoilers ahead: It starts in the trenches of WWI. Definitely horrifying on so many levels. Since I have not read a lot of war books (esp. WWI), I had never really thought about the British & French using colonial forces as part of their troops. This book focuses on Alfa Ndiaye, a Sengalese soldier referred to as a “chocolat” soldier, along with his friend Mademba Diop, his hometown friend who is dying of gruesome wounds. Honestly, the first fourth of the book was so hard. Gruesome. As it should be. I put it down for a bit & did something I almost never do..., I looked at reviews/discussion of the book here to see if I should continue. I decided to continue. This is a short book that packs a powerful punch. There are so many layers, so much there, much of it related to dualities. Mademba begs Alfa three different times to kill him, to put him out of his misery. Three times, Alfa refuses. (So many classical references.) After Mademba spends the day in agony & dies, Alfa carries him back to the trench. He's hailed a hero, even by the white soldiers fighting alongside him. But it changes Alfa, something has snapped. He becomes a hunter of the enemy, seeking in each battle to take just one man from the other side, maim him enough for the man to feel pain & fear, then kill him in an "act of mercy" that he wasn't able to do for his friend. Atonement of a sort by reenacting his sin & the salvation he should have given to his friend. Alfa doesn't stop there, though, he cuts off the hand carrying the rifle & brings it back to the trench with him as a trophy or talisman. For the first few hands, he's hailed a hero. By the fourth hand, everyone is starting to steer clear of him, afraid of him &/or of the evil eye around him. He's a man with a singular mission, efficient, strong, & capable. You're inside Alfa's mind & it's terrifying. (Dualities of hero/victim; savior/saved; sin/atonement; black/white; colonizer/colonized.) When Alfa's hiding the hands (which he's carefully preserved) from his superiors, he protects his trunk by painting a small hand on a red background as a talisman. Later, when he's been pulled from the front lines for a month of "rest", he draws these hands for the doctor who is treating him. So many of the hand references made me think of the Hamsa/Eye of Fatima. Oh the irony of a talisman that is supposed to ward off the evil eye doing the work of *being* the evil eye as far as others are concerned. More duality. Another hand significance.... Alfa refers repeatedly to the "chocolat" soldiers leaping out of the trenches with "their rifles in their left hands and their machetes in their right". Many cultures consider the left hand "dirty", while the "right" is clean. Is this the case here? Is the rifle (weapon of the colonizer) dirty, while the machete (tool at home) clean? Possibly. More duality. As Alfa recuperates, he tells some stories of his & Mademba's backgrounds growing up. Their family totems. More dualities explored in the hunter/hunted; strong/weak; etc. We reach the ultimate duality of Alfa's mind/body giving way to supporting/giving life to Mademba within the same body, so he's hosting/living for both, where they're working together to fight back against the oppression, the colonizer, the world. This idea of hosting two within one reminded me so much of Memoirs of a Porcupine by Alain Mabanckou (which is about a young man whose animal "double" in him is a porcupine & they lead a violent existence, attacking others while blaming each other for being the "one" who did it). More duality in the exploration of life/death & death/resurrection. At root, a novel of dualities at every level with much food for thought & discussion. Grim, brutal, thoughtful, & recommended.

** spoiler alert ** a short and striking/sad novel 🖤😢😔💔❤ a story about, and told from the perspective of, a young Senegalese man who loses so much - including his best friend and himself - fighting as soldiers for the French army during World War 1. 🖤😢😔💔❤ the racism, their 'Chocolat' group of soldiers, and colonialism. the promise of French citizenship for fighting for France... but how ultimately disposable and poorly used the African soldiers are by their officers 😕😬😢😔 🖤😢😔💔❤ maybe half the book is in and around their trench on the front, and the other half while recuperating. throughout/as the novel progresses, his/their background is gradually told. 🖤😢😔💔❤ the telling is strangely repetitive in some ways, but in ways that (for me at least) work well, with both the narrative style, and the situation... and also act to show our main character's state of mind and thought processes. 🖤😢😔💔❤ the story is pretty horrific in large part. the very real and in no way glamorised experience of war 💔 🖤😢😔💔❤ i think for some readers/reviewers the sex stands out uncomfortably, and it *is* abit uncomfortable and disconcerting. but i also think it's in keeping with a young man, and wanting to live before you die, and how sometimes amongst alot of death sex can become abit frantic/obsessive as both release/somewhere to lose oneself, and as affirmation of life. it is pretty uncomfortable still, especially what reads like one interaction when consent is/seems blurry. also uncomfortablly realistic in the relating of sexual violence to conflict, and how it manifests within conflicts, including as a weapon. so, while i wasn't expecting so much focus on sex, and sexual imagery and language in the everyday, and it was abit (deliberately) uncomfortable... it also made sense/i think i can see some of what the author was doing with it. 🖤😢😔💔❤ the story ends on what felt like a hopeful note, in the very last sentence ❤ 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 accessed as an RNIB audiobook, read by Dion Graham ♥

[...]'Any event that surprises a man has already been experienced by other man before him. The effects of all human possibilities have already been felt. Nothing that might happen to us here, as terrible or as felicitous as it might seem, is new. But what we experience is always new because every man is unique, the way every leaf and every tree is unique. Men share with each other the same lifeblood, but each feeds himself from it differently. Even if the new isn't really new, it's always new for those who, ceaselessly, wash up on the world's shores, generation after generation, wave after wave. So, in order to find yourself in life, to not lose yourself on the path, you must listen to the voice of duty. To think too much about yourself is to falter. Whoever understands this secret has the potential to live in peace. But it's easier said than done.' (108 psl.) Makabriška senegaliečio samdinio, kariaujančio prancūzų armijos gretose Pirmojo pasaulinio karo metu, istorija. Labai šiuolaikiškas skaitinys apie karo ir imperializmo nežmoniškumą ir beprasmybę. Ne kartą knygose aprašyta tema, tačiau man ji skaitėsi ypatingai. Tokia įtaigi karo sužalotos sielos anatomija, atskleista unikaliu ir labai subtiliu balsu. Man tekstas nuskambėjo net poetiškai. Labai labai rekomenduoju. Knygos autorius ir vertėja laimėjo International Booker (2021) prizą.

This was a very brutal and intense book - but so was the Great War it is about. It tells the story of Alfa Ndiaye, an African soldier fighting for France against Germany in WWI. He is one of the best fighters in his company. The others are scared of this "Chocolate soldier" who cuts off his enemies' hands and call him a demon. When his best friend and soulmate Mademba dies, Alfa goes mad: feeling guilty for his friend's death and particulary for not following his wish to relieve him from his pain he turns into the monster his superiors want him to be. The story sets in when Alfa is in therapy and starts reflecting on what happened. It is frequently repeated that he "understands". In therapy he draws three pictures and through these we learn about his past and origins. Especially in the beginning of the book many details told repeatedly. This makes the writing even more intense and shows how deeply troubled Alfa is by what happened. The book is about a true part of history I hadn't heard about before reading this story: In the First World War France sent about 180.000 soldiers from its colonies to fight the Germans. These soldiers were meant to be wild and scare their adversaries. They even were equipped with machetes to emphasize every racist cliche. Despist all its brutality I'm glad to have read this book and don't quite understand the low ratings.

This short novel packs an enormous punch, and contains so much. Viscerally violent, it’s also incredibly conceptual, intellectual, and poetic. A well deserved winner of the 2021 International Booker.

Camara's rambunctious retelling of the old Gauco epic 'Martin Fierro', reflects the madcap exuberance of an Argentina which was just beginning to forge its path in the world 50 years after gaining independence, an Argentina of grouchy gauchos, of endless expanses and limitless possibilities, an Argentina re-imagined via Cámara's incorrigible imagination, where all of the myths are upended beneath the sweltering skies of he pampas. The protagonist for the novel, who names herself 'China Iron' manages to escape from the tedium of domesticity and her husband when she absconds for a journey with the mysterious Scottish woman Liz. The journey acts as a voyage of self-discovery, as China Iron is finally able to appreciate the beauty of the Argentinian wilderness, from its flora and fauna to the richness of the cultures which exist within in. Along the way they meet up with the quietly sensitive gaucho Rosario and a bevy of other characters from the macho landowner Hernandez to China Iron's own husband Martin Fierro, who has been transformed from a somewhat repugnant drunkard into a poet driven mad by the death of his lover. Rosario develops a relationship with Liz, which also leads to her sexual reawakening, indeed the second half to the novel acts as a celebration of lasciviousness as we are treated to an orgy and multiple love affairs. The novel also explores the racism and prejudices inherent in Argentine society, whether it be the racism which was directed towards the blacks and the native population by the settlers or the snobbery directed at the peasants and gauchos by the upper classes. 'The Adventures of China Iron' is a brilliant and fun retelling of a classic Argentina poem, which not only celebrates Argentina's considerable natural beauty but also the complexity of its nascent culture and the violence which was endemic to large parts of the country.

“Weaving ourselves as one, we were slow to notice that the near nothingness we were crossing was starting to look like an abandoned burial ground; we sloughed on blithely, as if we were traveling through paradise, though maybe I’m wrong, maybe paradise isn’t a place to travel through, it’s simply a place to be.” . The Adventures of China Iron is a novel in three parts and each one almost magically transforms from one thing to another while stitching together the fabric of the characters lives. In 1872 China Iron leaves her home, her husband, and two kids with a British woman named Liz, who is searching for her missing husband, and a dog Estreya. Along this journey they meet a lonely gaucho named Rosario who has his own haunted past that he is dealing with. Throughout the first section, an imagery rich portion that will have Cormac McCarthy fans swooning, we learn the backstory of these three as they form a bond that won’t ever be broken, we also watch as China evolves and her and Liz’s lust for each other begins to blossom . Section two finds us at an estancia run by Hernandez who leads with a dictatorial fist and is the highest law of the land a rather lackluster part in the story that lends a few details towards the outcome of the travelers and what it is they are seeking. It is also where love blooms and begins to take shape and the non conformity of sexuality in this novel takes further steps, setting you up for a third section that is magnificently beautiful . Part III “Indian Territory” brings every character past and present together, secrets are revealed and the confines of love are held to no standard, I do not wish to spoil anything but the geographical and anthropological study lent to this section is unequivocally brilliant. As a whole the adventures of China Iron has again reinforced the fact that Argentinian writers are my favorite and this book has a real chance of winning the international Man Booker.

imagine if rachel cusk wrote funny games

Guys! Ten books in and I may have finally found a winner from the #internationabookerprize longlist. This is one of those books that's best to go in without knowing anything - even a reaction could be a spoiler. I was honestly scared of this one because the idea of a 'slow thriller' sounded like an oxymoron, the length, and that first sentence. I feel like the first sentence is legendary now. Don't let a paragraph long sentence put you off 😅 Once this book grips you, you won't even notice. Everything just starts to flow. The pacing in this was amazing, at almost 450 pages I never found it to drag. Mauvignier knows how and when to dole out enough cliffhangers to keep you going. The writing was the best part for me though, this isn't a dialogue heavy book. Instead you're in each character's head, switching between them seamlessly. The movement between characters thoughts and the past and present was masterful. In doing this he elevates characters from their usual tropey one-dimensionality into characters with more complex thoughts and backstory. I hate to oversell this, but I just had so much fun reading this (reading along with a group of friends definitely adds to it). I felt exhausted at the end because I had to hurry and find out what was going to happen next. There's a payoff to the slow burn in the beginning. This was a wild ride.

Mauvignier’s pen is wild and I’m here for it!

The best book I’ve read in a while! It’s almost 500 pages long and mostly takes place during a single evening—the slowest slow burn ever. But time is taken to get to know each character, the protagonists and the antagonists (Ida is my favorite), so that you’re deeply invested every time something goes wrong for them. And the writing! I love run-on sentences when they’re done right, and the prose is exceptional in this book; every sentence is intentional. I knew I’d love it when the first page was made up of one sentence. I’m obsessed with everything about The Birthday Party and will be thinking about it constantly for weeks to come. (Can someone translate ALL of Laurent Mauvignier’s books so that I can read all of them? Or I’ll learn French. Just for him, I will learn French.)

I'm not sure how this got on my TBR, since it is not what I usually like. It is a thriller. I like thrillers. It is slow-paced. A slow-paced thriller is an oxymoron as far as I am concerned. And it is written in a style I hate: long, long paragraphs, sometimes 2 pages long. Long, long sentences. And no quotation marks to set off dialogue. What is the point of this style? But I absolutely loved this book. It is slowed paced-the better to build up tension. The page of solid words makes it seem like what is happening is somehow inevitable, that horrible things will happen. Originally written in French, the book takes place in a very small hamlet in rural France. Patrice and his daughter Ida are preparing a surprise 40th birthday party for Marion, Patrice's wife and Ida's mother. The elderly artist next door is baking the cakes. Two of Marion's co-workers have been invited for cake and to further surprise Marion. But Marion has a past and it is close to catching up with her. One should not reveal the plots of thrillers, so that's all I will say, other than the ending is wild and violent and very satisfying. 4.75 only because the font in the Fitzcarraldo edition is a little small for these 70 year old eyes. The book itself: 5 stars.

The plot is very immersive, but what makes it so, and what kept my heart pounding and interest piqued for 400 pages was the writing. I’ve never read anything truly like this before and I loved it! The sentences are long, winding streams of consciousness sometimes. Switching between character perspectives throughout the chapters was very effective in building suspense and shaping the whole story from every angle. I was immersed. Everything the author set out to do was accomplished and very effective.

Oh mon dieu . I innocently read this book i wanted to read more modern french writers. I was really really enjoying it wondering at the so different characters came to live so close and become so tied to each other. and then..... all the secrets all the unknowns ,the woman`s friends at work, the young brave girl who loved her Tatie so much- already looking for more books by him .toutes suite.

I absolutely love this book, which I heard about on book tube and was long listed for the international book award of last year. The first half of the book I would classify as mostly literary fiction with some ominous overtones, but then the last half the book moves into being a psychological thriller. This book unfortunately won’t be for everyone because the first half is a little slow moving and the first couple pages do you have some very long sentences. The book has been criticized by some as having some hard to understand pros but once you get in the groove of the book, I found I went along fine. Love the character development and the surreal atmosphere that made me feel like I was in the TV show Twin Peaks. This is basically a home invasion novel that keeps you guessing. The tension is palpable as the book moves to the second half . all the characters are very interesting With the bad guys becoming very creepy and weird. The book is sent in a very small hamlet in France Basically set over a two day period. The climax is around the birthday party. You will not forget for a long time. If you could be patient for the first part of the book, I think you’ll be highly rewarded by the end. This book was simply great in my opinion.

How could I not fall for a novel whose plot superficially resembles the movie 'Ghost'? That's not to say this book was inspired by that film as its use of ghosts caught “In-Between” is rooted in Sri Lankan folklore, but it's the reference which immediately came to my mind when reading this tremendous story. There may not be any Oda Mae Brown, but there is a more sinister self-interested sort of medium called The Crow Man. Thankfully the protagonist is also much more interesting than the blandly good, pretty boy Sam Wheat. Maali Almeida documents atrocities of war and wants tyrants to be held accountable but he is not virtuous. From page one it states that if he had a business card it'd say: “Maali Almeida: Photographer. Gambler. Slut.” He accepts work from shady organizations, loses a lot of his money at a casino and sleeps around with many men behind his (secret) partner DD's back. What's more he's disillusioned with the government and doesn't attach himself to any particular political organization in Sri Lanka which is heavily embroiled in a deadly civil war during the late 80s when this novel is set. Because of all his complexity and so-called “flaws”, I fell in love with this character. At the start of the book Maali wakes to find himself in the liminal space between life and the great beyond. Just like we can't recall birth, he can't recall his death. He's instructed by an official that he has seven moons to decide whether he wants to enter the light or remain as a spectre amongst the living. A countdown begins during which he wants to discover his killer, reconnect with those he loves and reveal to the public shocking evidence of a national scandal. It's satisfying reading a novel built around a certain structure that moves towards a definite ending and the suspenseful way in which this story unravels makes it thrilling to reach the conclusion. We gradually discover details of his life through people he “haunts”, but he also encounters many of the dead victims he got paid for photographing. In addition to those who were actively killed there are the ghosts of those who found life in Sri Lanka untenable and committed suicide. These spirits are raging. There is a tension between those who want to get their revenge and the desire to leave all the pain of life behind. Watch my full review video discussing this novel here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eCRGvX7X8YY I was lucky enough to attend this year's Booker Prize ceremony. You can watch my vlog of the event here (during which I chat with Shehan before the announcement and attend the press conference with him after he's won the prize): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YMeaGY-hefA

Winner of the 2022 Booker Prize. 4th in my longlist rankings (so firmly in my own shortlist) - my Bookstagram rating, ranking, summary review and Book themed Golden Retriever photo is here: https://www.instagram.com/p/ChNgZa_M4... You were born before Elvis had his first hit. And died before Freddie had his last. In the interim, you have shot thousands. You have photos of the government Minister who looked on while the savages of '83 torched Tamil homes and slaughtered the occupants. You have portraits of disappeared journalists and vanished activists, bound and gagged and dead in custody. You have grainy yet identifiable snaps of an army major, a Tiger colonel, and a British arms dealer at the same table, sharing a jug of king coconut …………… If you could, you would make a thousand copies of each photo and paste them all over Colombo. Perhaps you still can. I read this book due to its longlisting for the 2022 Booker Prize – and it has a very strong thematic overlap with “The Trees” (in its treatment of retributive justice carried out by the victims of hate crimes and genocide) and “Glory” with its close examination of a turbulent political scene. I would also describe it as “Lincoln In The Bardo” (with its treatment of a limbo style afterlife) meets “Passage North” (due to its treatment of the Sri Lankan civil war and due to the influence on both books and their authors of Channel 4’s Documentary “The Killing Fields”) with a dose of Arthur C Clarke (Sri Lanka’s greatest writer per the author of this novel and who once said “Behind every man now alive stand thirty ghosts, for that is the ratio by which the dead outnumber the living” for this is a novel about those ghosts). This book was the final one of the longlist of 13 that I read (having read 9 pre-publication of the longlist in late July) and I finished it on 31 July. Hence I completed something I have always aimed for but never managed - reading the full Booker longlist by the end of July, something I achieved with more than just a glance through the covers but a detailed read and set of reviews, and an achievement which my twin brother (a left-armer with an unorthodox taste in books) once called the literary equivalent of 1000 runs by the end of May. The cricket analogies in that previous sentence are deliberate as the author is best known for hugely successful best seller “The Chinaman” (2010) which used the lens of cricket – an unorthodox left-arm spinner and a drunk sports journalist - to examine Sri Lanka. That book was picked recently by the BBC as part of the Big Jubilee reads – the selection of 10 books from each decade of the Queen’s reign. This book (or books) the author’s second novel – was 10 years in its conception, partly due to the success of “The Chinaman”, partly due to life events and partly as it took so long to coalesce into a coherent novel. It was originally published in India in February 2020 by Penguin India as “Chats with the Dead” (note a publication 6 months earlier would have made it possibly Booker ineligible were it counted as the same book – and the two books have been merged on Goodreads). In the UK then book was then picked up by Sort of Books – a small independent publisher founded by the co-founders of the Rough Guide Travel Series (husband and wife team – Mark Ellingham and Natania Jansz) and whose first ever book the living-abroad memoir “Driving Over Lemons” was a huge bestseller and almost genre-defining book. The author has said …… The initial manuscript got a great response from Indian publishers, but seemed to baffle the international ones. Many found the quagmire of Sri Lankan politics in 1989 too hard to follow, and the local mythology perplexing. What began as simple tweaks and edits for clarity, turned into more extensive revisions and rewrites. Penguin India were happy with the book and keen to launch it at the Jaipur Festival, and did so. But Natania and I ended up editing the novel all through the pandemic as our publishing dates kept getting pushed back. It’s the same story in spirit (ha!), with roughly the same characters, but with a few subplots revised. The new version is perhaps tighter, pacier, more textured and nuanced, and hopefully more accessible to a wider audience Now I would say that the book still has a heavy dose of Sri Lankan politics and (particularly Hindu) mythology and at times can feel a little sprawling – but I never found it less than accessible and it has the pacing of a thriller so I think the edits worked. The novel is set in Colombo in 1990 and features as its central character someone with birth name Malinda Albert Kabalana (born 1955) but who goes by the titular Maali Almeida, describes himself as “Photographer, Gambler. Slut”, who is also described by the author as a “hedonist, nihilist, atheist, closet gay” war photographer and who is partly inspired by a real life murdered Sri Lankan journalist (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard... whose quote “Father forgive them for I will never” gives the book its first epigraph and also sets the scene for a novel which like “The Trees” looks at the quandy between vengeance (with its risk of self-perpetuation) and forgiveness (with its risk of an absence of justice). Most crucially at the novel’s opening Maali finds out he is dead – and not just dead, but rather disconcertingly for a life long atheist, in some form of afterlife – albeit not a particularly attractive one. The novel opens “You wake up with the answer to the question that everyone has. The answer is Yes, and the answer is Just Like Here But Worse”. For this is a novel written in the second person. The author has said [Originally] I wrote it in the first person, but I just found it hard to separate his voice from mine and so on, and then I just looked at it technically. When the body dies, what survives death? What is the soul? Is it breath? And I just came to the conclusion that what survives is the voice in your head. And mine is in the second person, it’s always ‘you, you, you’. So when I took that on the book started moving forward, so it worked from a philosophical point of view but also stylistically. And he questions it, ‘does the voice belong to me, or are there ghosts whispering in my ear?’ The afterlife in which Maali finds himself is partly a mash up of Buddhism (with the idea of an in-between Bardo), Catholicism (with a kind of purgatory with some form of prayers for the dead giving currency in the afterlife), Hinduism (with the in-between realm roved by malevolent spirits and in particular the destructive Mahakali who here consumes the souls of those dead not prepared to move on to the next stage of The Light) – but more than anything a chaotic bureaucracy staffed by white coated volunteers from among the dead and with any supreme being seemingly on an indefinite leave. The first bureaucrat Maali meets – he suddenly recognises as Dr Ranee Sridharan – a Tamil university lecturer and campaigner, “slain by Tamil extremists for the crime of being a Tamil moderate”. She explains he has seven moons (seven days) in which to go through a number of stages - in particular an examination of his ear lobes to reveal the complexities of his life and the hindrances which might prevent him entering “The Light”. But he is also approached by the black garbage bag wrapped ghost of Sena Pirantha – a JVP (a militant Communist body fighting a fierce war against the government) organiser. Sena claims that both he and Maali were victims of a hit squad including garbage men (a clean-up crew of body disposers with a sleeper Tamil agent driver), corrupt policemen, an army major, the chief torturer of the STF (Special Task Force who carry out abductions on suspected JVP or LTTE/Tamil Tiger members) and ultimately a government minister. Sena wants Maali to reject the promise of the light and instead join him in seeking vengeance on their murderers. The book is effectively structured as a thriller/murder mystery with Maali trying to reconstruct the events that led to his violent death (which appears to have been caused when he was thrown of a tall building housing a casino that he frequently visited) and work out who killed him. The range of potential killers is large as Maali lead a complex professional life – working as a war photographer (and part fixer) for a variety of different and often opposed groups including the army, some international journalists and an NGO. This murky role is made even more complicated by his suspicion that some of the journalists might be fronts for arms dealers, that the NGO may have links to the army and/or the LTTE and that the army and Tamil’s dealings are complicated both by the increasingly unwelcome presence to both of the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) and the army’s willingness to deal with Tamil factions that might allow them to capture the LTTE Supreme Leader. Malli’s photos, a cache of which he keeps hidden from his clients, potentially expose these double dealings as well as the complicity of government ministers in past atrocities. As an aside the book includes a helpful guide that Maali wrote to a fellow journalist explaining these groups and more and which ends “Don’t try and look for the good guys, ‘cause there ain’t none”. And Maali’s personal life is as duplicitous and complex as his professional one. He shares a house with Jaki and her cousin Dilan (DD). Dilan is the son of the only Tamil minister in the government. Jaki is ostensibly Maali’s girlfriend, but they are not sexually or romantically involved (despite her seeming wishes) and instead Maali has a hidden sexual relationship with DD (hidden from Jaki to avoid unsetting her and from DD’s father as homosexuality is still largely taboo) while also carrying out a string of casual sexual encounters with men (which are in turn hidden from DD). Now Maali needs Jaki and DD to find his hidden cache of photos, ones he has always intended to publish in exile but not wants to publish in exile from life – but that risks exposing them to severe danger and him to discovery of the duplicity in his personal life. The author comes up with an imaginative way of allowing Maali to be both omnipresent but also close to the opposite of omnipotent as he navigates a Colombo which is both the living version and the one occupied by ghosts, which given the violence which has racked Sri Lanka is even more relatively populous than Arthur C Clarke’s quote would employ and of ghosts tormented by the natures of their deaths and lives. Ghosts in this afterlife can travel wherever their dead body has been (allowing him to trace the grisly disposal of his body) and wherever their name is posthumously mentioned (allowing him and us to travel instantaneously around the various conflicted protagonists involved, implicated on interested in his disappearance at the precise moments they are discussing him). However the ability of the dead to influence the living is restricted either to (the official approach urged by Dr Ranee) inserting themselves in dreams (this leads to a lovely King and Queen hint to the location of some critical negatives) or by more nefarious means which require involvement with the vengeful spirits which patrol the afterlife (as urged by Sena) – and Maali finds himself (perhaps not surprisingly given his professional and personal life) rather unsuccessfully playing both sides as he decides between moving on and vengeance in a plot which is never less than exuberant and fast moving. Overall, this is a very striking book – one with a black humour which allows an unflinching look at the horrors of Civil War and one which fits really well on a very strong Booker longlist. With thanks to the author’s publicity agent for an ARC. All stories are recycled and all stories are unfair. Many get luck, and many get misery. Many are born to homes with books, many grow up in the swamps of war. In the end, all becomes dust. All stories conclude with a fade to black.

Now the winner of the 2022 Booker Prize Admittedly, when this made the longlist for the Booker prize, I wasn't very interested in reading it. Somewhere between the shortlist announcement and it being available on Kindle for less than $8 though, I said what the heck and jumped right in. I'm so glad I took that chance as this is nothing short of brilliant. At the beginning, I was a bit unsure of where it was going, and I will admit that it can be a bit hard to follow at times, but you know what? Sometimes, when reading, you just need to pay attention. If you're looking for an "easy read," then this might not be for you. With that said, I was highly entertained but also deeply moved, and by the end, my attention paid was more than rewarded. So what's it about? It's about Sri Lanka and political corruption. It's about life and death. It's about reality and metaphysics. Above all, it's about the title character, Maali Almeida. Our story begins with him in the afterlife; a place that, having grown up in a developing country myself, looked all too familiar to me with its bureaucratic red tape and jaded workers. He has no clue how he got there, he hasn't a clue that he's even dead. In its 400 pages, the book tries to piece together the who and the why, but from its very first page, it establishes that this is no ordinary ghost story. An apt description would be Beetlejuice if Salman Rushdie had written it- irreverent, hilarious, and more than a little creepy. As I've said, this won't be a book the average reader will breeze through. It requires time, patience, and undivided attention. The story started off a little slow, but when it got going, I was hooked. In the hands of another, less capable writer, this could have been a mess. And you know what? As a hodgepodge of different genres, it probably is. As a satire told in a nonlinear style, though, that kinda feels like the point. At the time of writing this, I wasn't yet done with Glory and I probably won't read Treacle Walker, so I may not be qualified to say if this was the most deserving winner of the Booker shortlist. I will say, though, that I'm so so glad it won. It's a daring piece of work, one that I will definitely be reading again. A long, funny, violent, macabre, engaging story. My sincerest gratitude to the Booker committee for introducing me to such an amazing writer.

The year 1989 has just ended when our dearly departed narrator introduces himself with a disappointing revelation: “You wake up with the answer to the question that everyone asks. The answer is Yes, and the answer is Just Like Here But Worse. That’s all the insight you’ll ever get. So you might as well go back to sleep.” That voice — poking you in the face with its brash cynicism — belongs to the ghost of Maali Almeida, who was, until very recently, a reckless photojournalist, a chronic gambler and an unreliable boyfriend in Colombo, Sri Lanka. Initially, the afterlife feels like an LSD trip at a poorly staffed customer return center. But once Maali gets to the front of a queue, he learns that he’s dead. To prepare his spirit for eternity with The Light, he has one week — “seven moons.” That makes a tight schedule for Maali and a breakneck pace for readers because this is a ghost with an attitude and a lot of unfinished business. For one, Maali isn’t sure how he died, and watching goons chop up his corpse with a cleaver doesn’t provide as much clarity as you might expect. After all, in life, Maali accepted photography gigs from anybody who would pay him — government officials, foreign journalists, human rights organizations, even (possible) spies. And he freely snapped pictures of things no one wanted him to see. “They say the truth will set you free,” Maali notes, “though in Sri Lanka the truth can land you in a cage.” Knowing how dangerous his homeland is, Maali always prided himself on his discretion, a quality perfected as a closeted gay man in a violently homophobic society. But apparently, somebody wanted to guarantee his silence. Now, reduced to airy thinness, Maali will find justice only if he can publish a secret cache of his most incendiary pictures, “photos that will bring down. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

Amendment to any recommendation of this book is that you are going to have to engage with Sri Lankan politics and history to get the most out of this book. I'm more convinced than ever that this book isn't for everyone, but it's for me 1000%. If I were to dream up my ideal book, it would probably be a magical realist satire of political corruption starring a morally grey queer character contemplating the meaning of life. That's what this is! Hope this helps. Absolutely shocked by how well a booker prize winner worked for me, almost makes up for me reading Bewilderment by Richard Powers two years ago I have been burned by the Booker prize, so imagine my surprise to have had such a good time with this book. I did try and summarize it for my sister last night and failed epically, so I apologize in advance for this scattered review. This isn’t a blanket recommendation of this book — if you aren’t interested in engaging with Sri Lankan history, this book won’t be for you. I was moving between the book and several google searches about Sri Lankan politics, the Tamils, and the civil war. But I was so engaged with it. Separate from the political and social references, I found this book very funny. Maali Almeida is an at-times hilarious narrator. I also found his character as half Tamil, half Sinhalese, working as a photographer without political affiliation, leant a really fascinating point of view on the violence in the country. It’s satire and magical realism, and the storytelling structure of this is hard to describe and hard to follow at times. (The book counts down Maali’s week as a ghost, or his seven moons, but you also jump between memories of his experiences when he was alive, his friends and family’s reactions to his death, and him navigating the ghost world of Colombo.) Anyway, a rare award winner I feel was worthy of the award. A few comps: the character study and structure of The Death Of Vivek Oji, with the reflections on Sri Lankan history of A Passage North, with the satirical narrator of Black Buck? Maybe, even that might reduce it too much. The audiobook was also great, but I appreciated reading and listening to this one together.

Bulgarian review first, followed by the English translation below ”I was a pro. My life was a con.” Част от проблемите на Малинда Алмейда Кабалана през 1990 г. започват веднага след смъртта му. Сами по себе си, нито смъртта, нито проблемите (от всевъзможен характер) са нещо чуждо на Маали. Той е военен фоторепортер, който с рядка безпристрастност и самоотверженост снима трупове от всякаква етническа принадлежност из родната си Шри Ланка. Шриланкийците, както се оказва, не са спирали да се избиват от деколонизацията си през 1948 г. насам. Синхалското правителство, на хартия борещо тероризма (?) на тамилските тигри, също е много сръчно в “изчезването” на неудобни любители на истината, активисти по човешките права или просто спретва постановки с известен брой мъртъвци. Изобщо създаването на единна нация от воюващи един с друг етноси, военни с любов към властта и политици с още по-голяма любов към корупцията на един мъничък остров, прочут с чая и прекрасната си природа, е доста кървав процес. Но освен, че снима не където, не когато и не когото трябва, Маали изпитва непреодолима привързаност към: a/ хазарта (винаги губи) и б/ красивите момчета (не стига, че може да си докара 10 години затвор с това, че е гей, но на всичкото отгоре не може да бъде верен само на един любим човек, даже когато най-сетне го е срещнал). За съжаление, светът след смъртта му се оказва точно толкова сложен и заплетен като собствения му личен живот и вътрешното положение в Шри Ланка. Маали разполага със седем луни да открие кой го е убил (опциите са доста), да разгласи някои истини, да си отговори на всички житейски въпроси, мъчили човечеството още от появата на първата искрица съзнание, и да реши дали все пак да потегли към Светлината и към евентуално ново прераждане. Или пък да се включи в онези фракции на различните призрачни създания, които по най-разнообразни причини се мотаят из царството на смъртните и творят допълнителни проблеми в него. Самият Маали е неустоима смесица от идеализъм, цинизъм, протест и хедонизъм, която го сближава с всички и с никого. Самият писател пък е неустоима смесица от разнообразни философски въпроси, иронична насмешка, мъничко (всъщност много!) тъга и изненадващи сюжетни хватки, надсмиващи се над стандартни жанрови рамки. Стоях на нокти до последната луна, където сюжетно нещата можеха да се оплескат поради задълбаване в някое религиозно или политкоректно клише, но за моя радост те в по-голямата си част са избегнати. Не че липсват съвсем, но пируетите се оказаха достатъчно и занимателни. Над тази книга човек може да се понатъжи, поядоса и направо повбеси, да се позамисли, да се трогне и да се посмее. Но едва ли може да остане безразличен. А безразличието, между другото, е една от многото теми в сюжета. 4,5⭐️ П.П. Маали има силна духовна връзка със Сирил от ”Невидимите фурии на сърцето”. Но въпреки фантастичния елемент и игрите на абсурда, Маали ми беше много по-близък до сърцето. Стилът на Бойн далеч не ме докосна така, както този на Карунатилака. **** ▶️ Цитати: ☸️ “For atheists there are only moral choices. “ ☸️ “Even the afterlife is designed to keep the masses stupid,” 🇱🇰 “To an outsider, the Sri Lankan tragedy will appear confusing and irreparable. It needn’t be either. Here are the main players. […] The nation divides into races, the races divide into factions and the factions turn on each other. Whoever is in the opposition will preach multiculturalism and then enforce Sinhala Buddhist dominance in exchange for power. You are not the only outsider here, Andy. There are many others as confused as you are. […] It’s not that complicated, my friend. Don’t try and look for the good guys ’cause there ain’t none. Everyone is proud and greedy and no one can resolve things without money changing hands or fists being raised.” 📸 “I need the world to see what I saw.’ ‘That is ego. That is all illusion.” 🇱🇰 “Does every Minister have a demon?’ ‘Only the very best.” 🇱🇰 “Do not listen to Bad Samaritans. Demand your justice. ” ☸️ “History is people with ships and weapons wiping out those who forgot to invent them” 📸 “All stories are recycled and all stories are unfair.” “So we make up stories because we’re afraid of the dark.” ☸️ “Maybe not believing in gods gives you permission to become a demon.’ ‘As if believing in God or karma keeps you kind.” ☸️ “The order is made to appear natural.” ☸️ “Organised collectives of evil doers who think they are performing the work of the righteous. That is what should make us shudder.” 🐆 “Everybody is just trying not to get eaten. I need a break from the food chain.” ”I was a pro. My life was a con.” Part of Malinda Almeida Kabalana's problems in 1990 begin immediately after his death. In themselves, neither death nor problems (of every conceivable nature) are anything foreign to Maali. He is a war photojournalist who, with rare impartiality and selflessness, films corpses of every ethnicity across his native Sri Lanka. Sri Lankans, as it turns out, haven't stopped killing each other since their decolonization in 1948. The Sinhalese government, on paper fighting the terrorism (?) of the Tamil Tigers, is also very adept at "disappearing" inconvenient truth-seekers and human rights activists, or simply staging scenes with a certain number of dead bodies. In general, creating a unified nation from warring ethnicities, power-hungry military men, and politicians with an even greater love for corruption on a tiny island famous for its tea and beautiful nature is a rather bloody process. But besides filming where, when, and whom he shouldn't, Maali feels an irresistible attachment to: a) gambling (he always loses) and b) beautiful boys (not only could he get 10 years in prison for being gay, but on top of that, he cannot be faithful to just one beloved person, even when he has finally met him). Unfortunately, the world after his death turns out to be just as complex and tangled as his own personal life and the internal situation in Sri Lanka. Maali has seven moons to discover who killed him (the options are many), to publicize certain truths, to answer all the existential questions that have plagued humanity since the first spark of consciousness, and to decide whether to set off toward the Light and a possible reincarnation. Or perhaps to join those factions of various ghostly entities who, for diverse reasons, linger in the realm of mortals and cause additional problems within it. Maali himself is an irresistible blend of idealism, cynicism, protest, and hedonism that draws him close to everyone and no one. The writer himself is an irresistible mix of diverse philosophical questions, ironic mockery, a little (actually a lot!) of sadness, and surprising plot twists that thumb their nose at standard genre frameworks. I was on edge until the last moon, where the plot could have faltered due to delving into some religious or politically correct cliché, but to my delight, they were mostly avoided. Not that they are entirely absent, but the pirouettes proved entertaining and engaging enough. Over this book, one can feel saddened, annoyed, and outright infuriated, can reflect, be moved, and laugh. But one can hardly remain indifferent. And indifference, by the way, is one of the many themes in the plot. 4.5⭐️ P.S. Maali has a strong spiritual connection with Cyril from The Heart's Invisible Furies. But despite the fantastic element and the games of the absurd, Maali was much closer to my heart. Boyne's style didn't touch me nearly as much as Karunatilaka's. **** ☸️ “For atheists there are only moral choices. “ ☸️ “Even the afterlife is designed to keep the masses stupid,” 🇱🇰 “To an outsider, the Sri Lankan tragedy will appear confusing and irreparable. It needn’t be either. Here are the main players. […] The nation divides into races, the races divide into factions and the factions turn on each other. Whoever is in the opposition will preach multiculturalism and then enforce Sinhala Buddhist dominance in exchange for power. You are not the only outsider here, Andy. There are many others as confused as you are. […] It’s not that complicated, my friend. Don’t try and look for the good guys ’cause there ain’t none. Everyone is proud and greedy and no one can resolve things without money changing hands or fists being raised.” 📸 “I need the world to see what I saw.’ ‘That is ego. That is all illusion.” 🇱🇰 “Does every Minister have a demon?’ ‘Only the very best.” 🇱🇰 “Do not listen to Bad Samaritans. Demand your justice. ” ☸️ “History is people with ships and weapons wiping out those who forgot to invent them” 📸 “All stories are recycled and all stories are unfair.” “So we make up stories because we’re afraid of the dark.” ☸️ “Maybe not believing in gods gives you permission to become a demon.’ ‘As if believing in God or karma keeps you kind.” ☸️ “The order is made to appear natural.” ☸️ “Organised collectives of evil doers who think they are performing the work of the righteous. That is what should make us shudder.” 🐆 “Everybody is just trying not to get eaten. I need a break from the food chain.”

‘The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida by Shehan Karunatilaka was a surprise for me! I was pleased by the literary excellence of the writing even while at the same time I also was shocked and saddened by its subject. I knew nothing of Sri Lanka before I picked up this book. I have copied the book blurb: ”Colombo, 1990. Maali Almeida—war photographer, gambler, and closet queen—has woken up dead in what seems like a celestial visa office. His dismembered body is sinking in the serene Beira Lake and he has no idea who killed him. In a country where scores are settled by death squads, suicide bombers, and hired goons, the list of suspects is depressingly long, as the ghouls and ghosts with grudges who cluster round can attest. But even in the afterlife, time is running out for Maali. He has seven moons to contact the man and woman he loves most and lead them to the photos that will rock Sri Lanka. Ten years after his prize-winning novel Chinaman established him as one of Sri Lanka’s foremost authors, Shehan Karunatilaka is back with a “thrilling satire” (Economist) and rip-roaring state-of-the-nation epic that offers equal parts mordant wit and disturbing, profound truths. When I pick up a Booker Prize winning novel (‘The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida’ won in 2022), I do so with some trepidation. One never can tell what kind of horror is about to be revealed! I am not talking about the genre category of horror, gentler reader. A Booker winner can have either a difficult writing style or subject, and often both. I’ve learned to expect the story will be either intellectually or literally challenging to read because of its postmodern construction or that it is deceptively dull with domestic concerns for awhile. (I hate domestic fiction, generally.) Then, WHAM! The world-building, the characters, or the plot will suddenly be turned upside down and inside out, everything different from initial expectations, even while often at the same time I have found myself becoming slowly more and more astonished, and full of admiration, for the literary flourishes or literary muscularity of the prose. Reading a Booker Prize-winning novel is like eating a new ice cream flavor - one doesn’t know whether it will be tasty or too weird to swallow. Frankly, as my literary explorations of different genres and prize winners have continued for many years now, Booker winners are becoming my favorites. Pulitzer winners can be surprisingly pedestrian sometimes, dully conventional even if full of literary symbolism. But Booker winners, they all seem to be especially witty and fresh even when involving age-old or fast-fashion topics. I still am often frustrated by the lack of connection to the characters in literary prize-winning novels, because characters are often created to be pointy spears revealing Humanity in its convoluted worst states of being more than to be living breathing persons in prize-winning novels. I did not think I would be emotional on finishing ‘The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida’, but I unexpectedly am. Despite the book’s brittle satirical tone, sometimes a savage spew, with nearly constant spitting outrage over Sri Lankan’s political corruption and violence, I am feeling elegiac, lost, hurting. Why can’t people be better than they are? Why do parents and political leaders sacrifice their children’s and citizens’ happiness and future because of their own personal ambitions? I’ve read other novels that cover the same ground as does this one, but unexpectedly the main narrator Maali has gotten under my skin. I cannot stand the ‘you’ perspective normally either, but in this case I hardly noticed after awhile. Poor Maali. Poor us. Eternally ever so.

I loved this conversations with the dead-style exploration of the complex history of Sri Lanka’s Civil War. Magical realism is often hit or miss for me, but in this instance it’s a real winner. This is a zesty, vibrant, grim, critical exploration of the meaningless nature of conflict. It’s not perfectly paced, but it’s original, challenging, and engaging reading in equal measure. I wouldn’t be sad if this won the Booker.

I don’t normally tend to enjoy Booker Prize-winning novels: heavy themes and weighty writing aren’t generally for me. But I had my eye on Shehan Karunatilaka’s The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida for a while, and the Booker tipped me over the edge. And I’m glad it did: this novel is a ride and a half. The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida is told from the perspective of a murdered Sri Lankan photographer of the Civil War, who is stumbling through an afterlife-y limbo, trying to find out who is responsible for his murder. Through his eyes, as through a mirror darkly, we see the violence, the brutality, and the absurdity of the War. There is, of course, a tradition of writing to which this belongs: parts of The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida reminded me of Eka Kurniawan’s Beauty is a Wound, which also begins with the awakening of a dead person, and deals with the massacre of communists in 1960s Indonesia. A more distant analogy is Orhan Pamuk’s My Name is Read, where one of the narrative points-of-view is of a murdered person. But The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida is very much its own book; its style - humorous, irreverent, light as breath on glass - is reminiscent of something that Joseph Brodsky wrote in his introduction to the work of Danilo Kis: "By virtue of his place and time alone, Danilo Kis is able to avoid the faults of urgency which considerably marred the works of his listed and unlisted predecessors. Unlike them, he can afford to treat tragedy as a genre, and his art is more devastating than statistics." At the same time, though, there are moments of gravitas that stand out all the more: for example, in one passage, we are told that a dead person’s ghost can only move in those parts of the physical world where there name is remembered and spoken of; and as their name fades from people’s memory, they can move less and less in the world. It is quite impossible to describe just how moving this was, amidst the themes of war and violence that the book deals with. The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida turned out to be one of the best books I’ve read this year - right up to the ending, which Karunatilaka sticks brilliantly - and I’d very much recommend it.

"Do not be afraid of ghosts, it is the living we should fear. Human horrors trump anything that Hollywood or the afterlife can conjure" "Karma is worse than any bullshit god. It tells us to do nothing about the suffering of others" What a haunting yarn (excuse the pun) this book is! The author does it again - the subtext standing out loud and clear in a seemingly crazy story - almost Hellerish. Talk about tangential! Malinda Albert Kabalana - Photographer, Gambler and Slut - finds himself in the bureaucratic lounge of afterlife where unresponsive executives give confusing directions. As his ghost wanders wherever his name is mentioned or his body is getting disposed off - Mali is trying to find his murderer. One small complication - in life, he was a war photographer who worked with all merchants of horror and murderers. He was also a compulsive gambler and an unfaithful partner to both his boyfriend and his best friend. The book is graphic in it's treatment sparing no details of the human cruelty of genocide and war - all slipped in between dark humor and leaps of imagination of the afterlife inspired by scriptures. In one of the short chapters he creates a cheat-sheet for an outsider to make sense of the political scenario to an American journalist - "Don't try to look for the good guys cause there ain't none" The subtle twists towards the end is just an appeaser and a lot of wishful thinking. The book is no joyride but a not-so-subtle hardhitting piece that happens to be clever and witty. Funny and heartbreaking at the same time.

What a pleasant surprise this book turned out to be! It's part mystery, part afterlife absurdism with all the metaphysical trappings that come with it, with a dollop of historical fiction revolving around a civil war, imbued in the idiosyncrasies of the subcontinent. All mixed in precisely the exact portions. Silly, poignant, relatable and sad. Also written in second person, which is something you don't see often. Essential reading for South Asian readers and a strong recommend for all others. (I suggest reading the Wiki page of the Sri Lankan civil war before diving in if you are unfamiliar with the broad strokes of it)

Muah. A grittier mashup of Lincoln in the Bardo and A Christmas Carol.

** spoiler alert ** oh, oh, and OH! Loved this one. Not too far into the first chapter I realized that this book and I were going to get along just fine, and I was so right. The author sets his story in 1990, and as it opens, the main character Maali Almeida wakes up (as he believes) "hungover" to find himself in an "endless waiting room" not knowing how he got there. He is sure that he's hallucinating, having a "trippy dream" from the "silly pills" given to him by his friend Jaki, but he's actually awoken in the afterlife where he is standing in a queue. Evidently it is as completely disorganized as any typical earthly bureaucracy, with plenty of people complaining and the office "short-staffed and looking for volunteers." The woman who seems to be checking him in hands him a dried printed palm leaf, telling him that he needs to get his ears checked, his "deaths counted," his "sins coded" and his "moons registered," and that he (along with everyone else coming in that day) has "seven moons." Here seven moons equates to seven days, rather than the typically-understood idea of moons as months; Almeida is also handed a checklist of things to be taken care of before he can enter "The Light," which is, as the woman notes, "Whatever You Need It To Be." That is the short answer; later he will learn that all who come here to "wander the In Between" have his or her allotted moons "To recall past lives. And then, to forget." For some remaining in the In Between, however, "forgetting cures nothing," believing that "Wrongs must be remembered." Very briefly, largely because I'm so behind here, in 1990, Sri Lankans were in the thick of that country's civil war which had begun in 1983 and didn't end until 2009. It was a violent, horrific time, with death squads everywhere and scores of people being murdered or disappeared, many never to surface again. Maali Almeida is a photographer who had a complicated life, as noted at the beginning when he talks about what his business card might have said about him: "Maali Almeida: Photographer. Gambler. Slut." He had lost lots of money at the casinos, was (as quoted in the dustjacket blurb) a sort of outcast "closet gay" in love with his friend DD (although he sleeps around on his many travels) and more importantly, he had been witness to the terror and the carnage through his work as a fixer for various groups including politicians, army officers, NGOs, the press, and other dubious clients. He figured that by working on all sides, he would be seen as favoring none of them, a strategy that in hindsight, obviously didn't work out well for him. He had also taken a number of photographs that as he had once told his friends, could "topple the government," now sitting in envelopes in a box under his bed. These photos are incriminating to the point that if seen, "this country will burn again," but he had hoped that by making them public they might bring some sort of accountability and judgment, especially against those who participated in the 1983 massacres and other atrocities, or quite possibly even end the conflict. Part of what Maali needs to accomplish during his seven-moon span is to somehow have his closest friends DD and Jaki take out and exhibit these photos publicly, but there are certain constraints in place that make it difficult for him to make contact directly with the living, so he has to learn to rely on the dead (and in one case, a creepy medium linking both worlds) to help him in his task. But that's not all -- he also wants to solve the mystery of his own death. As time starts to tick down, another mission is added to this lineup -- he will somehow need to protect his friends who, in the aftermath of Maali's photos, get caught up in a chain of events putting their lives in jeopardy. This is a book I just could not stop reading, and the way the author structured his story I thought was absolute genius. It is a mix of historical fiction, humor and political satire in which the author not only exposes the horrors of these dark years, but also through the many ghosts with whom Maali Almeida speaks, imagines what those who died during this conflict might say if only they had a voice, making me wish that the book's original title, Chats With the Dead would have been retained. It is also part ghost story and part whodunit, for me an unbeatable combination. As seen in both the afterlife and in earthly life, the novel also speaks to those in positions of power who put their own self interests ahead of everything else, making it a timely read for sure. It's one of the most original books I've had the pleasure to have read in a long while, and most certainly a book I can recommend.

Oh gosh. I can see why this is so divisive, yet I wanted to hug this book at the end. Hear me out. This book is divided into eight chapters - most referred to as Moons, the last one as something different - and, as I'm sure you're aware, set against the backdrop of the Sri Lankan civil war which raged through the eighties and on into the nineties. Now, if you're anything like me, this may not be a subject you're too well-versed in. So for the benefit of a wider audience, there is a lot of exposition that Karunatilaka has to set up, for the plot and background to make sense. He has the added task of getting us up to speed with historical context, as well as introducing characters, setting, and relationships. Naturally, this takes a while. However, once the book hit halfway through, I blasted through it. It's Agatha Christie meets Salman Rushdie, with a sprinkling of The Good Place. Add to that the protagonist, Maali, is a gay guy who isn't entirely sure what he wants, and doesn't always - to put it lightly - make the best decisions, and it made it very relatable for me. It also brings up questions that many gay men may ask themselves once they hit their thirties (Maali and I are roughly the same age...ahem): what will my legacy be? Will I leave anything behind? Will I be remembered, if I don't procreate and carry on the family lineage? The purpose of life is questioned and handled brilliantly. This, for me, ranks up there with the likes of Midnight's Children and The House of the Spirits as a work of magic realism set amid a time of great social and political turbulence. Thoroughly rewarding, and I'm glad I persevered with it because the pay off, for me, was most definitely worth it.

“We must all find pointless causes to live for, or why bother with breath? Because, on reflection, once you have seen your own face and recognised the colour of your eyes, tasted the air and smelled the soil, drunk from the purest fountains and the dirtiest wells, that is the kindest thing you can say about life. Its's not nothing.” I think a perfect way to describe Chats with the Dead would be as a mix of Lincoln in the Bardo and The Sellout, two previous Booker winners I also loved a lot. Shehan Karunatilaka's iteration of the afterlife is much more zany and chaotic, a ghostly limbo populated with spirits and their handles where the newly dead have seven days to get their affairs in order and move to the next stage to avoid getting trapped in this purgatory at the mercy of, or turn into, the ghouls and pretas that populate it. Maali must navigate these stiff undercurrents as he solves his murder and tries to send messages to the people he left behind. Much has been stated about the inaccessibility of this original version, its "obscure" Sri Lankan 80s politics and mythology, that it needed to be "revised for a global audience". My opinions on the matter remain unchanged and have in fact been reinforced now that I have read it. There's nothing so incomprehensible here that can't be contextualized with a Google search. Chats is an extremely indulgent novel, exhibiting a brilliant imagination at work. The narrative handles its tragic/serious and comedic/trivial elements well. Queer, phallic-obsessed, irreverent, the book is surreally grounded in corporeality and the body.

Mary Lawson has been on my list of favorite writers ever since I read Crow Lake a number of years ago. I was compelled to read her other two novels and now this, her latest. In all of them she writes about families, sometimes in crisis, sometimes dysfunctional, always struggling, families who will move you. Her characters are so clearly and beautifully written, shaped by circumstances of their family situation, ones they don’t always have control over . She takes you to the towns she writes about and from the first pages, she invites you not just to visit, but to live there for a while. She takes you so easily into the minds and hearts of her characters and she allows you to know them, feel what they are feeling and to feel for them. By the end of her books, you don’t want to leave them behind. In the 1970’s in a small town called Solace in Northern Ontario, Canada, we meet three characters who are connected to each other indelibly. In alternating chapters, with three points of view, it is in many ways a quiet story, my favorite kind. Seven year old Clara is smart and wise and sad, sweet with innocence and one of the most responsible children I know in books or in real life. Clara carries the burdens of loss and grief that are difficult even for adults to handle and I dare you not to be heartbroken for her. The kind Mrs.Orchard, Clara’s next door neighbor and friend speaks to her dead husband and lives with memories of a little boy she loved who once lived next door to them. As her story evolves, it’s a sad story of loss, that is tempered by the love she and her husband share. Liam, an unhappy man at a crossroads in his life has his own memories, mostly of a sad childhood, until some beautiful memories surface when he comes to Solace. Lawson beautifully portrays how these three characters touch each other lives in ways that are filled with love and care. I was once again moved by Lawson and I could not recommend her novels more.

LONGLISTED FOR THE BOOKER PRIZE 2021 I'm always so happy to find a wonderful Canadian author AND a great Canadian story! 🇨🇦 Why have I never read any of this author's previous books? Her prose is beautiful and the story captivating! Her characters and setting just come alive! The narrators of this Audiobook were absolutely amazing! It's 1972 in a small town in Northern Ontario, Canada (and can I just say Mary Lawson captured the essence of this setting so well!) The story is told from 3 points of view. Clara, an almost 8 year old girl whose 16 year old sister has just run away from home, Liam a newly divorced man from Toronto who has just inherited a house up north, and Elizabeth (Mrs. Orchard) who is Clara's neighbour and is in hospital. Their stories all eventually intertwine. This was a delight to listen to and yet this is another book that I'm disappointed did not make any of the GoodReads Awards nominations. I will be looking into this author's backlist for sure!

A sleepy little North Ontario town, Solace, covered in a cloak of depression. It’s the 1970’s. We meet Clara, an 8 year old who patiently waits at the front window for her runaway sister. Her next door neighbour Mrs. Orchard, has gone in for surgery but will not be returning. Liam, the city dweller, has arrived at the Orchard residence. 3 characters. All suffering from life’s affliction of loneliness; fear of the future; fear of the unknown. My heart aches as I have come to love them all. Clara, for her courageous strength and curiousity. Liam, the small boy who became a man recalling early memories of joy he had with the Orchard’s; Mrs. Orchard and her barren womb, who loved that little boy and wished he was her own. So much so a plan was hatched. She recalls the past through her lively conversations with her deceased husband’s spirit. The grief, the brokenness of losses yet the compassion each had despite their pain. How they were in each other’s lives, at just the right time, in a place that gave them comfort. Oh Lawson! I’m almost speechless. This was a balm for my soul. I don’t want to leave these characters who have now snuggled their way into my heart. 5⭐️ 5⭐️

I love Mary Lawson's writing and story telling. She knows how to tug at my heartstrings without leaving me feeling manipulated. A Town Called Solace in no exception. Set in the early 1970s, in a small town in northern Ontario, this is a beautiful story -- full of sadness, things left unsaid, people trying to be kind and people trapped by the limits of their own personalities and circumstances. The story is told from three points of view. Clara is seven years old and is worried about her sister Rose's recent disappearance. Elizabeth, Clara's neighbour, tells her story from her hospital bed as she lies dying. Liam moves into Elizabeth's house, with his own complicated baggage. There's a beautiful symmetry in the connection between these three characters. The story telling is low key but the emotions are intense. Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for an opportunity to read an advance copy.

Reading Mary Lawson, I disappear into her characters and locales so deeply that when I look up from the book, I am always a little shocked at where I am. Are those my things? Oh yes, that’s my art on the walls, I’m lying on my couch. But I could have sworn I was in Northern Ontario having the experience of the people she writes so truthfully that they become me, or I them. I really can’t articulate it except to say I’m blubbery with admiration. A Town Called Solace, like her other books, is about family relationships. And even though it doesn’t delve into themes I’d call “Shakespearean” because of their complexity and universal truths—themes of her earlier books, Crow Lake , Road Ends , and The Other Side of the Bridge —it is no less affecting. Her dialog is so good it could easily translate to theater (this play could effortlessly be staged—part reader’s theater and part regular theater). Her transitions from first-person chapters to third are natural and effortless. Mary Lawson, a quietly brilliant creator, is one of my favorite writers. I will read anything she writes and hope she produces another book while I’m still in a body to savor it.

FINAL REVIEW: I’m laughing. I’m laughing because I already know that I’m not going to be able to convince anyone to pick up this book unless they already had a mild interest in it. But here we go. You got me, Mary Lawson. You really got me. In A TOWN CALLED SOLACE, we’re introduced to seven-year-old Clara, whose rebellious teenage sister has gone missing. While Clara takes vigil at the front window, awaiting her sister’s safe return, a mysterious man moves into the house next door. From that synopsis, you probably think you can figure out where the story is heading. You don’t. Then again, with this premise, you’ll be forgiven for thinking this novel is aiming to be a thriller or a whodunit or any genre along those lines. Instead, this is an intimate character-driven story using the backdrop of a mystery in a small town to explore heavy themes such as grief, loss, fragility, vulnerability, crime, and parenting. As for that last one, parenting plays a huge role throughout this narrative, even in the side plots. I guess I should’ve mentioned that this story is told through three separate perspectives and in three timelines. Yup, three character voices, three timelines, and all three work. There’s a driving element in each one that makes you want to dive deeper and turn the pages, because ultimately that is what this book is designed to do. Didn’t I just say it was an intimate character study? My, my, aren’t I full of contradictions? But to further delve into the theme of parenting, the questions of “why do we have children?”, “what do we make of children?” and “how do children fit into our lives?” are ponderings that trickle across the entire spectrum of this novel. This is especially prevalent in a particular storyline which involves a character named Elizabeth, and let’s just say that this storyline did not sit well with several readers. But for this reader right here, it was the perspective that worked best for me, the one that was the most successful and convincing. Sure, this development/reveal/action could be seen as a bit cliché and maybe even derivative, but Lawson sold the hell out of it for me; this character was deeply flawed and I don’t think it’s a coincidence that this perspective is the only one told in first person. It’s unreliable at best, completely skewed at worst. The way Elizabeth spent time judging another character made me really wonder if what I was reading was the truth or was it a justification for her actions, therefore that storyline is somewhat of a lie? Anyway, let’s not get into it. Read the book first, then we’ll talk. Here’s the thing with Lawson’s writing, she takes familiar storylines (or tropes, if you insist on calling it that) and injects something so helplessly beautiful and masterful into it. Maybe you think you’ve read this story before, but so what? You haven’t read it like this, have you? One of the most fascinating aspects of this novel is that if you really take a step back, it’s a very dark little thing. The way the core storyline is resolved is unbelievably messed up, and in the hands of another writer, it would’ve been marred in misery. But here, Lawson treats it just like the rest of the slice of life aspects of her book. It isn’t given a narrative centerpiece, it isn’t given an arresting finish. In a way, Lawson is trying to convey that this too is part of life. Life comes with the good, the bad and the oh-so-ugly. You gotta roll with the punches. Unfortunately. I loved this. Not sorry about it. It’s not the type of book that comes to mind when we think of the Booker. And unfortunately its placement on the longlist is going to have it eyed with a much harsher lens. But I’ll go out and be its cheerleader. It’s a deceptively simple story told wonderfully, and with lots of care. There were a few moments that were really quite wondrously beautiful (a pyjama pants pocket comes to mind). I adore. https://www.instagram.com/p/CSpUD5GLr...

A story in a triangle cornered by puzzling mystery, compelling drama blended with a helping of melodrama, and prize winning Canadian literary fiction! Solace is a typical northern Ontario town. Home base to millions of mosquitoes in countless lakes; a year comprised of two seasons – winter and July; surrounded by marsh, swamp, rivers, and boreal forest with only one road in and one road out – the opposite sides of the same road that eventually wends its way south to Toronto; fun evenings out and dating restricted to watching the hockey games at the local rink, shopping at the Hudson’s Bay Store or asking the waitress at the local café for the daily special with a plate of pie à la mode to close out the evening festivities! A reader’s natural inclination might be to yawn and wonder what possible stories might be told about such a dreary location. But Mary Lawson has prepared a novel that weaves and braids three first person narratives into perspectives that overlap each other in real time and unfold into an absolutely brilliant, breathtaking, heartwarming and heartbreaking, humorous, evocative and thoroughly compelling tale of down home Canadian drama that never drifts away from credible realism for even an instant. The first narrator is Clara, the youngest daughter in a family and the younger sibling of a missing rebellious teen. The second is a recently divorced man and the new owner of a house gifted to him by a woman who knew and loved him when he was a child. That woman, Elizabeth, is the third narrator, telling her story and her memories of a thirty year old crime from her death bed in a hospital where she knows she will succumb to terminal heart disease much sooner than later. Covering themes of love, death, chronic infertility, child abduction, teen rebellion and runaways, grief, and remorse, A TOWN CALLED SOLACE was a pleasure to read and is easy to recommend as a 5-star winner and one of my favourites of the year. Paul Weiss

5 stars (for the third time in a row!). I adored this book. It was charming and moving and heartfelt. I now understand why my beloved friend Samantha recommended it to me. Small town feel, with richly developed characters who discover themselves as they go. Three narrators, each at a different stage and life place, who are intricately and unusually connected. And a cat. My favorite character, although I loved them all, was a real side piece, minor character, but it happened to be Sargeant Karl Barnes. I just loved him, and I could see him in mind and through my heart. He came to life for me, as did all the other characters. Each of them swept in and stayed there, much like a cat will curl up and form a relationship with you, even if its momentary and you just kind of half imagined it. I loved the small town feel, and how people in the book were each finding their way to various kinds of healing. Every character in one way or another. And that ending? The one in the last pages that you are desperately longing for? Well it was just perfect.

Mary Lawson might as well have titled her new book A PLACE called solace because in these challenging times, her story transports the reader to a more redemptive place. That isn’t to say that the book is a sunny read. Set in remote Northern Ontario in 1972, it is narrated by three characters. Seven-year-old Clara is alienated and mourning her missing teenage sister and finds solace in caring for the cat of her elderly neighbor who is in the hospital. That neighbor, Mrs. Orchard, harbors a secret from her past and is trying to make late-life amends. The third person, Liam, is emotionally stunted for reasons he doesn’t quite understand, and is inexplicably given the house by Mrs. Orchard. Slowly but surely, the reader comes to understand what bonds these three disparate characters together as integrated layers of grief, regrets and flashes of understanding pull them forward. At one point, Liam questions, “How do you know another person’s mind? How do you know your own?” Although no person gets full clarity on those questions, the characters get a little closer to the answers. Interestingly, Anne Tyler blurbs the cover, writing, “I’ve been trying to tell everybody I know about Mary Lawson. Each of her novels is just a marvel.” I definitely see commonalities between the two writers: the ability to dive deep into the psyche of imperfect people, preserving their respect and dignity while getting readers to nod self-knowingly in acknowledgement of their foibles. While A Town Called Solace doesn’t have the all-encompassing sense of place of my favorite Mary Lawson novel, Crow’s Lake, it is still a rewarding read that offers up people I truly cared about. 4.5 stars.

In brief - Powerful understated story with very good characters - thoroughly enjoyed it. 4.5/5 In full I found this started well in small town Canada 1972. Clara is at home looking out of the window waiting for her sister Rose to come back. A stranger arrives at the next door house where Clara has been feeding the cat while the neighbour was in hospital. Nothing dramatic but nicely set up and it got my interest. In fact this really is a story that focusses on just three main characters. Clara who feeds the neighbour's cat, waits for her sister's return and puzzles over the newcomer. Liam who is the newcomer - why is he here. Elizabeth the cat owner from next door. What are the links between these three and who else do they have in their lives? The story reveals the past and tells of the present quite steadily. Long kept secrets emerge too. There are truths, lies and loves in this moving and powerful story about families and lives. I found each of the main characters interesting and convincing in their own way. I sometimes get some way through a book and wonder "who is this person?" - that never happened in this book. While you could argue that with only 3 characters that is not surprising that would not be fair to the rest of the cast here. There are the people in the town, those who are in the past and those that we never really meet but who are part of this story. Even Moses - just the cat - has his part to play and is well written. Almost all of them have stayed with me and - like the town, Solace - are quite clear in my mind. The more I read of this the easier I found it to keep reading rather than to put it down. Does anything much happen during the course of this story? Well I guess you need to define "much" and in some senses things do happen and secrets are revealed. This story is emotional sometimes and warm with humanity and humour at others. At times this is a "gentle" book but equally the truth can be hard to bear. What I did find it was enormously satisfying and it has a beauty in the story telling. Before I even finished it I had bought an earlier book of Mary Lawson's and I certainly want to read more by this author. I think this is one of those stories that will stay with me for quite some time. Note - I received an advance digital copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for a fair review

A Town Called Solace is a wonderful examination into relationships and the fallout from complications. It's about connections between unlikely souls, triggered by events that affect others not immediately involved. I loved how Lawson took her time in spooling out information, kept me guessing in many cases until just the right moment. It's not as sophisticated as its counterparts on the Booker longlist or those that made the final six, but it's a lovely read and worth attention.

I came across this author by chance having seen another of her books reviewed and after a period of not reading, her novel(s) sounded like something I'd quite enjoy as a way back in to reading. There were comparisons made to Anne Tyler, of whom I've read a couple of novels. What I wasn't expecting was to see this novel then long listed for the Booker Prize a short while after I requested it. Doubly intrigued, as this is the only book on that list I have, I began to read. I loved it. Not only was it the good choice I had expected for my own personal reasons, it exceeded my expectations in so many ways. The title is both intriguing and promising and the cover, the way it zooms in on the house in a way that shows little else around it, is such an apt metaphor for the three lives it focuses on, those three windows into their worlds, and the three time sequences it immerses in to portray them. A character driven mystery that explores boundaries and trust, the characters and their voices are superbly portrayed, they are like closeups, snapshots of little action, complex inner worlds, all of whom have been tilted in some way and are in the process of finding their upright, their wings even. I came to think of these three characters, Mrs Orchard (Elisabeth), the grown up child and previous neighbour of Mrs Orchard, now adult Liam, and 8 year old current neighbour of Mrs Orchard (Clara) as depicting narratives of past, present and future. When the story begins we meet Clara standing at the window of her house, watching obsessively, waiting for her sister Rose (16) who has run away from home. She is waiting for any sign of her return and is disturbed to see a strange man carrying boxes into Mrs Orchards home next door. Rose having gone missing is the central drama, but each of the three characters have a different inner quest that this drama brings to light for them. More than disturbed, Clara is anxious because she has the keys to the house to enable her to feed the cat Moses while Mrs Orchard is in hospital. Through Clara's perspective we observe how confusing childhood can be when adults put so much effort into lying and withholding truth from them. In reality, they are extra sensitive to everything outside of and beyond words, cues that enable them to feel truths, therefore making them mistrust adults, whose words deny their truth. Clara doesn't know this yet, but Liam remembers what it was like to be that child; he is the one adult who doesn't lie to her. But in order to gain her trust, he will be required to step outside his own comfort zone and finds himself getting involved in a community and the lives of people he had no intention of knowing. He had planned to stay 2 weeks and leave. In an entertaining subplot to his story, his effort to fix a leaking pipe under a sink miraculously leads to him to become the builder's labourer, in on of those familiar scenarios of "well in order to fix that, first we're going to have to fix the roof and unfortunately..." Liam's narrative happens ahead of Mrs Orchard's and Clara's narrative occurs ahead of Liam's. It is so subtle and yet so clever as it creates a kind of mystery within the individual story of each character. So we sometimes read of the same event later from a different perspective. Elisabeth is in hospital (in the past because in the present we know she has already passed away) and her narrative uses the second person (You) as she is speaking to her dead husband (of many years now), who is very present for her, a sign to the reader of how close to her own passing is likely to be. As she speaks to her husband, she is recalling a period many years ago when the boy Liam lived next door with his family. Little clues drop indicating that something happened, something only Elisabeth now remembers. The writing is superb and atmospheric, the structure is sophisticated and yet flows with ease you could read this and be completely unaware of it. The individual voices of the characters are pitch perfect and atmosphere created, remarkable. The drama is understated yet palpable and the mundane slowly gets filled with intrigue and curiosity was the layers are revealed. And it made me laugh out loud - often, little surprises and a fabulous last laugh for the closing scene. I don't know if this will make the shortlist but I totally understand why it has been nominated. I'm excited to read more of her work, because this was brilliant.

A story of life and living. This is a quiet book of quiet people. Mary Lawson's book cover is beautiful, so lovely as is the story. I read and liked very much her other two books, "Crow Lake," and "The Other Side of the Bridge," so when I read about this book I ordered it. The book is set in a very small town in far north Ontario, as are her other two books. The story is told by three protagonists, seven year old, but going on eight, Clara, Elizabeth Orchard, an elderly lady, Clara's friend, and Liam Kane, a stranger to the small town. Clara's older sister, Rose, has run away. She is sixteen, a young person, tired of this small, out of the way town. A young person who wants more out of life, some fun. Clara and her parents are worried sick. Clara is trying to figure out life, her parents won't tell her the truth of what is happening, what it is all about. She is so young, they are trying to spare her. Clara is a conscientious, serious child. She is taking care of Moses, Mrs Orchard's cat. She loves Moses and Rose. Where could Rose be? Clara stands at her window, looking, watching. Possibly Rose might walk by, send a message. But no. Nothing. She must see Moses is fed and entertained. When she is not taking care of Moses, she stands looking out her window, hates to leave her watch. She must go to school, the teacher is nice, never questions her. The little girls gossip and comment. Clara stays inside during recess and lunch. She is in so much pain. When will Mrs Orchard com home from the hospital? She has been gone too long. A strange man moves boxes into her home. Clara doesn't like what she is seeing. Mrs Orchard won't like it. he boxes up her things. Mrs Orchard likes her possessions. Moses doesn't like strangers. What can be happening? This man is so rude, pushy, trying to take over Mrs Orchard's home. Mrs Orchard is in the hospital surrounded by other sick folks. She has moved into her deceased sister's home in this tiny town from southern Ontario. A childless widow, she has had several miscarriages. She always wanted to be a mom. Liam Kane has inherited Mrs Orchard's house and possessions. Elizabeth Orchard has known Liam when he was between three and four. He is in his mid thirties now. She loved him, Liam barely remembers her. He came to Solace, plans to sell the house and return to Toronto. he is divorced, aliented from his family, alone in the world. He has never been a people person, is tired of his job as an accountant. He allows Clara to feed and play with Moses, but wants her to leave as soon as he comes home. He likes to be alone. He wanders around town, he has never been in such a small town, feels lost. He is so used to large cities. This is a story of loneliness, sadness, of being alone in the world, of longings that can't be described. This is such beautiful writing. I am glad I read the book.

There’s something about a Mary Lawson book that gets into my veins. The life she breathes into her characters - so fragile yet so strong - stays with me long after I’ve finished reading. In her latest book, we are taken to a town called Solace. There, we meet a variety of characters like Clara, a seven year old girl whose teenage sister recently ran away and is taking care of Moses the cat whose elderly owner, Mrs. Orchard, is in hospital. Liam a 35 year old man going through a divorce and who has just inherited Mrs. Orchard’s house. And Mrs. Orchard, while on her death bed, reminiscing about her life with her long ago deceased husband Charles and her time with Liam when he was a young boy. The three perspectives come together to create a story of pain, love, loss and hope. The writing was beautiful. It captured the essence of each character and overflowed with emotion. I cried several times. Like many of Lawson’s books, the relationships are what makes this particular story captivating and heartbreaking.

This was my first book by Mary Lawson and definitely won't be my last. Will need to get my hands on her backlist. A Town Called Solace was really beautiful. I adored the three main characters in this book. All at very different stages of their lives, all connected. The storyline is an interesting one and the author did such a great job of voicing each of these realistic character. The title couldn't be more perfect for this book. Another great Sweetreads Box pick!

I wrote a long review, but the app crashed before I finished … so I will take that as a sign I was being too wordy and keep it short this time. Beautiful characters written in gorgeous prose. This is not a fast or loud story; it has real depth, full of hope, showcasing genuine kindness and heart as well as the realistic consequences after unfortunate choices are made. Just loved it!

Superb book by one of my favourite writers. Mary Lawson is an amazing Canadian writer and catches the small town vibe brilliantly. Her Crow Lake series was so engrossing and made want more of this woman's writing. This long awaited fourth novel from Lawson earns every star.

I’ve no idea why it took me so long to read The Land in Winter and I’m so glad I finally have..simply superb. Andrew Miller has always been an excellent writer : Pure, Oxygen and Ingenious Pain spring to mind. No spoilers or too many plot details - this is the story of two couples living in the West Country - all have secrets, family pasts and unfulfilled desires. Set in the Winter of 1962 and 1963 when much of the UK was snowbound for two months, the lives of all implode as frustrations and the impact of the climate conspire to bring change. The prose is beautiful - each character is richly constructed and it is this that makes the story so powerful. Having parents and grandparents who lived through this time, I could relate to the period of ice, blizzards and snow and the social impacts. This is as much a brilliantly constructed story as it is a snapshot of social history. In comparison to Flesh that won the Booker Prize, this is a book that made the final short list and will be a classic for years ahead. Highly recommended - a superb read that hooked me

4.5 stars // The lives of two married couples in the early 60s under the backdrop of the winter cold (that last part could be a refresher considering we’re currently going through an unbearably heatwave summer —I love summer but this is crazy) This novel is the slowest of slow burns (not an exaggeration). Unhurried domestic minutiae that builds and builds until it busts at the seams, emitting a fiery release. You can sense that it’s going to end tragically. Very character-driven: two neighboring married couples where both wives are pregnant. Both women early become friends despite their social and class differences. All of these principal characters are looking for something more. Bill is a good man struggling to create a grander future for his family. Rita is in a fragile state due to her newfound isolation. Eric is a self-serving weasel, who tends to take his blessings for granted. Irene is in a passionless marriage and asking herself some existential questions. THE LAND IN WINTER is an extremely well-written domestic drama. But what gives it the edge is atmosphere. You can feel the frost, the mental suffocation, the lingering loneliness. Some readers won’t gel with this novel because nothing happens (except for maybe the last section), but if you’re into well-rounded prickly characters who earn your empathy, this one should be the right fit.

Two couples who live close to each other - Eric and Irene, Bill and Rita - are the main protagonists of this novel, set during one of the coldest winters in UK history. The story follows their lives as Rita and Irene navigate their early months of pregnancy. Not a huge amount happens during the novel but when the writing is excellent it barely seems important. Andrew Miller has written a beautifully evocative novel which is people with interesting and diverse characters. He has also managed, in Eric, to produce one of the most repulsive characters I've come across in a while. The weather plays a central part in the novel, leaving the village inhabitants stranded and often in danger. All the main characters have interesting back stories and I fell in love with Rita and Bill. I felt sorry for Irene and I yelled a lot at Eric, an egotistical, narcissistic snob of a man who really got up my nose. Brilliant writing. The Land in Winter would (so far) be my choice for the Booker Prize in 2025 but my choice is never the same as the judges. I was lucky enough to receive an advance review copy of both the text and audiobook. I alternated between the two but the audiobook was my favourite narrated, as it was, by the author. Andrew Miller has a great voice for narration - even and clear, no doing "voices" and no melodrama despite there being some extremely moving scenes. An excellent novel. Highly recommended. Thankyou to Netgalley, Europa Editions and Dreamscape Media for the audio and ebook advance review copies. Most appreciated.

4.5 stars I finished this brilliant book a few days ago but have been letting it percolate and settle some in my mind before trying to set down a few thoughts. It’s set in the West Country of England over a few months, taking in the shocking period of massive snowfalls and unrelenting freezing temperatures of late 1962 and the first months of 1963 that kept everything almost in suspended animation, with people barely able to get around and challenged to feed themselves and keep warm. Author Miller has many gifts, and here he demonstrates his talent both for description of the landscape and the animal life of the farmyard, and profoundly insightful depiction of character, almost a jeweller’s loupe perspective. There are four main characters, two mismatched married couples who live near to each other, a walk across a field apart. Eric is the local doctor from a working-class background, married to Irene, from the upper-middle-class. In the rundown, chilly farmhouse across the way are Bill, struggling to make a living from a small dairy farm, but with no idea of what he’s doing the place is going under (buying the farm was an idealistic venture, a way to distance himself from his Hungarian immigrant father, a slum landlord), and his wife, Rita, a pretty, vivacious girl with a dodgy background as a club dancer that Bill would prefer not to know about. Both women are pregnant and, unlikely as a friendship between them is, bond over their pregnancies. The opening chapter establishes the tone and adumbrates the uneasiness and uncertainty of coming events when a young man in the nearby asylum commits suicide. Eric’s patient, he overdosed on the sleeping pills Eric prescribed. A pretty ominous opening. The chapters following are all interior perspectives from one of the four characters. They are all clearly wondering about what they’re doing, why life has brought them to where they are, questioning their choices and very uncertain about what the future holds. The men don’t seem to much like their work, and the women are isolated and constrained by the “housewife” role imposed on them by the times. (And speaking of the times, I have to say there was a shocking amount of drinking and smoking going on by pregnant women.) The end of the Second World War is only 15 years in the past, and though the four main characters were too young to be participants, there are secondary characters who were greatly affected. (The senior doctor who works with Eric is a Holocaust survivor and spends the party that ends part 1 standing by himself and briefly trying to converse with farmer Bill, whose Jewish father has trained him to completely divorce himself from his family history and who subsequently is quite uncomprehending when the doctor says a few words in what I assume is Hebrew or Yiddish.) It all comes to a desolate, distressing ending. As one critic aptly observes, the novel explores “the difficulty of loving in an unlovely world.”

4.5/5 Andrew Miller’s work here is so satisfying and impressive. I was completely absorbed in this narrative, immersed in the atmospheric, emotional world of his characters and the historical setting he conjures with such beauty and confidence. I could feel the cold, somber sobriety of winter as I read, and it felt strange not to have a mug of something warm in hand each time I returned to the story. What really stood out to me was the quality of the writing. Miller pays attention to the smallest details: the crackle of a fire, the scratch of a pen, even the sound of silence in a room. Every description felt exact, chosen with care and a precise visual and aural acuity. He leans often on metaphor, and they always felt surprising, yet perfectly spot-on. I found myself smiling a lot while reading. The characters are all searching, sometimes desperately, for a sense of purpose, and more often than not, they fall short. But that’s life, and I loved how the narrative, whether dealing with major events or minor ones, stayed grounded in a recognizable sort of everydayness. I felt I could know these people. Miller finds profound moments in the mundane corners of his characters’ lives, whose outward simplicity belies a deep inner complexity. The imagery of doors and gates recurs throughout the novel, tying into one of its central ideas of life as a series of thresholds—some opening, others closing—and the uncertainty of knowing which is which, or realizing too late. The characters are restless, always searching for horizons they may never reach. But that searching is exactly what makes them feel so real. They are just people trying, failing, sometimes succeeding, but always wanting more. I loved it, and I can’t wait to read more of Andrew Miller’s work.

22nd book read in 2026 This novel was shortlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize. Andrew Miller has a long list of novels, none of which I have read but many of which have won prizes. Oh dear, another author I must add to my burgeoning reading lists. Two couples in 1962 live across a field from each other in the deep English countryside, though none of them started life as country people. The wives are both newly pregnant, the marriages are strained. In December, the worst blizzard ever descends on the country and both marriages are threatened with dissolution. The story ebbs and flows. Sometimes not much happens but by the end so much has happened in just a month’s time that the reader’s head is spinning. The themes are loneliness, infidelity, family strife and pure female grit. Nobody gets exactly what they want, and the ending is literally out of this world. The writing is exquisite.

I found this book to be wonderful on many levels. Miller has incredible command of his whole enterprise: the language, the characters, the atmosphere, all of it. Those who need an exciting plotline, are probably going to be disappointed, but the characters were so well done and the writing so beautifully engaging while not being excessive at all, I was enchanted. This book ended up being my second favorite on the Booker Prize longlist (I have now finished 12/13). The ending was a bit heartbreaking, but consistent with the bleak wintery atmosphere. Definitely looking forward to trying more from this author.

A slow burn that eventually had me gripped like the ice storm it describes. 4 flawed characters stumble through the snow of their lives in a melancholy winter in rural England. Beautifully written and paced, with a brooding sense of oppression in everyday life. Well worth a read.

The world, the fog-world in its brittle glass sheath of now, was aching for an arrival. from The Land in Winter by Andrew Miller 1962. Rural England during a snowstorm. Two couples, both women pregnant. Both marriages tenuous. Bill turned from an easy life in the family business to try his hand at farming. It is a hard life, one his wife Rita is not accustomed to. She hears voices, takes drugs now banned or dangerous. Sometimes her impetuous side reemerges. Eric is a doctor at an asylum where his wife’s father resides. Irene is lonely, depressed by the world and her husband’s inattention. Irene and Rita bond over being pregnant, because they live near to each other, because they are new to this community and life. The men both make decisions that bring crisis into their lives while nature bombards the land with a thick snow, isolating the women even more, Irene without heat, Rita driven to leave only to encounter her own crisis. Behind the couple’s stories is the war, the memories of killing and suffering affirming humanity’s “addiction to violence.” Workers with “Goring’s telephone number” on their forearm, a wall a painted sign for White Defence League. “So much dying and nobody really knowing what it was for,” Rita thinks. Rita and Eric have so much unhappiness, such longings and loneliness. Their marriage a chasm to be endured. Bill strives and suffers for it, Irene left alone in a cold house, To be held. Wasn’t that what anybody wanted? To be held, if only for a night? from The Land in Winter by Andrew Miller An emotional, deep exploration of marriage and love with well drawn conflicted characters. Thanks to the publisher for a free book through NetGalley.

This is a book resists summary, not because nothing happens, but because what happens feels quiet and internal. If asked what happens, I would struggle to find the right words. Two couples—four people—laid bare across the pages, set against a cold, dry, storm-battered winter in the early 1960s. The plot turns not on dramatic incident but on small shifts in power, silence, and perception. Marriages are tested through boredom, frustration, and unspoken resentment; alliances subtly form and fracture. As the winter tightens its grip, each character is gradually revealed, though never fully explained. When I turned the final page, I had to pause and consider why these people acted as they did, why they behaved the way they did. Their choices often feel opaque, and yet disturbingly plausible, grounded in fear, pride, insecurities, and the desire for control or escape. The ambiguity surrounding certain actions feels intentional, suggesting how limited our understanding of others and ourselves can be, even in moments of supposed closeness. The book is cold in both atmosphere and moral temperature, and deceptively devastating in its effects. It is a beautiful book, though if you asked me to explain exactly why, I would still come up short for words. It was like a word in a new language naming a mood she could not have experienced without the word, without learning it.

2025 Booker Prize Longlist 7/13 This is my favourite of the Longlist so far. It is so quiet, but it's so firmly rooted in place and time (the blizzard that crippled the West counties in 1962) that it completely subsumed me for several days. This was a few years before I was born, but it was the time that my parents were going about their newly wed business of setting up a home and shoring up their ambitions for their future life. Everything about this book transported me back to that world, to the brave new modernity that was emerging from the stultification of the post war years, where evidence of Victoriana was still all around. I particularly love all the descriptions of the minutiae of everyday life, all those rituals and routines that we have all but forgotten. The bigger themes of marriage, social upward mobility, gender roles, class distinctions, country v city, isolation of rural villages are thwarted and highlighted when the blizzard hampers everyone's movements, rather like the effects that isolating had during the Covid pandemic. Meticulously researched, unusual but quietly powerful, this novel is 99% vibe.

I found this a riveting read, although I didn't want it to end where it did. I wanted everything to be neatly resolved, but life isn't really like that.

I try to read at least one novel from the Booker Prize shortlist every year. Sometimes, the book I’ve selected - as happened last year - defeats me (I selected another) but it’s rare. I’m here to tell you that The Land in Winter deserves its place on the list. I’ve no doubt however that there will be readers who disagree. I love novels set in cold places - perhaps because living in tropical Australia, experiencing true winter is something that seldom happens to me. I also love novels told from various points of view and TLIW excels at this - there are four and my favourite is Bill. It is beautifully written, as you would expect, and rich with atmosphere. And there are places where I had to stop to reread a sentence. “He was slightly surprised to find he was still wearing his coat. There are times when your body just follows you around, like a dog or a younger brother.” It also helped that I’ve been to Bristol and although I was there recently as opposed to when TLIW is set (1962) I felt that I recognised some of the landscape. Having found Andrew Miller I am looking forward to reading more of his work.

A quadruple character study of four fascinating members of rural 60’s England. A well to do doctor and his wife are contrasted with a less secure farmer and his bride. Personalities are incredibly distinct and laser-sharp in delivery. One character loves sci-fi and hears voices; another is having an affair and two are pregnant. You’d likely not guess the author's gender with such authentic delivery of dialogue and the incredible realism of our four protagonists. The story blossoms before ferocious snow hits. Each character reacts differently during dramatic weather and the world built in opening chapters grows hopeful for some and shatters for others. This is magnificent stuff, as lyrical of prose as any contemporary story and from elation to agony, it will trigger a spectrum of emotions for readers. Well deserved to make the 2025 Booker Short List and highly recommended to fans of literary fiction....or even to those that usually aren’t tempted, but want to try an easy to read story constructed with convincing emotional range. Thanks to Netgalley and Europa Editions for a review copy. The Land in Winter was previously published in UK but will be available to U.S. readers on November 11, 2025.

My admiration for Andrew Miller grows with each book I read. The Land in Winter is the sort of book you can’t bear to be parted from until you’ve finished it. Set in Somerset in the notoriously bad winter of 1962-63, the story follows two families who, for various reasons, don’t quite fit in the environment in which they find themselves. There’s the local GP, Eric Parry and his wife Irene, and struggling small farmer Bill and his wife Rita. All have secrets and previous lives entirely separate from the isolated village in which they now live. Over 370 pages, Andrew Miller explores the complicated ties that bind them and the unspoken thoughts that come between them. Against the backdrop of a frozen landscape that has made the ordinary things of everyday life a struggle and which has loosened the familial and social cement of the community the two couples at the heart of the story find their lives turned upside down.

Kitamura won’t let me go; the absence that her characters carry around are loaded with substance. AUDITION, like all her novels, asks the reader to accept the unraveling mystery at the narrative sweet spot--where it splits into two opposing circumstances that would be factually impossible, except this is fiction. And it is a device that works, it worked for me. On the other hand, don’t grab too tightly—handle with care, don’t try to control the narrative, just let it be, accede to the inherent contradictions, and don’t expect a bow to tie this up with, it’s not a fairytale. I was a stage actor for a time in Austin (nothing big, nothing fancy)—so I do understand the unnamed female protagonist’s ongoing and new conundrums when attempting to flesh out her character. Even though she’s unreliable, she does have true feelings. She’s a stage and film actor, currently in a play. There’s a specific threshold or liminal place in the script, where she tells us that she is compelled to show the audience a major epiphany or transformational turn her character has reached. It may be the most important moment of the play for the actress’s part, at least thus far. The reader doesn’t know the play or the significant juncture, yet Kitamura keeps us fastened and tightly wound around it, as if we knew every line. Kitamura, subtly dazzling and lucent, does that so fluidly. I said fluidly, not to be confused with fluently. I mean, there are time jumps, some that are almost spastic--- they move with a sharp jiggle. Just go with it. I interpret it as someone whose work life merges with personal life on occasion. Which is the true version and which is the alternate? I think it could be the million-dollar question for a plot-driven story. But this author leans more on theme and character, and playing with two different realities gives us the character and the actor. No wonder she is unnamed! Language is Katie Kitamura’s magic wand. She knows how to lead or follow with it. Wherever a word or space puts or relieves pressure, she is sure to act. I never even mentioned the actor’s husband, Tomas (a writer) and the other male protagonist, Xavier, but there’s not much I want to say—readers will discover how her play plays into her personal life, and how her personal life plays into the play. Just note that you will either be distracted or driven by the narrator’s two lives. Maybe both. Sentence by sentence, I was mesmerized. Kitamura’s novels are electrically charged with questions about identity. Here—is our character a wife-mother-actor? A wife-actor? In the twenty-first century, literary novels often ask the reader to examine a person’s identity, and how it is relevant to the story. Identity in AUDITION is the recurrent question with a circumspect answer. The author is restrained in her text, her prose spare but exacting. However, certain questions must be answered in the abstract. “…I thought that it was true that a performance existed in the space between the work and the audience, that it existed, and was made, in that space of interpretation.” Another stunner from Kitamura. Thank you dearly to Riverhead and NetGalley for sending me a copy for review.

A haze of impending danger hovers in the air during the opening scene of “ Audition.” “ It seemed an unlikely choice, this large establishment in the financial district, so that I stood outside and checked the address, the name of the restaurant, I wondered if I had made a mistake. But then I saw him through the window, seated at a table at the back of the dining room.I stared through the layers of glass and reflection, the frame of my own face. Something uncoiled in my stomach, slow and languorous, and I decided it would be better if I left now and did not go in to him.” The unnamed narrator is unequivocal in articulating her dread and anxiety as she approaches this meeting.She is meeting Xavier. She is a well known actress.He is a young graduate student who suspects a biological connection to the narrator. As the narrator stands outside the restaurant, peering through the window sight unseen, she is deciding what type of role or face she might present to the young student. This scene is a signature Kitamura moment.Performance and playacting to fulfill a role are recurring themes in Kitamura’s novels. Casting an actor as narrator and protagonist immediately draws attention to the role of presentation and deceit in public and private lives. The author cleverly designs a novel in two parts, mirroring the structure of a two act play, depicting struggles with performance and personal misgivings. Everyone in the novel is playing a part, creating scenes of unraveling mystery that cast doubt about what motives and actions are real and which are performative masks.Kitamura’s prose is spare, piercing and exploratory.It delivers thoughts in sentences that sometimes run on while abruptly veering in different directions and time frames. The result is an aura of psychological uncertainty and tension as relations between the narrator, her husband Tomas and Xavier morph in mood and roles throughout. There is a startling shift of circumstance in the second act of the novel.Although the transition is abrupt, Kitamura’s thematic signposts tie the two sections together.At its core, the novel is an exploration of public performance and how it affects personal and intimate relationships. The face one presents to the world diverges from the inner self that each person harbors.Kitamura asks many questions about the gap between our inner selves and the roles we play for others. The author does not offer solutions. Instead, she leaves readers embroiled in the mysteries confronting our protagonists. Each reader might have a different solution.Many will be enriched for having engaged in the search.

Two scripts, one life. In "Audition", Katie Kitamura crafts a spare yet mesmerizing novel about performance - on stage, in love, and in life itself. The publisher's synopsis perfectly describes the book as "a mesmerizing Mobius strip of a novel that asks who we are to the people we love" - referring to a single, endless surface with no distinct inside or outside, challenging concepts of duality and boundaries. The story begins simply: an accomplished actress meets a younger man for lunch in a Manhattan restaurant. But nothing in Kitamura's world stays simple for long. Despite the book's short length, there are two dual realities in this novel - across two mirrored narrative strands, the book offers distinct versions of the same relationship, each refracting questions of identity, desire, and the fluid roles we inhabit. The unnamed narrator, a middle-aged actress in rehearsals for her next play, feels both exposed and elusive. True to her career, her life seems like a constant act, the lines between her stage performances and private self dissolving until we can no longer tell where one ends and the other begins. The novel blurs the line between her stage roles and the roles she plays in life, especially as a wife, mother, and self. It's not a Sliding Doors scenario so much as a meditation on possibility, perception, and the masks we wear even with those who think they know us best - on how two people could know each other in two different versions of reality. I listened to the audiobook, which was skillfully narrated by Traci Kato-Kiriyama. A short but taut, beautifully written exploration of art, intimacy, and the slippery nature of truth, "Audition" is less a novel you devour than one that stays with you, echoing long after the final curtain falls.

An accomplished actress meets with a young man, a theater worker and actor in his own right, in a Manhattan restaurant. There’s obviously something going on between them, even though she’s old enough to be his mother. The relationship is murky, and gets murkier when he gets a job at the off-Broadway production on which she’s featured. Her husband suspects things, and after a few days it’s hard to tell what she is to him and vice versa. Mother and son? Former lovers? Mentor and mentee? Kitamura has a dreamy, stream-of-consciousness style that takes concentration. I don’t normally go for it, but there’s something about her narrative that’s deep, intelligent, and honest. She writes this one in the first person, and the thought processes are direct and clear, very unlike other authors’ attempts. I felt the narrator’s confusion and anxiety and followed her strange trip through a bizarre situation. Perhaps it was the short length, the knowledge that I wouldn’t be stuck for hundreds of pages, that helped. But I really wanted to know what would happen. There’s a wild perspective shift, sorta, right in the middle. Agh! I can’t do spoilers but let me try to explain: something happens between the narrator, her husband, and Xavier (the young man) that forces us to question their relationship. I wonder if it was in her mind, if she’s just imagining it. Maybe it was a dream. Or maybe she’s engaging in some cognitive dissonance: going along with some behavior that doesn’t make sense, that might even be maladaptive, because her mind drifts that way. She wants this to happen, or at least doesn’t mind following a different path, so she acts it out. It was weird. I felt like I had to go back a few pages to understand what was happening. But I decided to go with it, and I’m glad I did. Maybe all the symbolism didn’t penetrate my thick skull, but it was thought-provoking and artful. Also, I loved the inside look into her craft as an actress. Speaking of art, I suggest you get ready for some artistic license. Not only for the wild narrative to which I refer above, but also for the looseness with grammar. That was true of Intimacies, and it’s true here. No quotation marks, and dialogue between characters shows up often within the same paragraph. Lots of run-on sentences, too. Again, I can’t explain it: as a captain of the Grammar Police, I find it hard not to shut off my spidey-sense. But it was beautifully written, smart, intricate, and sharp. One of the cleverest works of the year! Thanks to Riverhead Books and Goodreads for the advance giveaway copy, for which a review was requested. Audition will be published on April 8, 2025.

Ha! Ha! I’m acting!

Reviews by friends @bookwormbecks and @books_with_taylor had me eager to read Intimacies by Katie Kitamura. I added it to my #25ishin25 shelf and read it last month in a day or two. Intimacies is described as, “…a taut and electrifying story about a woman caught between many truths.” Taut perfectly describes the writing and electrifying accounts for the compelling pacing. Set in The Hague, which made for a fascinating backdrop, I was intrigued with every aspect of this story. When I sat down with Audition, I felt that same immediate pull. “One woman, the performance of a lifetime. Or two. A mesmerizing Mobius strip of a novel that asks who we are to the people we love.” The story starts out straight forward, or so you think, and then things shift. The main character is an actor who meets a man for lunch. They have a strong connection and even favor each other. Could he be her son? He thinks so. But that’s impossible. Or is it? The second half of the story switches to that alternative narrative. It’s about performance masks. And performance itself. Who knows us really? The roles we play within families. What’s real and true and what is created by these roles we slip into every day. I could keep going. If you read this one, DM me so we can chat. I absolutely loved this novel, and the way it made me think. Its openness and its brilliance. Katie Kitamura is cornering the market on the slim, razor-sharp novel. I can’t wait for more. I received a free copy of Audition from the publisher. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

I adored this novel. Katie Kitamura has tapped into a thrilling kind of ambiguity that is both the subject and the form of this novel. She cultivates a tense atmosphere through silences and elisions, and constant subtle shifts in her characters’ behavior and the textures of their environment. Focusing on the idea of performance as something inherent to how we interact with one another and inhabit our daily lives, the novel is narrated by an actress whose profession begins to bleed over into her real life. This establishes an incredible tension between her roles onstage and the increasingly blurred and precarious boundaries of her “roles” offstage. The language of performance forms the core grammar of the novel. From scene to scene, the characters’ identities feel provisional and contingent, and the structural choices embody the idea that life is built on “mutual constructions” and fragile performances sustained moment by moment. It’s a perfectly executed novel that finds Kitamura in stellar form, and, most impressively, lives up to its intellectual ambitions through its depth of insight, the precision of the writing, and its trust in the reader’s intelligence.

This book is 221 pages long, but 600 pages deep. Plot is background, story predominates. Inspired by a true history of events during the early 20th century, Harding’s narrative reimagines an island and its inhabitants off the coast of Maine, which the writer calls Apple Island (based on Malaga Island). As Harding reconceives it (a sort of factional vision based on the threadbare material that Harding possessed), Patience and Benjamin Honey arrived and settled there in the late 1700s. Benjamin was an enslaved runaway and Patience was a white Galwegian. They were poor and hungry, living on what the natural world has to offer, as well as mugwort tea, but over a hundred years later, Apple Island is inhabited by a diverse community, most who are Black or mixed race. The prevailing time period is 1912, the eve of destruction for all who live here. Esther Honey, the matriarch, is the great granddaughter of Benjamin and Patience, mother of Eha, grandmother to three. Her past trauma is a buttoned-up secret, only truly known by the one witness, Zachary Hand to God Proverbs, who mostly lives in a hollowed-out tree where he inscribes biblical scenes. He’s also an excellent carpenter and kind, gentle presence. The narrative describes the islanders’ day to day lives, although it opens with a hair-raising, bowel-splitting flood worthy of Noah’s. Harding adopts a playful style, whimsical wit, and moments of mystical wonder derived from the natural world. I often read the sentences out loud; the poetry and depth of prose has a teeming cadence that forces the reader to slow down, imbibe the language like notes in a piece of music—every word necessary, and uniquely lyrical. “As he lowered into sleep the salty pined breeze and cricket songs and schools of stars poured into and birled around his brains so the night became his mind and his mind the night and the mother owl watching over him swooped down from her tree and through his dreams.” Matthew Diamond, a missionary and retired schoolteacher from the mainland, teaches a range of subjects to the children on Apple Island. He possesses a physical revulsion to the Black adults, which he tries to hide. Matthew hates this about himself, but there he is, passively hurting those he promised to help. He escorts “scientists” who entwine their bigotry with what they mislabel the science of eugenics. These men bring their tools—calipers, metal rulers, measuring tape, and handle the islanders like some other species rather than human. The governor decides he needs to expel and segregate the community from the island for the “safety of health and humanity.” Matthew Diamond’s weak objections were overridden. Diamond attempts to paper over his racism with his savior plan. One of Esther’s grandchildren is fifteen-year-old Ethan, a gifted, budding artist. “How to get dawn, noon, and dusk all at once. How to get the heat. The forms and light and colors describe themselves to Ethan with perfect clarity and harmony, without explanation or reason, and he copies them down onto the canvas with the paints.” Matthew recognizes the boy’s unusual talent, and schemes to get him to the mainland to study with an old colleague before the big eviction. Ethan could “pass as white,” the missionary observes, and therefore would not be subject to prejudicial concerns. Mr. Diamond’s disgrace is his “incurable aversion to these people he truly believes he has been ordained to help.” The breezy, ruthless racism, the cruel conduct toward the islanders by depraved authorities is shocking and heartbreaking. However, Harding finesses his story with a singular flair, his language evoking a sweet, divine empathy and perhaps a bit of hope, the hope for us all to be a better version of ourselves, and to recognize the resilience of people who dwelled in the picture of their paradise, of Eden, until the worms and the snakes infiltrated Apple Island to cast them out. On the night before they send Ethan to the mainland, Matthew provided a sumptuous feast. “The islanders were so used to diets of wind and fog, to meals of slow-roasted sunshine and poached storm clouds, so used to devouring sautéed shadows and broiled echoes; they found themselves stupefied by such an abundance of food and drink. …And it seemed as if by sending him off to paint his beautiful pictures they all might…bankrupt poverty… as if they somehow might even starve hunger itself.” This is a novel to read again, and again and again. It’s a masterful portrait, like a painting in a gallery that you return to again and again, and get more and more of the picture each time you sit with it. Astonishing.

“I think eugenics was a perfect example of how every idiom and discipline of human thought is equally vulnerable to perversion and degradation, which is to say, utterly.” Paul Harding The author was inspired by the true story of Malaga Island, one of the first places to be integrated in the Northeast. This small island was settled in 1792 by a mixed race couple.Their descendants continued there until1912 when they were forced to evacuate, one family being committed to the Maine School for the Feeble Minded. Harding allows the reader to enter the minds and hearts of the inhabitants of the fictitious Apple Island. Make no mistake. Edens do not last and apples have a definite connection. As a professor of the Old Testament and also Shakespeare, there are many religious allegories and references. The arrival on the island of a well-meaning teacher brings the attention of the mainland authorities and the end of the life these islanders have known. In the name of science, the cruel pseudoscience of eugenics, the authorities harshly judge these simple folks, judge and find them lacking, not up to their standards, much like colonization has been doing for centuries. Intolerance has a long history. I loved this book, loved Apple Island, loved these simple, non-materialistic people. Their love of the island and each other, their sense of community and family were portrayed so beautifully. The descriptions of nature were so quintessential Maine. “As he lowered into sleep the salty pined breeze and cricket songs and schools of stars poured into and burled around his brain and his mind the night and the mother owl watching over him swooped from her tree and through his dreams.” Harding’s exquisite writing is for those who love lyrical prose. In few pages, the landscape and the islanders came to life. Unfortunately, the bigotry and hypocrisy of the time did also.

Some of the most wrenching novels are based on fact, and so it is here: this novel is inspired by the forced resettlement of a mixed-race population of a small island community in Maine at the start of the 20th century. Teeming with biblical undertones, such as the story of Noah and the Ark, This Other Eden gives credence to the self-destructive and sinful state of the world that demands intervention. For craven eugenicists – such as (Leonard Darwin, who is the only child of Charles Darwin who had no interest in science – and greedy politicians and developers, Apple Island is a cauldron of sin. The island consists of those considered perverse: incestuous siblings and their mentally impaired children, a righteous Civil War veteran named Zachary Hand to God Proverbs who lives in a hollowed tree, the formerly enslaved Benjamin Honey and his Irish-born wife with their children of various hues of skin colors, and so on. Of course, things are bound to head south when a well-meaning Christian schoolteacher-turned-missionary decides to better the lot of the island’s children – particularly if that missionary holds a visceral repulsion to Blacks. As the island comes to the attention of the politicians, the missionary determines to “rescue” Ethan – a green-eyed boy who can pass as white – and foster his art talents in Massachusetts. The others are headed for institutions so that the island can be developed as a vacation destination. The Other Eden echoes themes and events that humanity has grappled with to this day. Must those who are different and misunderstood be considered as “less than” and be deprived of dignity and community? Will intolerance always reign? Gracefully written in magisterial and poetic language, Apple Island itself becomes a fully developed character. Despite its slimness (a bit over 200 pages), the book demands concentration and focus but the rewards are abundant. Thank you to Book Browse and W.W. Norton & Company for enabling me to be an early reader in exchange for an honest review. 4.5 stars.

Terrible how terribly good intentions turn out almost every time. from This Other Eden by Paul Harding “Malaga Island was home to a mixed-race fishing community from the mid-1800s to 1912, when the state of Maine evicted 47 residents from their homes and exhumed and relocated their buried dead. Eight islanders were committed to the Maine School for the Feeble-Minded.” from Maine Coast Heritage Trust, quoted in This Other Eden The novel opens with the riveting story of a terrible storm washing over a small island off the coast of Maine, with a family clinging to the branches of a large tree and watching houses and people caught in the angry waters in the flood below. The Eden that Benjamin Honey had built was destroyed in 1815. His wife Esther tells the tale to her grandchildren, the history of their Ark island. The Honey family had lived there for six generations, since an African ex-slave Civil War veteran and his Irish wife settled there. Their neighbors included the Larks with their colorless children, and the McDermott sisters who took in three orphaned Native American children, and the spinster Annie Parker, and Civil War veteran Zachary Hand who preferred his hollow tree to his cabin. The mixed races of the families had produced individuals of every type, the pale and the dark, green eyes and red hair, straight hair and tightly curled. It’s a harsh life but they have survived. Theirs is a tolerant society where brother and sister raise their children, and a man can don his mother’s dress to keep house while his wife cuts her hair and goes fishing on the ocean. The state sent a pastor to open a school. The community is Christian, the Bible and Shakespeare among the few, tattered books in the community. The teacher discovered a girl who is a mathematical prodigy, a boy who masters Latin, and another who is a gifted, untrained artist. The Eugenics movement was at its height. The islanders were disturbing. They were measured and assessed, labeled and judged to be degenerate by the “plain white” of the mainland. The mixing of races, the intermixing of blood, could not produce anything but imbeciles, morons, and degenerates. The entire population of Apple Island was relocated, many to institutions. The early book takes us into these people’s lives and personalities. Yes, there are relationships that we may judge to be perverse. There are people whose sanity we may doubt. A girl who only eats wild things she finds, starfish and snakes. One woman was abused by her father, and intended to murder the resultant child. She was prevented, and her child and his children became the center of her old age. Zachary Hand carves images in his hollow tree where he finds peace. But we have sympathy for these people. They are removed from the world and a society that could not have accepted them, eking out a subsistence life, doing the best they could with what they had. The teacher determines to ‘save’ one child of the island, a fifteen-year-old boy with straight hair and and greenish eyes. He writes an acquaintance, hoping he would take the boy in until he could enter art school. It seemed a mercy to separate Ethan Honey from his family’s fate, to allow him access to white society. For all his good intentions, the teacher creates a series of disastrous events. Years in the future, historians will explore the buried history of the deserted island, and write about the paintings and drawings of the mysterious Ethan Honey. Beautifully written, with stunning descriptive passages and a mounting urgency, this is a novel of history and a vision of what society could have become, a condemnation and a warning. I received a free galley from the publisher through NetGalley. My review is fair and unbiased.

This Other Eden casts a spell over the reader with its lush descriptions, melodic prose, the languorous unraveling of time. And yet a sense of dread etches down the spine like a thin needle, leaving blood to seep, unseen but keenly felt. The foreshadowing of history tells us the residents of Apple Island, the Eden of the novel's title, will become a footnote of this nation's shameful embrace of eugenics, and yet it's impossible to read without the hope that somehow a benevolent hand will intervene and these souls will not be cast out from their home. Apple Island, a tiny rock a stone's throw from the Maine's hard coastline, is based on Malaga Island, a settlement of the descendants of escaped and freed slaves, native Abenaki, and poor whites from the mainland who intermarried and created a fishing community that numbered less than 50 by 1912, when they were forced from their homes. Several of the residents were committed to a mental institution. It's a tragic history for a state that has long prided itself on its progressivism, including as a refuge from slavery. Paul Harding humanizes the names that history captured by fleshing out the small band of families who inhabit Apple Island, some descendants of its founder, Benjamin Honey, a former slave, and his Ireland-born wife, Patience. One of these ancestors, young Ethan Honey, a teen who can pass as white, is hurried off the island before the others are banished. Both his looks and his prodigious artistic talent become a means to save him from the fate his family and neighbors are subject to. Ethan's grandmother, Esther, is the story's anchor. Her sorrow and wisdom are grounded in a terrible secret she bears alone, tamed only by love for her son and grandchildren. It's heart is held by Zachary Hand To God Proverbs, a Civil War veteran who lives in a hollowed-out tree trunk. And in its strange blood are the husband-wife/brother-sister pairing of Theophilus and Candace Lark, whose four children suffer from a disease that makes them fatally sensitive to the sun, a pair of Irish sisters who foster three Penobscot orphans, and the Honey's ancestors. Their foil is Matthew Diamond, a white teacher who spends his summers providing a traditional education to the islanders, even though the very sight of Black people sickens him. It is he who eventually causes the state to intervene on Apple Island, destroying the lives of those he condescendingly feels are in need of saving. This Other Eden is a less a rendition of historical fact than a hymn, a lament, to what history wrought. There is a fable-like tone to Harding's prose, a sense that you are reading an allegory. It's hypnotic and intense, a fever dream that you wake from at the end, heartbroken to know it is real. Highly recommended.

*Shortlisted for Booker Prize 2023* So poetic and beautifully written, but also heartbreaking as it's based on the true story of Malaga island!

THE OTHER EDEN by Paul Harding 4.5/5 Harding won the Pulitzer in a shocker for his novel TINKERS. I was not the biggest fan of it but decided to give Harding another try with his new book. The novel takes place in the early years of the 20th century on Apple Island, a recluse community of former slaves and other outcasts, both Black and white, living harmoniously in interracial families, absent the ideas of racial hierarchy and prejudice that infected mainland America. When government officials learn of the community they seek to remove its inhabitants “for their own good”, motivated by eugenic ideas that dominated the times. Harding’s prose is lush and tender, he delves less into the bigger expressions of the themes of race, instead exploring the personal and intimate experiences of the island folk that the inevitable tragic and violent events will interrupt. A wonderful novel, will certainly be one of the better of the year. Thanks to @netgalley and RBMedia for the advanced audio copy.

stunning, deftly crafted, and mesmerizing by an affirming storyteller A searing tale of community, belonging, and eugenics inspired by the true story of Malaga Island, an isolated island off the coast of Maine that became one of the first racially integrated towns in the Northeast which is based on the true story. As the saying goes, "The only thing new history in the world is the history you don't know." Riveting, provocative and unforgettable. This was a 4.5 read for me.

A beautifully poetic novel inspired by surpassingly ugly real events. This is the story of a small, racially diverse community forging a hardscrabble life on Apple Island, a tiny island off the coast of Maine, who are forcibly evicted by authorities on the mainland, and is inspired by the true story of Malaga Island, whose inhabitants were forcibly removed in 1911. Ostensibly “for their own good,” islanders (in life and in this novel) are removed due to eugenics and the disgust inspired in many by the islanders’ disregard of race, with white, black and Penobscot intermarrying and having children. (Going forward, I will concern myself only with the fictional island of this novel.) Harding doesn’t sugarcoat; there is privation and disease, but there is happiness and the freedom and dignity of providing for themselves by living off the land and from the sea. This is a richly imagined community of specific individuals living in intimately drawn ways, in passage after passage of heartstoppingly beautiful prose. The people on the island have been living their lives unmolested since long before the Civil War, but the irascible elderly grandmother knows things are going to go wrong as soon as a well-intentioned white missionary establishes a school on the island. I was so struck by the insights of Danez Smith’s review in the New York Times that I hereby copy and paste a section of that review because it does far more justice to this remarkable book than I can: “Until their foreshadowed displacement, it seems the residents of Apple Island move about with little to no awareness of the racial politics of their day ... This novel could be more focused on the turbulence of their eugenics-fueled expulsion, but instead we’re offered moments of family, connection and resilience, which only make the instances of violence and extrication more unsettling and explosive. With the fall of this Eden looming in the wings of the novel, what a careful and caring choice to spend so much time in the grandeur of the lives of the banished ... Not without complication, not without terror, This Other Eden is ultimately a testament of love: love of kin, love of nature, love of art, love of self, love of home. Harding has written a novel out of poetry and sunlight, violent history and tender remembering. The humans he has created are, thankfully, not flattened into props and gimmicks, which sometimes happens when writers work across time and difference; instead they pulse with aliveness, dreamlike but tangible, so real it could make you weep.” Read it. It’s brief and exceedingly beautiful.

This is an absolutely brilliant story inspired by a real-life mixed-race island community off the coast of Maine, Malaga Island, from its settlement to its demise. It is not a feel-good story, but the true story of how a government can intervene without conscience and destroy a people. Paul Harding's ability to convey raw emotion is impressive. My heart was breaking as I listened to the audiobook version, which was well done. The characters become so real, and their resilience is amazing. To me, Apple Island is a symbol of purity, and the outside world is the sin that invades and destroys. The title, This Other Eden, is perfect for this book. The interference of the government in something so innocent and good can be summed up in this quote: "Soon enough, she thought. Soon enough, Pharaoh will come after us, like he always does." Sometimes books can give us an escape, a chance to relax, laugh, or fantasize. This is not such a book. It is a book that causes us to look at hard truths. It is the opposite of an escape. it is a reckoning. We need such books as these too. After listening to the audiobook, I purchased the ebook version. I will read this one again, because it is a master class in writing. I received a free copy of the audiobook from the publishers via Netgalley. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

What a thunderously powerful novel, slim in size but containing such depths and multitudes. The prose is exquisite, the story engaging, brutal, beautiful and based on truth. Excellent.

Paul Harding’s, “This Other Eden”, has been shortlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize, and it is well deserved. This is a novelized story based on the real Malaga Island where the Black population was driven out in 1912. Prepare to be enthralled by the denizens of “Apple Island”, as they go about their daily lives in seclusion. These characters are beautifully rendered by Harding, and their stories are so captivating, that the reader becomes immediately invested in their plight, because we know what’s being planned against them. Harding exposes the horrors of the Eugenics movement which dehumanized, stigmatized, and often sterilized, anyone who was non-white, disabled, uneducated, poor, or who merely made white people “uncomfortable”. The eugenicists decided which of these human lives mattered and which did not. How I wish we could say that this doesn’t still go on. This novel is beautifully written, utterly captivating, and well worth reading, even though it will break your heart.

“Iridescent.” The perfect word to describe this book. Apple Island, the setting of This Other Eden, was founded in 1793 by formerly enslaved Benjamin Honey and his Irish wife Patience. Benjamin immediately sets about to plant an apple orchard, which, after early failures, finally begins to bear fruit in 1814, described in this evocative paragraph, one of dozens of quotable passages: “Benjamin Honey surveyed his orchard in the cooling air and sharpening, iridescent, ocean-bent sunset light, the greens and purples deepening from their radiant flat day-bright into catacombs of shadowed fruit and limb and leaf. It felt as if his mother were somewhere among the rows. She might step from behind a tree in a white Sunday dress that took up the shifting light and color and smile at him. He inhaled the perfume, salted, as everything on the island, and took a bite of the apple he held.” That lovely paragraph encapsulates so much of the novel: the apple has been eaten, and the island off the coast of Maine, however Edenic in its avoidance of America’s “original sin” of racism, is still postlapsarian: there are murder and suffering, cold and hunger, rape and incest. Residents of the island, always sparsely populated, will on occasion suffer the consequences of inbreeding. Some residents are sure it is populated by ghosts. But Apple Island remains a place of Edenic beauty, and the images capturing the “shifting light and color” anticipate the story of Ethan Honey, one of Benjamin and Patience’s descendants, a gifted artist. Ethan’s drawings and paintings are studies in the effects of light on color, light bending through glass. Harding’s prose captures it all. When in 1912 (mild spoiler ahead in this paragraph) Ethan leaves the island from which he has rarely strayed more than a mile or two, we see the outside world through his wondering eyes. As most blurbs and reviews will tell you, This Other Eden is a fictionalized account of the forced removal from the real Malaga Island of its mixed-race residents. “Terrible how terribly good intentions turn out almost every time,” thinks Matthew Diamond, the missionary and schoolteacher who unwittingly causes a good deal of trouble and proves powerless to protect the islanders of whom he has become fond. The pretext for removal is supposedly eugenic (an infuriatingly condescending and inaccurate justification), though plans to build a hotel and, especially, simple racism are the true motives. Although this is a book about racism in America, it is not the same old sad story; it’s a terribly sad story, but with a very fresh angle. The book, not surprisingly, is full of allusions to the Bible, especially the story of Noah, as well as to Ovid, Shakespeare, and Milton. Though Paradise Lost is never directly mentioned, it offers a touching subtext. For me, a five star read is one that succeeds on every level: vivid characters, a deeply engaging plot, important themes, and impressive style. This Other Eden checks all the boxes. I confess that I had a little trouble getting into the novel at first—possibly because I started it too late in the evening—but once I got going, it was hard to put down. I had to force myself to read more slowly so I could savor the lyrical, luminous prose.

Another wonderful story from Yoko Ogawa. 😍 I kept postponing reading this book because the title, "The Memory Police," didn’t sound appealing. It gave me the wrong impression that it was a detective story. Instead, it tells the story of an island where things begin to disappear one by one. It reminded me to be thankful for the basic things we still possess in this world. We live meaningfully because we have memories. Without them, life would lose its depth. Most of the things in our lives carry sentimental value. We must be grateful for them now, because one by one, things, and even people we love, such as relatives, friends, or ourselves, will eventually disappear. That is a fact we cannot avoid. So let’s enjoy and cherish every moment of our lives. 😉 Live life to the fullest, it only happens once.

4.5 rounded up. https://www.readingavidly.com/2019/09... It wasn't too long after starting this book before I noticed something strange about it. By page 98, it hit me that for a story labeled as "Orwellian," it was written in a surprisingly quiet tone. Without discounting the bizarre events recounted in this book, the understated style alone was actually disturbing in its own right, and I experienced a sort of weird off-kilteredness throughout the story. Actually, the book works on two very different levels. The "Orwellian" tag is appropriate given how this novel is written, but there is much more going on here in terms of memory and the self. As author Silvia Moreno-Garcia says in her NPR review of this novel, "If you view The Memory Police as one big, fat metaphor for state control -- and I'm sure many people will see it as that -- you'll probably find more pleasure in it than if you attempt to consider it in other terms." It works both ways; while reading the novel and attempting to tie into it thematically, the thought of what the Memory Police might cause to disappear next haunted me right up until the ending, of which I'll say only that it might just leave people scratching their heads with a big WHAT? standing out in their minds. Pay attention to the novel within the novel, also surreal but telling. Most importantly of all, if you can just accept that things are the way they are with no explanation as to why, the reading of it will be that much more of an experience in the long run. I finished this book well over a week ago one morning about 2 a.m., laid there thinking about it for another two hours, and it hasn't left my head yet. It is one of the strangest books I've read, but honestly, for me, that's part of the appeal. Recommended with the caveat that this is a novel that will likely leave readers with more questions than answers; there is no explanation as to the why of things, described here as "the laws of the island;" they just are. While it may not be everyone's cup of tea, I loved this book; then again, I'm very much drawn to novels that I've labeled "strange with purpose," so I'm not surprised.

The Memory Police by Yoko Ogawa is a lyrical, timeless, and haunting fable exploring the nature of memory and its power to define us. Originally published in Japanese in 1994, this recent translation by Stephen Snyder feels just as fresh, provocative, and topical as a new release. Not only did I find this novel compulsively readable and deeply thought-provoking, but the disquieting tension left behind in pockets of amnesia as the disappearances increased in frequency and severity left me with a creeping sense of terror. If you don’t enjoy anxiety-inducing dreamlike novels with an open ending, The Memory Police likely isn’t for you. But, if you, like me, live for an ever-present hazily oppressive quality clinging to each page like a memory just out of reach, I would recommend you pick this one up! With themes including identity, loss, police brutality, control, and the creation of art as resistance against authoritarianism, The Memory Police is in no way light fare. The anxiety, isolation, fear, and emptiness these characters experience feel deeply relevant a year into the pandemic, speaking to this current chapter of history in a way Ogawa couldn’t have imagined 25 years ago. Despite the heavy themes and gradual horror of the story within the story, The Memory Police contains its fair share of hope: “My memories don’t feel as though they’ve been pulled up by the root. Even if they fade, something remains. Like tiny seeds that might germinate again if the rain falls. And even if a memory disappears completely, the heart retains something. A slight tremor or pain, some bit of joy, a tear.” Not all is lost in this world of forgotten treasures and abandoned professions. There is love. There is art. There is a quiet, determined strength. There are simple joys: “His soul is too dense. If he comes out, he’ll dissolve into pieces, like a deep-sea fish pulled to the surface too quickly. I suppose my job is to go on holding him here at the bottom of the sea.” I was deeply moved by this story and have been unable to stop thinking about it since my eyes scanned the bottom of the final page. It plays on my memory like a music box melody, forever repeating even after the lid has been closed. The Memory Police is absolutely worth your time. Trigger Warnings: police brutality, kidnapping, death, forced confinement, abusive relationship, sexual assault, infidelity This was included in my Top 10 Favourite Sci-Fi Books and Series video: https://youtu.be/2v0hcBS9zlQ VIDEO REVIEW: https://youtu.be/38cwhWXXnds You can find me on... Youtube | Instagram | Twitter

Combine the trance-like quality of Murakami, the dystopian theme of Orwell (1984), and the claustrophobic atmosphere of John Fowles (The Collector), and you may glean a hint of what’s awaiting you in The Memory Police. But only a hint. Yoko Ogawa had long proven her chops as a hauntingly imaginative writer, a true original, and The Memory Police only increases my admiration of her. The book takes place on an island. Little by little, things begin to vanish, one by one—"transparent things, fragrant things…fluttery ones, bright ones…wonderful things you can’t possibly imagine.” But things don’t simply vanish. The actual memory of what they meant also disappears, except for in the minds of a few outliers. Meanwhile, the stakes keep rising. Things that strike at the very heart of what makes a person a person begin to go away. Indeed, one’s very soul begins to wither. And as the inhabitants silently adapt to each disappearing, life becomes more and more empty as The Memory Police enforce the latest disappearance by thoroughly erasing anything and anyone related to what has just gone away. Outside, there is decay as well. As calendars disappear, for example, the snow falls endlessly and spring never seems to come. An earthquake occurs. There are hints of an impending tsunami. The unnamed first person narrator wonders if the island itself will cease to be. As in her previous novels — I’ve read The Housekeeper and the Professor, The Diving Pool, and Revenge — Yoko Ogawa plunges her readers into a surreal but all-too-real environment with a calmness and control that belie her subject matter. For me, there were inevitable tendrils to our current times, watching once taken-for-granted foundation such as truth, decency, humility, and humanity vanish as we bovinely adapt. This is a stunning book. Thanks to @pantheonbooks for an ARC in exchange for an honest review, which this most certainly is. #TheMemoryPolice #YokoOgawa

*chef kiss*

Winner of the International Booker Prize 2020 The last book I read which captured the confusion and darkness of a neglected childhood as perfectly as The Discomfort Of Evening is another Booker winner The God of Small Things. It is a hard task, even for the most accomplished of writers to make a child's voice compelling and immersive. Poor Jas, our protagonist has an early encounter with death when her brother dies and her family is confronted with grief and the abstruseness of an end to human life. She grows up with an unhealthy obsession with death, fueled further by her parents' depression, neglect and lack of love. She is often an accomplice to her brother's experiments with pain, violence and death. Limited by her undeveloped comprehensibility, Jas keeps stumbling on through childhood, looking for ways of escape, dreaming of a savior with her little sister Hanna, a savior who will take them to the other side. This other side refers to death just as much as it refers to the actual geographical other side of the lake. The siblings are never allowed to talk about their dead brother and consequentially develop a twisted urge to understand the mechanics of death. She felt I was good at putting myself in another’s shoes but not so great at kicking off my own and having fun. Sometimes I’d get stuck in the other person for too long because that was easier than staying inside myself. Jas is confronted with the randomness of chance and the impossibility of choice, and often mistaking one for the other, she turns into a closed, completely packed reservoir of guilt and sacrifice. When someone stands or lies too close I get the feeling I have to admit something, that I have to justify my presence: I’m here because Mum and Dad believed in me and from that thought I could be born – even though they’ve been having more doubts recently and they’re paying less attention to us. There are creases in my clothes. I’m crumpled like the screwed-up shopping list in the bin, waiting for someone to smooth me out and read me again. Jas is the embodiment of the idea "the self is other people". In her personality we see the suicidal tendencies of her mother, the grim resignation of her father, Obbe's preoccupation with violence and Hanna's thoughtfulness. In her world of parental neglect and unanswerable questions, even a healthy, preadolescent curiosity about sex and the human anatomy turns into another source of discomfort and nightmares. Her desire to look into herself and simultaneously escape from herself takes up almost all of her mental space and ends very, very badly for her. This is a well deserved win, in my opinion. Death is a process that disintegrates into actions and actions into phases. Death never just happens to you, there is always something that causes it. This time it was you. You can kill too. Update: A lot of people seem to be angry/irritated/disappointed that this book won the International Booker. Most readers are displeased because of all the disgusting, uncomfortable scenes. And there are a LOT of disgusting, uncomfortable scenes. But if we looked upon fiction only as a source of comfort or safe space, we'd also have to scorn many of the books that revolutionized the literary scene. This book deserves the prize for the very reasons it's being frowned upon: for testing the bounds of our imagination, infringing on our comfort zones and forcing us to confront the inherent discomfort within it.

The rightful winner of the 2020 International Booker Prize Death announces itself in most cases, but we’re often the ones who don’t want to see or hear it. We knew that the ice was too weak in some places, and we knew the foot-and-mouth wouldn’t skip our village. De avond is ongemak was a bestselling debut novel by Marieke Lucas Rijneveld, published when they were 26, and has been translated from the Dutch as The Discomfort of Evening by Michele Hutchison. The novel is begins just before Christmas 2000 and is narrated by Jas who begins the novel: I was ten and stopped taking off my coat. That morning, Mum had covered us one by one in udder ointment to protect us from the cold. She lives with her parents, her older brothers Matthies and Obbe and her younger sister Hanna on the family diary farm: No one stood a chance against the cows anyway; they were always more important. She is worried her father is fattening up her pet rabbit Dieuwertje (I’d named him after the curly-haired female presenter on children’s TV because I found her so pretty. - that being Dieuwertje Blok, who rather marvellously, narrated the Dutch audiobook https://twitter.com/mariek1991/status...). And Matthies is going on ahead to the lake where he was going to take part in the local skating competition with a couple of his friends. It was a twenty-mile route, and the winner got a plate of stewed udders with mustard and a gold medal with the year 2000 on it, but when she asks to come with him he refuses and then more quietly so that only I could hear it, ‘Because we’re going to the other side.’ ‘I want to go to the other side, too,’ I whispered. ‘I’ll take you with me when you’re older.’ As he leaves Jas ponders:I thought about being too small for so much, but that no one told you when you were big enough, how many centimetres on the door-post that was, and I asked God if He please couldn’t take my brother Matthies instead of my rabbit. ‘Amen. Matthies is indeed taken – the local vet comes to break the news that, skating where he shouldn’t, Matthies fell through the ice and drowned, and the family is devastated. Her parents retreat into silence, Jas can’t quite comprehend his death The cancelling of the family festivities and taking down of the Christmas tree strikes her more than the news: It was only then that I felt a stab in my chest, more than at the vet’s news. Matthies was sure to return but the Christmas tree wouldn’t.. And her denial includes refusing to take off her coat, which she wears continuously for months, and self-imposed severe constipation: I could hold in my poo. I wouldn’t have to lose anything I wanted to keep from now on. These events have echoes of the authors own life, except they were only three when their brother died in a car accident: Mijn eigen broer Arjen was twaalf toen hij verongelukte. Ik was net drie en ik begreep niet hoe hij ineens zomaar weg was. Alles werd meteen anders. Er werd amper over zijn dood gepraat en mijn ouders haalden onmiddellijk de kerstboom weg. Kinderen snappen dat niet; zodra je zo’n boom verwijdert, wordt het nóg nadrukkelijker dat er iets ergs aan de hand is. My own brother Arjen was twelve when he died in an accident. I was just three years old and I didn't understand how he suddenly disappeared. Everything immediately changed. There was hardly any mention of his death and my parents immediately removed the Christmas tree. Children don't understand that; as soon as you remove such a tree, it becomes even more emphatic that something bad is going on. (From https://www.ad.nl/utrecht/als-ik-schr... - Google translation) Marieke Lucas Rijneveld was previously known as a poet, and has explained in interviews (https://www.volkskrant.nl/cultuur-med...) how, in their view, the move to prose required them to both master dialogue, but also introduce more scatological elements (“Maar in een roman moet er af en toe ook gewoon iemand even gaan poepen of een boterham met kaas eten” = “But in a novel, now and then someone just has to poop or eat a cheese sandwich”), and cites as her inspiration the novelist Jan Wolkers, who is also quoted in the epigraph (“Hij schreef wat hij wilde schrijven, over seks, het geloof, over alles” = “He wrote what he wanted to write about sex, faith, about everything.”) Faith plays a key role – Jas’s parents, as the authors own, are members of the Reformed Church. Her own relationship with God is complicated, but her language, and that of the novel, is inflected with scripture: I’ve got so many words but it’s as if fewer and fewer come out of me, while the biblical vocabulary in my head is pretty much bursting at the seams. Jas’s upbringing is strict. The television is hidden away in a cabinet as something shameful and even when watched the content is controlled, and ideally confined to the wholesome Dieuwertje Blok: We didn’t have any of the commercial channels, only Nederland 1, 2 and 3. Dad said there wasn’t any nudity on them. He pronounced the word ‘nudity’ as though a fruit fly had just flown into his mouth–he spat as he said it. Popular music is generally frowned upon, although an exception is made for Boudewijn de Groot, even her mother unable to avoid joining in with Land van Maas en Waal: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iOKwT... And the death of their son only causes her parents to retreat further everything that requires secrecy here is accepted in silence, leaving the children to learn the facts of life themselves and to experiment with violence and sexual feelings, and the imaginative Jas to fantasise about the mysterious ‘other side’ of the lake and (bizarrely) that her mother has hidden some refugees from Hitler (whose birthday Jas shares) in the cellar: Anything can happen, I think then, but nothing can be prevented. The plan about death and a rescuer, Mum and Dad who don’t lie on top of each other any more, Obbe who is growing out of his clothes faster than Mum can learn the washing labels off by heart, and the way not just his body is growing but also his cruelty; the ticking insects in my belly which make me rock on top of my teddy bear and get out of bed exhausted, or why we don’t have crunchy peanut butter any more, why the sweets tin has grown a mouth with Mum’s voice in it that says, ‘Are you sure you want to do that?’ or why Dad’s arm has become like a traffic barrier: it descends on you whether you wait your turn or not; or the Jewish people in the basement that no one talks about, just like Matthies. Are they still alive? And as the novel progresses into 2001, further tragedy strikes, as foot and mouth disease spreads from the UK to the Netherlands. The quote that opens my review feels particularly chilling read in February 2020 as Covid-19 spreads around the world. Highly recommended and a contender to win the overall prize. Thanks to the publisher via Netgalley for the ARC. An English-language interview with the author: https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-cul...

I read The Discomfort of Evening when it won the 2020 Booker International prize and was too disturbed by it to leave a review. Reading it a second time I found it just as disturbing but, now that I know what's coming, I can appreciate the artfulness and the relentless purpose of the novel. It's breathtaking in many more ways than I thought possible. I still dislike it very much, but it does what it sets out to do so it's a five-star 'i hate it' from me.

“I know, though, that we'd have to come from a better family to be able to bury our childhood - we'd have to lie under a layer of earth ourselves, but the time isn't ripe for that yet.” How can I write about this book? The Discomfort of Evening by Dutch author Marieke Lucas Rijneveld was awarded the International Man Booker Prize for 2020 and I see many very bright and thoughtful people here could either not finish the book or ended up so disturbed by it that they one-starred it. Being Dutch-American, I’d been feeling I should read more Dutch books, and here was one that was supposedly good. And I agreed, but not without putting it down a few times and despite a nightmare or two. But that was the author’s intent, to capture the horrors of trauma. Hey, a book for our times. So this won’t exactly be a review, but I’ll say I, too, was deeply disturbed by the book even as I was completely taken in by the ten-year-old girl narrator. There’s much lyrical writing and many starkly painful descriptions of death, sexual acts, animal cruelty. What’s it about? The story is told by Jas, who loses her brother after she prays for him to die rather than her rabbit. And then the whole family, living on a dairy farm, steeped in the Dutch Reformed Church, falls apart in grief and madness--Mom stops eating and openly admits she wants to die; Dad shuts down and goes into his own madness even as he also loses his cattle to disease, and the three remaining kids are left to fend for themselves, rudderless. The spectre of a noose is present throughout. There’s a lot of disturbing vulnerable or vicious coming-of-age books--I’ve read Foster and The Ice Palace recently; there’s Lord of the Flies--that defy the often commonplace understanding that youth is about innocence and adulthood about corruption. That’s part of this book, for sure, that the horrors of the world can shape you--break you--even at the earliest ages. The children in Lydia Millet’s The Children’s Bible--for the most part good kids-- are left to raise themselves. The kids in Rinjeveld’s book are mostly not handling things well, but why do they have to be? They’re in trauma, and they’re kids. But it’s something else, too. I’m Dutch-American, as I said. My grandparents on both my mother’s and father’s sides--Schaafsmas and Kuypers--came over to the US in the late nineteenth century; both families lived in the Groningen area. The Schaafsmas were sheep farmers for generations. My mother’s family, coopers, barrel-makers, cask-makers-- had in its lineage the Dutch theologian and politician Abraham Kuyper, aligned with John Calvin. Both of my parents' families settled in Dutch western Michigan--the Holland and Grand Rapids area. They spoke Dutch and never taught us; they also spoke Frisian with each other at times. I knew (a little, maybe wrongly) that a lot of Dutch families came to the US because of religious oppression. Many were extremists. The Reformed Church featured in this book is one with which I am familiar, though the dark madness Rijneveld depicts I never personally knew. My family is/was largely sane and loving. But I knew of the Protestant Reformed Church, where kids dressed in clothes without bright colors, no tv or radio, no Sunday work or play; my family's version is called the Christian Reformed Church--I also couldn’t play outside and we couldn’t watch TV on Sunday, either--my parents went to church three days on Sunday, one service all in Dutch; I was required to go twice on Sunday. I was forced by my family and church to make public Profession of Faith and the elders urged me to renounce all worldly pursuits, including the watching of films and contemporary music and dancing. I refused. But my religion banned dancing; we did, anyway; we could these events "foot functions." I really do not know if this is true but we had heard, growing up, that there were more churches per square mile in the Zeeland area of Michigan, near Holland, than any other place in the country, but also more venereal disease and teenage pregnancy. Repression. I and my friends snorted with dark laughter when we heard this in the early seventies. The Dutch Reformed Church shapes much of the horror of this book. It provides the basic grim background, and is foregrounded many times when Dad quotes from The Bible--"The Authorized Version." It begins with the death of a brother but the religious extremism provides no comfort, only further horror. Is it fair to Dutch Christians? Everything the mad Dad quotes from the Bible to threaten his children I know. But this Dad is crazed in a way I have never met. “I’ve discovered that there are two ways of losing your belief: some people lose God when they find themselves; some people lose God when they lose themselves.” In my church as I grew up--steeped in a Calvinist first principle of Original Sin as a way of understanding all the bad in the world--I heard much more about sin than love, much more about Hell than Heaven. My church was one of the most conservative in western Michigan, though my family was happy, not brutal or cruel. In this book the parents are just lost, and thus the kids are. Jas has deft and lyrical observations, but she is spinning in her grief and her own madness: “I nod and think about the teacher who said I’d go far with my empathy and boundless imagination, but in time I’d have to find words for it because otherwise everything and everybody stays inside you. And one day, just like the black stockings which my classmates sometimes tease me about wearing because we’re Reformists – even though I never wear black stockings – I will crumple in on myself until I can only see darkness, eternal darkness.” “I don’t want to feel any sadness, I want action; something to pierce my days, like bursting a blister with a pin so that the pressure is eased.” “Later I sometimes thought that this was when the emptiness began. . .” At one point Jas decides to never take off her coat: “Nobody knows my heart. It's hidden deep inside my coat, my skin, my ribs. My heart was important for nine months inside my mother's belly, but once I left the belly, everyone stopped caring whether it beat enough times per hour. No one worries when it stops or begins to beat fast, telling me there must be something wrong.” I left the Dutch Reformed Church that I saw in my experience--though I had friends who had much better and more uplifting and loving experiences--was dark and repressive and joyless. I think that this is a book about loss, grief, madness, framed by the darkness of a religion that provides no relief, no succor, no healing balm, no joy. What happens in the book as the family descends into madness is very disturbing though also is filled with amazing observations and lyrical language, too. It’s horrible and heart-breaking and at the same time kind of amazingly depicted at times. I am quite sure it is too graphic for many people and I understand that and warn you. “We find ourselves in loss and we are who we are – vulnerable beings, like stripped starling chicks that fall naked from their nests and hope they’ll be picked up again.”

FINAL REVIEW // In high school, I was practically friends with everyone. I was friendly with all the different social hierarchies. Perhaps this is because I didn’t really self-identify with any one group. I made sure to talk to everyone: from the popular kids to the students considered to be the bottom of the totem pole. I have seen people getting bullied. It was always strange to see people who I considered friends bullying people who I also considered friends. And yet I said nothing. I didn’t tell the bullies to stop, I didn’t step in to defend the ones being bullied, and I didn’t tell an authority figure. This book had me revisiting that time period of my life. It made me wonder: why do people bully others? Why do bullies mostly get away with it? It made me contemplate why people stand by the sidelines and do nothing? It made me think about why when we know it’s wrong, we still gather in groups to watch the “spectacle.” And most of all, it made me come to understand that as much as I thought I understood the anguish bullied kids go through, I couldn’t possibly fathom how much pain and misery it must be to wake up every morning, knowing you’ll have to face the fresh hell that will be unleashed on you when you get to school. Basically, I was only getting the bare minimum, only pieces of the whole story: what about all the times I did not see? What is it truly like to live with endless agony? Why did I stay silent? . This book dives into a lot of these feelings, questions, and contemplations. We follow a 14-year old boy who is given the nickname “Eyes” because of his lazy eye. He is tormented at school by his peers, especially a threatening group of boys from his class. He develops a friendship with a girl named Kojima, who is also a victim of bullying albeit for a different reason. What a heartbreaking, devastating, and absorbing story. And hard-hitting. Kawakami doesn’t shy away from the brutality and barbarism of bullying. If you’re an emotional reader, this book is going to break your heart into tiny pieces…several times. And if you were/are a victim of bullying, you may want to steer clear of this one—Just a friendly heads up. The bullying scenes are extremely intense and detailed. There is one particularly harrowing scene that seems to go on and on, which had me feeling deeply unsettled and left a lump in my throat. You’re witness to every dark thought, every act of desperation, every cry for help. And the reading experience makes you feel powerless. . Although this is a story of trauma, emotional fragility, and helplessness, there is also a lot of beauty to be found: friendship, love, and loyalty. And let’s not forget: breathtaking imagery. The last two pages are gorgeous. And can I say, “Heaven” is the perfect title for this book. Emotional, philosophical, extraordinary. One of my favorite books of the year for sure. I need to read Kawakami’s other books, like, now. This book left me breathless… and broken. https://www.instagram.com/p/CQRFpyTLi...

My review of Heaven is published at Before We Go Blog. “It’s Heaven, the place I want to show you.” Heaven is Mieko Kawakami’s heartbreaking novel about middle-school bullying. Originally published in Japan in 2009, Heaven was translated into English in 2021 following the success of Kawakami’s Breasts and Eggs (2019), which released in 2020 in the anglophone world. I recently had the pleasure of buddy reading Heaven with the wonderful Tori Tecken and offer my thoughts below. Heaven takes place in 1991 and is narrated by an unnamed fourteen-year-old boy who is subjected to a horrifying level of bullying at school. A glimmer of hope appears in the form of secret notes left by his classmate, Kojima, a shy girl who endures an equally dreadful amount of bullying from her female classmates. The relationship between Kojima and the narrator forms the emotional core of the novel as they seek to console each other and find meaning in suffering: “What matters is that all the pain and all the sadness have meaning.” There is an enduring yet endearing awkwardness in their relationship, which spans the entire novel. The theme of broken homes also hits hard for both protagonists in Heaven. All the adults in their lives seem oblivious to their suffering. There is also an undercurrent of colorism in how the darker-skinned Kojima is treated at school. I love Mieko Kawakami’s simple yet poetic writing style and the honest way in which she captures emotion. Kawakami’s sparse yet incisive prose recalls that of Banana Yoshimoto, another one of my favorite Japanese authors. Kawakami’s representation of pain is especially poignant: “People are different, though. Sometimes you can’t see the scars. But there’s a lot of pain, I think.” For me, the cruelty exhibited in Heaven hits especially hard given its real-world setting and the bullying I personally experienced as a student (which was not nearly as bad as in the book). Mieko Kawakami frames bullying as part of a greater philosophical clash between existentialism and nihilism. One of the bullies, Momose, spews nihilistic arguments about the absence of meaning in the world. The complete lack of morality and unchecked abuse from the bullies reminded me a bit of William Golding’s classic, Lord of the Flies. Altogether, Heaven is a deeply emotional and thought-provoking read which offers an unflinchingly honest representation of adolescent bullying. Readers should be aware of multiple trigger warnings, including physical and emotional abuse, major depression, suicidal thoughts, and sexual bullying.

“If there’s a hell, we’re in it. And if there’s a heaven, we’re already there. This is it.” The 14-year-old narrator with a lazy eye is in a hell that anyone who has ever been persecuted in high school will instantly recognize. Throughout the novel, he remains unnamed, as if he is so unimportant that his name doesn’t even matter. He is bullied and tortured by a band of tormenters to the point that readers will find themselves begging for some kind of deliverance or intervention. It doesn’t come. The only solace he receives is through a budding friendship with a girl named Kojima, who is also bullied because of her bad hygiene. She invites him to join her to visit the art museum to view a painting she calls “Heaven.” Although his time with her is a welcome respite, he never does get to see the painting. As our narrator spins down to near despair, an unexpected encounter with one of the oppressors establishes the themes that run through this novel. Do bullies do anything because they believe they have the right, or do they do it simply because they want to? Is being a victim happenstance? “There’s no reason it has to be you,” the bully explains. “It could have been anyone. But you happened to be there, and we happened to all be in a certain mood, so things went the way they did.” The world, Mieko Kawakami’s character implies, is all about coincidence. That’s just how the world works. Certainly, Heaven is a dark, nihilistic book, but it is wonderfully executed. The bullying is difficult to view, but I would challenge any reader to turn away.

⋆౨ৎ˚⟡˖ ࣪ ☆ 5 i can’t explain this book omg.. it’s so good yet so heartbreaking loved it! it’s definitely i book everyone should read even though it’s a hard read to get through because of the bullying

Two decades ago, the Irish writer Paul Murray started his career by publishing “An Evening of Long Goodbyes,” a book that has remained one of this century’s greatest comedies. With this month’s publication of “The Bee Sting,” Murray has written a book that could remain one of its greatest novels. He was hardly sitting still between these two triumphs. In 2010, “Skippy Dies” was a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award, and in 2016, “The Mark and the Void” was joint winner of the Bollinger Everyman Wodehouse Prize, a British award for comic literature. Admittedly, even that record of success might not be enough to draw American readers to Murray’s new 650-page epic, which was longlisted for the Booker Prize on Aug. 1. But anyone who starts “The Bee Sting” will be immediately absorbed by this extraordinary story about the derailing of a once prosperous family. Although Murray is a fantastically witty writer, his empathy with these characters is so deep that he can convey the comedy of their foibles without the condescending bitterness of satire. His command of their lives is so detailed that he can strip away every pretense and lie without spoiling a surprise. And, most impressive, while sinking into the peculiar flaws of this one uniquely troubled family, Murray captures the anxiety many of us feel living on the edge of economic ruin in these latter days of the Anthropocene Epoch. In the small Irish town where “The Bee Sting” unfolds, Dickie and Imelda Barnes are a prominent couple. Dickie runs a car dealership owned by his retired father, and his wife, Imelda, is a legendary beauty. But as the novel opens, the pretty facade of their lives has started to. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

“I’m changing the truth.” Let me start, though, at the end. And at the end, my fugitive heart flew out of my delicate chest and expanded, inflated, soared on puffy wings and a pagan prayer. The end. I’d rather finish there than spoil it for readers, as every single page bulges with new discoveries and the celebration of the novel form itself. The story takes place in a berg a few hours from Dublin, and Dickie and Imelda Barnes, once wealthy from the VW sales and garage business (inherited from Dickie’s father), are now struggling due to the financial crash. So, it is probably just a few years after 2008, but not specifically stated. Dickie and Imelda carry their secrets about like albatrosses. Imelda, in her late thirties, is and was the most beautiful woman in four provinces. As a young teen, she was the poor Cinderella waiting for her prince. She met Frank, Dickie’s younger brother--an athlete, a stunner, a charmer. She fell in love. And once you learn about Imelda’s family, you’ll want her to fall in love, too. But then tragedy strikes. We know this up front, what we don’t know is why Imelda married Dickie after all this. It’s all part of the masquerade and how the past keeps insisting on the present. And the future is already in crisis. One of its prominent themes is that you can’t dismiss the past, and you can’t take it down. You have to live with it in the present and reckon with it if you want to have a future. There’s a fable that Imelda, the mother/wife character, is reminded of. It is a Brigadoon-esque fable, (but from Irish folklore), where a man sees a door, opens it, enjoys a hedonistic experience, only to find that, when he leaves, it is 100 years later and his family is dead and gone. The present also kicks up plenty of dirt in this masterpiece. How does Murray do this? The past unwinds, then rewinds, then ferociously unspools, while the present comes thundering in like a flood. “Every moment was the moment when everything changed.” While the past rears its ugly head as a portentous cataclysm of the here-and-now, I wondered how the future would unfold. Murray is a spry reader’s writer, he’s a fusion artist--of how a postmodern novel can embrace the old form of a narrative and give the reader that sense of extended drama. Murray enfolds the art of the conventional novel and then, simultaneously, sticks a fork in it, blows it up, and then carries on and takes you with him. This book seemed to contain at least a thousand pages in its 643, yet I digested it as if it were only 100. There’s absolutely no fluff in here, no padding, no extra or waste. Every word needs to be there, each page contains multitudes. It isn’t the headache-inducing density type of text, it isn’t whimsical, either. It’s natural and imaginative in correspondence. Cynicism has no footing here, so the characters and storytelling are generous, irresistible. BEE STING is full of people at their most desperate, and consequently they leak their hidden desires, needs, and display impulsive conduct. The family is frantic from the endless fallout of the crash, and their fate intersects with the powers of the past. The humanity in this story is compelling, the dialogue, setting, and events grounded in a relatable reality, however wild and furious it gets. Pain and pleasure are mutual, often in concert. The setting is on a collision course with climate change—drought, flood, belligerent heat, other natural disasters or near-disasters. Imelda is selling off her jewelry on eBay to survive, and Dickie is rapidly declining—emotionally--all the while building a bunker in the woods with his peculiar friend, Victor. The family of four are all slipping gradually through the cracks, like getting buried in an earthquake. Imelda and Dickie’s teenage daughter, Cass, is hopefully headed for Trinity College in Dublin. She aims to ride on the coattails of her best friend, Elaine. Cass will do anything for Elaine, she’s in her thrall. Cass’ 12-year-old brother, PJ, is a science nerd, a video-game geek, who suffers from adolescent problems to the 10th power, especially as some menacing oaf is putting PJ’s life in danger, demanding money. Oh, and there is an Aunt Rose who is straight out of a fairytale, who can foretell the future. Each character has their own chapters/sections and are punctuated (or not punctuated at all) to match their thoughts, feelings, and approach to the world. Before you turn away from Imelda’s zero punctuation, know this: Paul Murray’s superb writing gently coaxes you to quickly imbibe his rhythm. You’re willing because it’s organic and authentic. The nature of Imelda’s character and how she thinks and talks seduces you right from the start. It’s like canoeing on accelerated waters---you will place your oars in the water to go with the flow. It’s not hard. It requires you to pay attention, but the sweep and movement of the narrative suck you right in. BEE STING has girth, it has weight, and the rhythm is musical, lyrical; the story had its hooks in me straight off. And I’ve never been so fascinated with a writer’s ability to pull the past into the center of the present. I keep going back to that point, I know. The stylistic mastery of this author blew me away. The microcosm of this story within the macrocosm of Ireland is finely polished, even when feelings are bitter and raw. I twinned with Murray, as if the words came from my own mouth. It was like me telling this story to me. You don’t need an audio book; this reads like audible language that you can hear, in your ears and in your soul. This is a brilliant book, my first Paul Murray, and I’ve already ordered the rest of his oeuvre. I won’t bore you with, “If you only read one book this year…” but if you want an unsentimental soap opera without the soap, which is credible and emotionally satisfying, with an ending that will have everyone debating, well, you’ve come to the right novel. Murray is sly and cheeky. I see the Franzen influence. I also see an incisive David Foster Wallace influence (INFINITE JEST) right here: “…we are paid in entertainment. The novel was the first instance in what in the twenty-first century has become a vast and proliferating entertainment industry, an almost infinite machine designed to distract us and disempower us. We are presented with a virtual world powered, literally, by the incineration of the real.”

This was an excellent family drama with superb characterization. One of my favorites of the year so far!

You know a book is phenomenal when you eagerly read 650 pages and even then, you’re saddened that the author didn’t write more. That’s the kind of book The Bee Sting is. After reading Paul Murray’s prior book, Skippy Dies, I knew I was in for a treat. I just didn’t know how much. At its core is a fable: a weary and cold traveler discovers a door in the side of a hill. Inside there is food, music, conviviality, and a warm welcome. The traveler willingly partakes. But the next day, he wakes up alone and stiff on the side of the hill and can no longer. When he arrives back home, he is dismayed to find his home reduced to a pile of stones and his family dead. While he was diverted by entertainment, a hundred years have gone by an that time cannot be regained. The Barnes family consists of Dickie, the owner of a Volkswagen dealership, his beautiful wife Imelda, daughter Cass who dreams of college in Dublin with her bestie Elaine, and PJ, who is obsessed with video games and existential threats. The family consistently is haunted by events that reshaped the past, the drama that is upending the present, and issues beyond their control for the future – such as the degradation of “normal” life through climate change. They are alienated from each other and even from themselves. They are also the architects of their own life through choices that can, at any time, reach out and destroy them. Slowly but surely, they are being pushed to that door where everything will change. Much of what they “put out there” are fables they spin themselves. For instance, the book takes its title from a bee sting that Imelda falls victim to on her way her wedding, forcing her to stay veiled the entire time. At least, that’s what everyone believes. Barnes family members put on their metaphorical veil to shelter themselves, but the outside world, along with its threats, is just a thin layer away. As they unconsciously inch closer and closer to events that will undo them and turn their world into something unrecognizable, the novel escalates in tension and the voices begin to integrate together. The last pages are breathtaking and unforgettable. This book is short-listed for the Booker Prize and if it doesn’t win, there is no justice. I give it 6 stars and envy those about to embark on its journey.

Adored this. Apparently this book came out two years ago but I only heard about it last year. Regardless, I'm so glad I found my way to it and then back to it after putting it down initially. The length is daunting, I decided to read it on audio and this was a great decision. Such a sneaky book, it really wormed its way into my heart so slowly. It does what it says it's going to do, gets into the heart of one particular dysfunctional family, but the way it opens up took me by surprise. After starting the book following teenage Cass and tween PJ, I thought I had a pretty good handle on this family. And then the section following mother Imelda just broke me wide open, showed me just how much I didn't know, all the intricacies under the surface that the children never see. And how much it went beyond just not understanding details of your parents' lives. And then when we got to father Dickie, I at least knew that this book would probably once again open up this character but this time I thought I was prepared, thought I probably had an idea of who he was. And once again just a heartbreaker. Followed by a finale with like five more heartbreakers. Just the way Murray opens up these characters, shows you the surface, then what's beneath, then takes us back to all of their interactions where we can see all of it--what they show, what they hide--I can't remember the last time I saw switching characters used this effecitvely in a novel. It has started to feel like just a trick domestic thrillers use but here Murray gives a masterclass. Feels like the kind of book you could recommend to all kinds of readers, you just have to make space for its high page count. And believe me I get that that isn't always a small ask. But this book really paid off, enjoyed it just immensely. Made me believe in what the novel is capable of.

This broke me in a million different ways. A straight-up tragedy. Loved every single page of this. SKIPPY DIES is slightly better (I had to say that), but this is easily one of the best books I’ve read all year. More to come.

Shortlisted for the 2023 Booker. The story is about an Irish family that is slowly starting to implode. The Barnes family is a wealthy, or at the very least “financially comfortable” family at the start of the book. But the car business that provides this comfort is crumbling. Fortune is changing for the Barnes family, and this change in fortune affects every member of the family. Cass, the teenage daughter, is about to head off to Dublin to University, but now that future is in jeopardy. Imelda, the mother, sees her life of luxury sliding of the cliff and is selling everything she can on ebay to stave the slide. Dickie, the father, is off in the woods building a shelter in preparation for the end of the world. And PJ, the young son, just wants the latest video game. In a nutshell that is what the book is about. The Barnes family and their troubles. The perspective changes between all members of the family. Without giving away spoilers, the rapid perspective shifts and the shortening of the passages builds to an incredible ending. It is a bit of a “coming of age” novel for the children. Cass and PJ go through all the highs and lows of growing up. Friendships, relationships, popularity, social survival. It is a joy reading the lives of these two siblings. With Dickie and Imelda, it’s more of an existential crisis that inevitably spills over into the children's lives. The existence of their marriage, their wealth, even themselves. For me, perception is a theme explored by Murray. Everybody sees things differently. My perception of somebody’s character may be completely different than yours. For example, Dickie believes that his younger brother Frank, thinks he is a bit of a loser. Awkward and solitary, not popular. And yet we find his perception is completely different to how Frank sees Dickie. He looks up to his older brother and is actually a little intimidated by his intelligence. Imelda’s father believes that Frank admires him for his masculinity. Watching old videos of fights from his boxing career, the father believes that Frank is impressed when he is actually scared and abhorred by the father’s violence. There are so many instances in this book where the reader finds out that an anecdote or character is very different from what most believe. Just like the wonderful “Skippy Dies”, this novel is darkly comical and yet frighteningly violent at times. There is a character who can see the future. A black dog appearing when somebody is about to die. Murray consistently returns to an Irish Folk tale in which a man is taken in from a storm, sheltered for the night by folk who turn out to be fairies. The next day when he leaves, 100 years have passed, his family and friends long lost to the ravages of time. Is this story meant to represent the losses that the Barnes family is enduring? He also refers to Bees many times, with the title referring to an instant that provides a startling revelation late in the novel. Reading this reminded me of how much I enjoyed “Skippy Dies” and reminded me just how gifted a storyteller Murray is. Yes, it is a long novel but if you enjoyed “Skippy Dies” then I believe you will enjoy every page. This was a buddy read with the wonderful Nat K. Please have a read of her review when she posts it. They are always so much better than mine.

Living in a small town outside Dublin, the Barnes family is in a wee bit of trouble. Dickie is struggling to keep afloat the family business, a car dealership owned by his father-in-law. Imelda is dealing with her past demons and trying to keep the house solvent. Cass needs to pass her exams but has friend troubles. PJ just wants to run away. WOW. A family drama done beautifully! Each family member’s issues were so well-constructed, so brilliantly described. I had instant empathy for all of the above. I was so invested in each character’s lives, really wanting it all to work out. I felt so bad for each! I loved Cass and her issues with her friend! I loved PJ, wanted him to get away from the bully! Oh, and Imelda’s tale, her long-lost love, his issues, and the “bee sting!” And Dickie’s problems, his history in college! The emotions were really roiling. I loved the “voices,” too. Each chapter is third person but in the mind of one of the four family members. Later, even some of the side characters are given a voice (and I liked how Big Mike’s voice turned out!). I don’t normally go for the “no punctuation” that was Imelda, but after a while I just adored it. Murray just nails the concerns, feelings, thought processes of each generation. He jumped into a boy’s thoughts, a teenager’s, all. This was Barbara Kingsolver-like. The flow was wonderful. It’s a long book but didn’t feel like it at all. And a fantastic, crescendo, cliffhanger ending. Excellent! Side note: I NEED to visit Ireland. I always wanted to see where my grandmother grew up, and maybe see long-lost relatives. Yeah, this seals it. I loved An Evening of Long Goodbyes and Skippy Dies, but this tops them both. Easily in my top 5, maybe even 2, of the year! GO GET IT RIGHT NOW!!! -- Trigger warning: graphic rape

simply brilliant

A new novel by Paul Murray is always cause for celebration. Despite having promised us long ago that he was going to go short on the next one, this opus clocks in at 643 pages and it is not too long. In fact, he could have done with a few more pages because he forgot to tell us what happens. Don’t want to be Debbie Downer, but he leaves us high and dry after the flood. But, as with all things Murray, that turns out to be a good thing. We may not have been able to take, psychologically, what he was dishing out and we could therefore finish the tale in any way that keeps us carrying on carrying on. As in previous novels, he goes down hard for “climate change.” Just sayin’…if you think we have it bad now, just do nothing and see how that turns out. The most endearing, funny and tragic (all at once) thing about Murray’s stories is that his characters are such vulnerable blunderers, like most of us. We can probably all recite those sore spots in our lives when we made just the worst possible decision because it looked pretty good at the time. At the same time Murray makes us laugh, really laugh at the confusion of a middle school student trying to break through his older sister’s airy dismissals as he tries to get her to concentrate on family issues that are plaguing him. “Butterflies drink crocodile tears!” Meanwhile, the older sister, a high school student trying to reconcile the bitter spew her beautiful literature teacher has published as poetry, completely misconstrues her father’s distress at his own plight vis à vis his marriage to his dead brother’s financée. Her father continues to dig a hole from which he cannot extricate himself, never explaining nor coming to terms with himself, his family, his needs, his own life…the only thing he has that is truly his. The central conceit, the bee sting, I think can be interpreted in many ways; one way is to recognize that bees are critical to life on earth and yet have a nasty way of making their presence felt when humans do not pay sufficient attention to their surroundings. A central lesson of the book was that it is difficult to overstate how profoundly the universe does not care about your issues. So, best to put yourself in the best position to pay attention and stop thinking so constantly about how you will be perceived for doing something that feels right. Best phrase: "His brother's life often reminded him of a soap opera written in crayon." Brilliant. For the laughs, read it. For the lessons on how to conduct yourself in a f—ked-up world, read it. Rejoice, there is a poet amongst us.

Everyone has a life they share with others and one they lead in secret. Normally, our little daydreams, spleens or desires are not worth mentioning, they don't hurt anyone and don't lead us astray. But what happens when they are so big that they do just that? When the part of our personality that we hide from those closest to us grows over our heads and its shadows become so long that we can no longer see the light? Paul Murray explores this question in his monumental work "The Bee Sting", probing the weaknesses and abysses of his characters in an extremely exciting and harrowing way. The Barnes family consists of Dickie, the father, Imelda, the mother, Cass the teenage daughter and PJ, her younger brother. Each of them gets their chapter in the novel, each speaks in their own voice and each of them has something to hide from the others. Shocked, we witness the decline of a family whose members are scarred by life, who struggle with the past, who get caught in their own dilemma, who fail to confide in each other and when they do, are not listened to. In their failing communication, they set in motion a chain reaction of unfortunate events on the scale of an ancient tragedy. The novel is a black undertow that grips us, pushes us under the water together with the characters and only occasionally allows us to surface and gasp for air. The air becomes increasingly scarce, the field of vision narrows, everything strives towards a finale that closes the circle. And everything is carried by the ambivalence of the symbol that gives the title. At the same time, we see a quiet and sometimes louder humour shimmering through between the lines, which is always on point and makes the characters seem even more human, because humanity is the central theme: we are fallible, fickle and unteachable and sometimes we act out of selfishness, sometimes out of love and sometimes for inexplicable reasons. Murray has not only created a heartbreaking family story with terrific characters, he also serves the themes of our time - diversity, climate activism, wokeness and the great paranoia that is rampant. Every now and then it rumbles a little, but still you wish the book was even thicker than it is. "The Bee Sting" is a great novel of our time, a stocktaking of the present and in the mirror that Murray holds up to our society float all the lost spirits that surround us and which also include a part of ourselves. An unforgettable masterpiece.

And now begins one of the worst book hangovers ever….

I'm not a big fan of books that can be filed along comedic. This could be due to the fact that I may not have a sense of humor but I can count on one hand, books that have made me laugh. Otherwise, I get irritated. Such was the case when I read Paul Murray's second novel Skippy Dies, a book that annoyed me so much that I left it behind in the UK (I was on holiday) when I finished it. I found it deeply unfunny, contrived and plain stupid. Which leads us to The Bee Sting, Murray's fourth novel. In a way it treads the same path as Skippy Dies - tragicomic and epic in scope but... well I'll tell you my opinion in a bit. The Bee Sting is a family saga: It's 2008 and The Barnes are all in trouble. Dickie's car sale business is going bankrupt due to the recession , Imelda is discovering she is not in love with Dickie, her daughter Cassandra has a toxic friend and her brother PJ is friendless and tends to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Through flashbacks we soon discover how these problems occurred. In the process Paul Murray manages to explore a hefty number of themes: Sexual orientation, social class, online behaviour, climate change and gender politics. This is just skimming the surface. This is a busy book. I thought it was excellent: At times the book is experimental with it's styles ranging from poetic to sections without any grammar (don't worry you'll probably notice it halfway through). I particularly enjoyed how certain moments of the book (like the titular Bee Sting) play with illusion and reality. I liked how the characters developed and then there's the ending, which I guarantee will stick with the reader. Not too many authors can pull this off but Paul Murray manages. I have read many family sagas but The Bee Sting does approach the genre in a fresh way. A thoroughly enjoyable read and, I dare say, I can see it winning the 2023 Booker Prize.

Kawakami became one of my all time favorite authors last year when I read four of her books and gave three of them around 5 stars. This is another five star and for me the main standout in an exemplary ouevre of fiction. If I had to pick 5 books to read stranded on an island, this would be one of them. This is one of the best written pieces of fiction I have EVER come across and I love it with all my heart. I am such a nitpicky reviewer, but there honestly is nothing here I would change. Beautiful, sad, hopeful, inspiring, thought provoking, scientific, fantastical, anthropological, there's nothing here this book isn't and it does it all exceedingly well. Just wow.

4.5 It starts as a (pretty simple) dystopian story, but it turns out to be a great meditation on humanity, loneliness and our need to invent gods, empathy vs. competition, AI and its limits and finding a way to save ourselves.

Oh boy am I going to be supremely annoying about this one! Favorite of the year? A new all-time favorite? Updated: “Let’s go to the baths today, Miss Ikuko said, so we all got ready. In our rides of white gauze, we took the children by their hands, formed a line, and walked the five minutes or so to the river, down the flagstone path. Some of the stones were missing where they had come loose. Up ahead, Miss Chiaki stopped every so often at these empty spots, crouching to scoop up the fragments scattered on the ground into her palm. ‘It could be much worse,’ Miss Ikuko said soothingly.” Listen, I had zero plans to do individualized reviews this week due to how much time I’m spending reading over Spring Break. But this book, this book warranted a full review. In this speculative fiction novel, set in the far distant future, the narrative is split up into 14 different chapters/episodes/stories, each told from a different perspective. As each perspective shares their experiences, a more complete picture of the state of the world and the state of humanity is crafted. Humanity has changed. Humanity has evolved, and yet, in many ways maintains consistency. I found of the narrators to be distinct and each story that was told was immediately gripping. The web of interconnectedness that Kawakami weaves was impressive and begs for a reread after reaching it the novel’s conclusion. There are so many additional things I want to say about these stories as individual pieces and as a collective, but I don’t want to spoil anything that unfolds. There were components of this story that felt familiar in a fantastic way: -I saw elements of Kazuo Ishiguro’s Never Let Me Go & Klara and the Sun in large part due to narrators and the way they reveal their world to the reader (as well as with regard to other elements). -I saw elements Lois Lowry’s The Giver in relation to an exploration of humanity’s relationship to community. -I saw elements of Daniel Mason’s North Woods. Largely related to the story’s structure, but also related to my personal reading experience and connection to that novel. -I saw elements of Hayao Miyazaki’s collected works in their shared commentary on humanity’s relationship with the environment, war, and conflict. -I saw elements of Ted Chiang’s “The Story of Your Life” (and its film adaptation, Arrival) in its exploration of time and life’s interconnected. And yet, this still felt so supremely unique to me. There are components of this novel that I didn’t fully comprehend, but it left me wanting more. It left me wanting to start it over again to find the threads and the breadcrumbs that I missed the first time around. Under the Eye of the Big Bird is in the running for my favorite book of the year, and honestly, might be entering the upper echelon of all-time favorites. I can’t recommend it enough!

I read Under the Eye of the Big Bird back in September and was gob smacked. It’s a well-considered, thoughtful work of science fiction. With each of its fourteen unifying stories, it gradually unfolds, revealing its beauty, ideas, secrets—blossoming into a remarkable novel about humanity on the brink of extinction. Its final chapter hints at new ways of perceiving some of the preceding narratives, and I was eager to revisit them. This, I thought, is a puzzle, and I’m going to piece it all together on my reread. But I was wrong. Hiromi Kawakami’s masterful, haunting book isn’t a puzzle meant to be consumed and explained. It’s a work of art to be reflected upon, to be felt. I don’t wish to say much about the story because the joy truly is in the way Kawakami teases out the details in her ethereal narratives while exploring what it means to be human. And why is it that so many of humanity’s most remarkable attributes... the ambition to think beyond conventions, to explore, to question the shadows on the wall, to think outside the box and conquer this existence we call life—why must they also come entwined with such self-destructive counterparts? Continue to read on my SUBSTACK.

“Don't you wish all my tomorrows and all your tomorrows could be together like this? Tomorrow, and the day after that, and the day after that, and on and on?” . . . When you read this novel, you’ll pause often and think about many things, because even halfway through or even more, you’ll find yourself lost, not really knowing what you’re reading. But in the end, you’ll gather the scattered pieces, and you’ll find yourself facing a truly deep and remarkable novel. You can’t really put it into words. Honestly, no one can understand what you’re saying about it unless they’ve read it themselves. . “I hope we meet again," I murmured. "We'll meet again, somewhere, someday,” . This novel may not be loved by those who aren’t fans of Japanese literature, as the storytelling is, as usual, slow and calm, filled with philosophical symbolism. As for me, I loved the characters. Most of them were unique and remarkable, with their own thoughts and rebellion. And despite the strangeness of the events, the writing was smooth and delicate, like a long poem telling a story across the ages. And to be honest, what happens could happen to us too, one day, in some time. . . . “My brothers, my father, my mother-they all wanted to be understood. But as soon as I truly understood them, they started to hate me for it. to them, being known was the same as being controlled.”

This book left me wanting more, which I guess can be either good or bad. I liked the writing a lot. Even though each chapter stands alone like a short story, you still get a sense of what it’s all about. It did take me a few chapters to really get into it. What you need to know: some stories are connected, some aren’t. I probably missed a few links, to be honest. (I‘d suggest writing down the names) I don’t think this book is for everyone. Some of the stories were so short and left me hanging. But the overall premise was amazing! It takes place waaaaay in the future. And yet… it didn’t feel like sci-fi. It felt organic, strange & subtle. The whole thing reminded me a bit of the movie „Fantastic Planet“. Not in the plot, but in the mood: surreal, slightly unsettling, but beautiful in its own weird way. Just lean back and enjoy the ride.

There are plenty of books speculating on the future of humanity and the potential apocalypses we may face, but for me this is one of the most successful books to pull this genre off. It was beautiful, imaginative, and so layered with questions of humanity across this epic, millennia-spanning story. Kawakami pushes her writing further than she’s ever done before but remains steadfast in her simple and affective voice. I loved it, the cyclical nature of it was crafted expertly, and it reminded me of the works of David Mitchell that I’ve loved so much. This one will definitely stay with me!

"...Epic in scale if not in size, Under the Eye of the Big Bird is a far-reaching, far-ranging story of the end of the human race. It takes place over many thousands or even millions of years as shrinking numbers of human beings stubbornly cling to existence on the planet Earth. Tiny, unconnected communities have found their own ways to survive. One community genetically-engineers children in a factory using material from whales and rabbits. Another carefully censors the ideas in the community, rejecting anyone who develops unique abilities or “transformative potential” as also potentially dangerous. A third, suffering from a shortage of men, sends the same man to father children with women all over the sparsely-populated community. Like many of Kawakami’s other works in translation, there are also feminist themes in play here. In particular, the novel is an extended consideration of the role of mother—sometimes played out to its metaphorical extremes. A woman has raised at least fifty children, many of whom are now forgotten. An “F” allows her children to “eat” her in a bizarre reimagining of breast feeding. (Translator Asa Yoneda does a laudable and noteworthy job rendering the different ways Kawakami plays with sex and gender in the novel, such as identifying those who can bear children as “F”s and those who cannot as “M”s.) Most importantly, mysterious “mothers” observe, teach, and supervise human development without actually being a part of it—“mothers are only mothers, after all, and there is no need to speak of them as if they were people...” See my full review in the Asian Review of Books, July 25, 2025: https://asianreviewofbooks.com/under-...

I love it when a book exceeds my expectations - this one did and blew those expectations out of the water. Set in the distant future this book tackles how humanity handles being on the brink of extinction. One mass casualty event isn’t what humankind faces, it’s positioned that our decisions and some smaller calamities lead to our extinction. Humankind's will to survive, stubbornness and sheer desire to survive keeps the blinders on and we keep rejecting the notion that our time on Earth is nearing its end. Some fascinating themes woven into the overarching storyline are future human evolution, technology, sexuality and reproduction. “Big Bird” is a collection of connected short stories. I’m a bigger fan of a complete novel over a collection. But, this assemblage was incredible. The association between these stories was sometimes rather loose, sometimes tight, but was always interesting & enjoyable. And let me tell you that the last couple of chapters are mind blowing. The denouement is POWERFUL. It’s huge. It’s one of the best I’ve had the pleasure of reading. Kawakami is a fantastic storyteller & my experience with this fantastic book makes me want to check out more of their work. Thank you very much to Soft Skull for the gifted copy of this book. My opinions are my own but I can’t thank them enough for the opportunity to read this one!

This is one of the most unusual reading experiences I have had in years. The structure feels like separate stories at first, distinct and slightly disorienting, but as you move through the book, they begin to read like vignettes that quietly assemble themselves into a cohesive meditation on the human experience. You might not always know exactly what is happening, but the book rewards you for letting go and trusting the process. Kawakami explores isolated communities and how the worlds they belong to shape identity, belief, and memory. There is a strong and affecting thread of motherhood and parenting running throughout, alongside questions of family and belonging. The mysterious Watches are intriguing, but I found the Mothers far more compelling, especially in the surprising and sometimes unsettling relationships that form around them. The timeline is epic, spanning collapse, evolution, and multiple forms of intelligence. Our present reality becomes a kind of fable, with characters discussing life and society with an almost innocent detachment, as if our modern world were a myth. The novel grapples with cloning, division, and the persistence of racism, while continually returning to the question of how love can be expressed across radically different beings. It is challenging, but patient reading and understanding deepen as you progress. Despite its dystopian elements, there are moments of real tenderness and human fragility. I was also struck by how relevant it feels now, despite being published in 2016. It makes an excellent companion read to Slow Gods by Claire North, very different in tone but resonant in theme. The audiobook, with multiple narrators, is absolutely the way to experience this untraditional structure. Asa Yoneda’s translation is superb, and I can only imagine how difficult it was to carry this book across languages. I have deliberately avoided plot details because this is a book where meaning needs to be earned through reading.

This was absolutely beautiful!!!

This book was so original and unique. I’ve always loved sci fi but I don’t think I’ve ever read a book like this one. Each chapter is an independent short story that gets you hooked without providing full explanations. Eventually, things start to come together. Such a unique idea about the future of humanity. So deep and beautiful too. Read this in two days because it was so good

Ignorance, prejudices, superstitions, obscurantism: all the shades of darkness… Even if there is nothing supernatural in Tyll the novel has a tangible Gothic aura and it is glumly satirical. “If you want to eat, perform. That’s how it is now. That’s how it will be until you kick the bucket. You belong to the traveling people, no one protects you, and when it rains, you have no roof. No home. No friends but others like you, who will not like you very much, because food is scarce. That is the price you pay to be free. Not to have to listen to anyone’s rules. The only rules are that you run when you have to run, and that when you’re hungry, you perform.” Artistes are freer than monarchs but they pay for their freedom dearly… …Tyll Ulenspiegel on the rope took another leap, striking his feet together in the air. He jumped so high that he had to spread his arms when he landed to find his balance – only very briefly, but it was enough to remind us that even he had weight and couldn’t fly. Balance is crucial. If there is no balance, there is war… If there is no balance, there is death… “These are better days. In the past you were all burned to death. That takes time, it’s not pleasant. But hanging is nothing. It happens quickly. You climb onto the scaffold and before you know it, you’re standing before the Creator. You’re incinerated afterward, but by then you’re dead, it doesn’t bother you at all, you’ll see.” It’s progress – all to the better, all for the best…

Tyll is so entertaining that I struggled at first to understand just how deep it is. I'm not sure what it says about contemporary literature, or about me, that I needed to consciously banish my cynical mistrust of any book that is so delightful to read. As I read the novel I thought of Falstaff, Shakespeare's comic-yet-deep repeating character. The character who most reminded me of Falstaff is played by a donkey, a character who appears in many scenes, sometimes for comic value and sometimes for something else entirely. And now that I've brought it up, I realize that I could write several paragraphs just about the donkey in this novel--how funny the donkey is in a given scene, and then how horrifically the donkey's fate plays out in another scene. Sometimes this donkey has a name, and its name is Origenes. And like so much in Tyll, Kehlmann invites me to think of the donkey's name as just a name, and to read on, or alternatively, to ponder what shimmering potentials are added to my reading if I take time to realize "Origenes" is also the name of an itinerant third-century Christian ascetic whose life and fate were caught up in religious disputes not unlike those raging in this novel. The donkey's story is threaded throughout this broken, nonlinear novel, and always brings with it some new wonder or terror or sadness or revelation, even though it's a minor character, like Falstaff. And the thing is, it's not just the donkey. Every character in the novel is a kind of itinerant bit player, and every one of them--the miller Claus, the Winter King, the expert in dragonology, the little girl named Martha, Tyll himself--has a marvelous and mysterious story to tell, when it's their time on stage. Kehlmann made them all real for me, sometimes in just a few sentences. References to Shakespeare plays appear throughout this novel with both historical and thematic resonances. A recurring side-theme is how literature was changing in this period of history that we now call "early-modern." The play Macbeth makes its way into a scene as a way to reference James I's rise to power, and Macbeth's last soliloquy is a good description of how this novel unfurls as you read it: Out, out, brief candle! Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player, That struts and frets his hour upon the stage, And then is heard no more. It is a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing. So here we are. Apparently my second stab at coming to grips with Tyll here on Goodreads is going to consist of a little bit of Shakespeare, a little bit of donkey. Okay. I should also add that I found a lot of Lutheran-like philosophy playing out in profound ways--over and over again the character Tyll projects a belief that suffering and uncertainty is worth enduring for the hope of living through it, and that evil is worth fighting, for the hope of the good to come. This philosophy is most starkly portrayed in the late chapter "In the Shaft." Well, I'm just gob-smacked by this novel. Read it.

Okay, this was everything!! Author obsession unlocked. With this and THE DIRECTOR, I'm at your mercy, Daniel K. *Will try to write a review soon. But yeah, this was truly unforgettable.*

4.5 rounded up Tyll begins in a town where "the war had not yet come" and where the people "prayed often" to keep it away. The townspeople stopped what they were doing at the arrival of Tyll Ulenspiegel, whom they recognized by his "pied jerkin ... battered hood and ... calfskin cloak." Ignoring the calls of their cows who needed milking, they watch as Tyll and his small retinue put on a play and entertain them with dance; Tyll sings a number of ballads and then walks a tightrope. As he "stood with his right foot lengthwise on the rope, his left crosswise, his knees slightly bent and his fists on his hips," the crowd looking up at him "understood what life could be like for someone who really did whatever he wanted, who believed in nothing and obeyed no one; we understood what it would like to be such a person, and we understood that we would never be such people." Ulenspiegel moves on, his coffers full of their coins, but not before leaving the people in a battle that began with shoes, and not before asking young Martha to join them, an offer she declines. But "a good year later," the war did arrive; the soldiers decimated the town, leaving behind only three survivors. As she hears the beams of the roof of her burning house "splintering," young Martha realizes (among other things) that "Tyll Ulenspiegel was now perhaps the only person who would remember our faces and would know that we had existed." Tyll represents a freedom that most regular people at this time do not have nor will ever obtain; rejecting his proscribed lot in life is something that began during his childhood after his father, the local miller and student of alchemy, magic, and herbs was arrested, tortured, and executed by Jesuits for witchcraft. When he and a young girl he's convinced to go with him join up with a traveling entertainer, he begins to hone not only his tightrope and singing skills, but also his ability to survive under the most adverse conditions. He is the Fool who is not a fool, carrying a bag of tricks which include among other things a talent for mockery and a fearlessness when speaking to power. From the start we are put directly into the midst of the Thirty Years War (1618-1648); the many stories that follow trace Tyll Ulenspiegel's life before and during this period. It was a war which, as one character notes, "has been going on so long that most people alive have never seen peace. That only the old can still remember peace." However, the author cleverly sidesteps presenting Tyll as a typical work of historical fiction by not following a straightforward, chronological narrative. He does not in any way ignore the horrors suffered by people during the war, but while he does this, he has also embedded the story of Tyll Ulenspiegel within these chapters, having him interact with various historical figures and others with whom he crosses paths, most all of whom are connected in some way. Since it is not your average plot-based narrative, you have to put some work into piecing things together, but it is well worth the time and effort. I was engaged immediately, often moving between laughing and trying to force down the lump in my throat, but always enthralled. Seriously recommended for very patient readers. I loved this book.

One of the literary awards that I religiously follow every year is the Man Booker Prize which is in my opinion the only literary prize that accumulates the best of the best literature that comes out every year. Literature that is not lazy but striking and timelessly beautiful. The New Wilderness by Diane Cook has been longlisted for The Man Booker Prize this year and when I tell you that this book is a force of a story I’m not lying to you. Set in the near future, this novel introduces readers to a haunting world that is not so hard to imagine. A world where breathing fresh air is a thing of the past unless you have been chosen to be apart of this new experiment that studies how humans interact with nature in the last bit of “Wilderness” left. Mostly following Bea who becomes involved with this experiment in order to save her daughter, Agnes, from the toxic pollution, the reader is immersed right from the first page into this Wilderness that is extraordinary but equally claustrophobic for those who are involved. What Cook has managed to do with this book is to give an examination of not only survival but this long lost relationship that humans have had with nature. I want to call this a sixth sense that is embedded in our human species. One can feel this through the way these characters interact within this new space. Their way of moving is different, their way of feeling is different, their way of thinking is different; it is a new language that feels strangely animalistic but so human. Where Cook excels at is with these astonishing passages that describe nature in the most beautiful way. One gets lost in this imagery which gives life to this story. Additionally, this book is incredibly researched by giving readers a look into a future that remembers humans in its early stages. It answers this question of, what was humanity like when all it knew was this sublime but dangerous wilderness? The New Wilderness by Diane Cook is a powerful work of fiction that I highly recommend. I wouldn’t be surprised if someone finished this 400-page book in one day because it is that intense and immersing. I completely loved everything about it and I was devastated that I finished so early. One of my favorite books of 2020 periodttttttt.

So, let me just say, up front, that I don’t read science fiction or speculative fiction – or much dystopian fiction … but you will find this book under those categories, when, in reality, it is just exceptional character-driven fiction (Booker Prize nominee). I do enjoy climate fiction, eco-fiction, and literary fiction, which was why I was drawn to this book. Incidentally, this novel paints a pretty realistic vision of the future relative to climate change. So, if you’re like me (or even if you’re not), and Sci-Fi/spec fiction aren’t your go-to genres, this novel is still SO worth a read. I was riveted from the first pages and continued to be mesmerized by the author’s ability to plunge the reader into the hearts of a mother and daughter with such intense emotion and realism. This is “show-don’t-tell” fiction at its absolute best, illustrating the struggles between a mom and daughter growing amid their circumstances while simultaneously growing apart. But, of course, it’s so much more than that, given the group dynamics and ensuing collisions of those in this ‘wilderness experiment.’ I’ve always been fascinated by group dynamics (and, if I’m honest, often irritated by group behaviors, in real life). Cook nails these aspects – highlighting those vying for leadership, those who are rule followers, those who aren’t, those who wish to let others pick up the slack… It was so well done; my guess is that this book will have many of you thinking back to your own work environments, group projects and interactions. Nature lovers will find much to admire, also, in the descriptions of the natural world and Agnes’s love for the wilderness. This book really begs the question "Can humans live WITH the environment and IN it, without destroying it?" It also poses questions about the 'animal' nature of humans. And the writing… it is breathtaking. From the geographic settings, and nomadic lifestyle details to the internalizations of characters: [Underwater swimming scene] Agnes wanted to grab all those bubbles and gobble them up so she could have it forever. She felt a mournful longing for her mother, as though she were far away, untouchable. The water made Bea look like she was behind a plate of glass. Agnes reached for her, but she was just far enough away that she couldn’t grab hold. The moon had moved and was now tipping its contents into the sky. The stars pouring from it. They passed into regions of low, strange mountains, a mix of jagged licking peaks and mellow, rolling red-capped hills. From far away, some hills stood like tiered wedding cakes. It was possibly a hundred trees tall or more. The valley was foggy and muted as though the morning sky had fallen to earth. The loamy dry lakebeds, playas, smelled of mushrooms, of dark body crevices. The hot horizon floated in front of their eyes like a river of gold. My only quibble is with the ending. And because I feel 99.9% sure the author was forced into this ending by the publisher, I couldn’t knock my rating down to four stars when I was absolutely enthralled throughout. This is a spectacular book about mother-daughter love, the impacts we, as humans, have made on the environment, and a meditation on leadership and survival. I’m definitely looking forward to what Cook writes in the future!

i massively loved Man V Nature so I was STOKED to read this book. and it didn't disappoint. I loved every minute of it. The motherhood of it. The wilderness struggle. The dirt, blood, sinew and sweat. The journey. The survival. Seems eerily prophetic. Go Agnes.

The New Wilderness shocked me in a deep way. It was far more introspective and reflective than I anticipated going into it. I never expected an adult Dystopian novel to be as hard hitting and inward looking. I think that this would be a fantastic book club pick, as it offers so many questions about the land, our government, and how people survive as communities. What does it mean to be a leader? Is it possible to survive without government, and how do we manage to make our own self governing rules? What are ethics, and what is right and wrong? How do our decisions for a group affect us as individuals, and how do they affect the land around us? How do our decisions for ourselves affect the group, and the land around us? It's hard to write a review for this one without demonstrating the kinds of questions that this book asks, because I feel that it was entirely the point of the novel. I think that this book has a lot to offer for a lot of different readers. There is a clear plot and narrative direction. There is a wide cast of characters with sweeping story arcs. It's adventurous and challenging, but also emotional and contemplative. The narrative has a clean enough ending, with still many questions to be answered and ideas to reflect upon. I loved this one for the same reasons I loved Station Eleven - for the questions it asked and the for the way it made me look at the world through a clearer lens.

I was completely enthralled by this book. The premise and world building was so interesting and terrifying in how it seems like a very possible path we could be heading down. I LOVED the opportunity to examine such a wealth of relationships between complex characters in an environment that exists almost outside of society. The way that the characters related to each other I felt was hugely impacted by their struggle to survive and inability to permanently settle and I felt like this gave a really honest sense of who they all were as people. It’s amazing how much the behaviour and relationships changed due to their circumstance. Bea and Agnes as the protagonists were incredibly well developed. I would have liked to have Beatrice’s voice reappear at the end of the novel but I can also understand why this would have not worked with the narrative. I definitely think more book clubs should pick this one up as there is so much to unpack from this novel!

Update : Now shortlisted for 2024 International Booker Prize - my only read so far from the list 4.5 - the winner of 2024 International Booker? Gold for fans of Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Elena Ferrante. Go blind into it. I see too many reviewers talk about themes that don't materialize until the last part of the novel.

What an outstanding novel and my first five star read of the International Booker 2024. This is about two sisters and when they’re young they find a knife that their grandmother has hidden beneath the bed. When something drastic happens with the knife it changes the life of the two sisters forever. It’s strange to have a book like this written by a man, but it really celebrates the matriarchy and female strength. The way the women in this come together to support and look after each other, and especially in the last section where it discusses the intersection between feminism and colonialism, and the taking of women’s work for someone else to benefit from, was unbelievably powerful. There were moments when I had to put the book down and just think about how amazing it was. This is set in one of the most impoverished neighbourhoods of Brazil and it explores both the dark side and good side of community. It is laced with violence and the horrors of misogyny but is ultimately a critique of toxic masculinity and its growing prevalence. I loved this book and think it was wonderfully written and crafted, with brilliant characters and an addictive prose. This is my favourite to win so far!

Crooked Plow, much like the land it takes place on, is slow, rich, and full of buried histories. It tells the story of lives shaped by labor, ancestry, and the unrelenting question of who owns the land beneath one’s feet. Vieira Junior captures the rural northeast of Brazil with both tenderness and fury, revealing how the weight of colonial history still urgently presses on the present. What makes the book remarkable is how seamlessly it weaves the material and the spiritual. The elements of magical realism feel like extensions of lived truth, showcasing faith, ancestry, and myth as coexisting conditions with the material realities of exploitation and survival. It’s not fantasy but another register of reality, one that recognizes spirit and memory in the land and in the body. It’s a deeply human, deeply political novel that understands how the struggle for dignity is also a struggle for land, voice, and belonging.

Now winner of the Warwick Prize for Women in Translation. Let the Celebrations begin. The jury felt the book’s Quality put it Streets ahead of the rest of the list. A 900 page history of a chocolate dynasty. I had heard Wispas about it but it really came to prominence with its International Booker longlisting. It was a Kinder surprise to me the book was so good and it definitely p-p-p-picks up the more you read. The large red book reminds me of a London Double Decker. Reading it is something of a Marathon, but there is a Bounty of great reading awaiting anyone that reads it. But its no Picnic and I would be Lion if I said it was an easy read, albeit the split into eight books was a Boost. I found I needed to Have a Break at intervals and Work, Rest and Play or my life was consumed with reading it. I also, to avoid disturbing my sleep, made it a rule to never read it After Eight. After finishing I felt I had joined a Club. Reading a few pages a day to my children was just enough to give my kids a treat. I felt I could read it between other books, without spoiling my appetite for fiction. If you are finding the vast cast list difficult to follow and the connections far from Eclair, Yorkie breakthrough may be to draw a family tree as even the small Fry’s in the family are important. At times though the author simply Revels in adding additional cast members. It is a book with multiple Heroes (or should that be - with more than one Aero) which does feel like a Fudge. At times this Bounty Mars the reader’s enjoyment. There is humour in the book – it’s not laugh out loud funny but it did raise some Snickers. The storyline is good although at times it is the crumbliest, flakiest plot I have read. There is lots of history told as narrative in the book. Some based on events the characters experienced, but some based on rumour or Hershey. Some of the narrative seems unjust - Niza is definitely not a Ferrero. But don’t skip this part, key plot details are Nestle’d among the well known history, even when you think the author is going off Topic. Some books are said to contain a world – this contains a Galaxy. Overall the book was much darker than I expected – almost like accidentally buying a Bournville. I have never previously read any books set in Georgia – but I have read many books from neighbouring countries. Some are Turkish. This was just a Delight. If like me you have not read it you are in for a Treet.

Update: I am so happy that it is included in the long-list of International Booker 2020. It seems the book is doing a simple thing, but somehow it is managing to do it in a magical captivating way without resorting to any tricks. Maybe sincerity is underpriced asset in modern fiction. ”When i was about the same age as you, Brilka, I often used to wonder what would happen if the world’s collective memory had retained different things and lost others? If we had forgotten all the wars and all those countless kings, rulers, leaders, and mercenaries, and people to be read about in books were those who had built a house with their own hands, planted a garden, discovered a giraffe, described a cloud, praised the nape of a woman’s neck. I wondered how we know that the people whose names have endured were better, cleverer, or more interesting just because they’ve stood test of time. What of those who are forgotten?” It has been a while since I’ve read a family saga. And it has been ages since I’ve read such a good one. It is the one of those books which is very tricky for me write about. I cannot quite put in words why I ended up loving this book so much. I am not a huge fan of the genre in general. There is a tradition of bold family sagas in Eastern Europe, Russia especially. I know quite a few written about the 20th century in the former Soviet Union. Lyudmila Ulitskaya does it very well. Also it has been done successfully in the recent English language books with the backdrop of China and Korea. The idea for this novel is deceptively simple - it is a story about several generations of a single family against the backdrop of historic events during the “red” century. However, there were two factors which raised my initial interest. Firstly, the main part of the book is set in Georgia. Quite often, the book with the plot based on the history of Soviet Union is written by a Russian writer. So perspective is from the centre towards the peripheries. The characters often do not have national identities unless their are Jews. Here it is different - it is the same events, but from the perspective rooted in Georgia. And I always was quite keen to read a novel about Georgia. Secondly, the author is quite young - she is a millennial living in Germany for a long time. So she could not witness the majority of things she was writing about. Though her narrator is 10 years older, almost exactly my age. And the fact that the writer lives in the Western Europe brings this slightly more detached point of view on the events combining both her western and eastern identity. I was curios to see how her generation internalised all this experience. The novel is originally written in German in 2014. The book is structured in the form of a very long letter from the aunt, Niza to her 12 year old niece. Niza, who is born in 1974, now lives in Berlin. Her niece, Brilka, whom she has not seen since the girl was a baby, has unexpectedly bursted into Niza’s life shaking her routines and piercing the bubble of her existence. Intentionally or not, Brilka asks her aunt the questions which Niza was trying to burry for a long time. Brilka wants to understand herself. And she prompts Niza to do the same. Consequently, this book is the result of her search. Reading this, i was constantly thinking how our life reminds a Russian doll; the history of the older generations are often packed inside our motivations, thoughts and actions without us even aware about it. How many things seems to be predetermined. Or are they? That is the question which Niza and the author is grappling with too, it seems. The novel is divided into 7 books-lives. Each book is devoted to a member of a Jachi’s family, mainly women. The family is founded at the beginning of the 20th century somewhere in a small town in Georgia by a confectioner who has had four daughters from two wives. The time frame between the individual books overlaps. I especially loved that the central character of each book is not simply dropped in the next one but still involved throughout the whole novel. It all starts with Stasia, born with the century, dreamy, extremely brave and devoted woman, who follows twice her loved ones plunging into the calamities of the revolution and later the second world war. Then there is Christine, her younger sister of exceptional beauty who becomes its victim. Then - Kostya and Kitty - the children of Stasia. Their fates could not have been more different from each other. He becomes a successful functionary, she has to flee to the West and never able to come back home. Niza is the last in the chain growing up in Georgia through the cynical eighties followed by wild 90s. But when i write all of this it sounds very plane, it sounds like something which has been done already a million times: revolution, purges, world war 2, the 60s, Prague spring, the collapse of the Soviet Union. I seem not to be able to show what unique about this novel. And to be honest, while reading the first book I thought it would end up like a saga of broken dreams due to the historic calamities. But trust me, it is much deeper than that. It grabbed me from the second book onwards and there is something special about it. Maybe, it is its sincerity; maybe, it is the way how the author creates these characters, how psychologically complex, multidimensional they are and how they always balance between giving in to the “Fate” and still being free to make their own choices. This is the fiction which tells the truth somehow. Inevitably, there is a lot of cruel drama in this book: murders, rapes, wars, betrayals. Some scenes felt slightly overdramatised, a bit theatrical. Later I learned that the author is a successful play writer. But there were not single time when I felt the story overstretched. All the unthinkable things she describes could happen and were everyday experience at that era. Georgia of course is a birth place of Stalin. And his shadow is hovering over the book. But the one of his henchman, Lavrentiy Beria is much more omnipresent in the plot. Stalin called him “our Himmler”. He was as nasty piece of work as they go. But in the novel, though existing only in the margins he is far from a cartoonish villain, more like a hand of destiny. Interestingly, the author chooses not to name them in the novel almost until the last few pages. Beria is known as a “Little Big Man” through the novel. Unexpectedly, I’ve learned some new history as well. I want to mention here two events. I did not know that over 5 mln Soviet citizens were forcibly repatriated from abroad after the World War II. It has been conducted by NKVD (Russian secret service) and called ‘operation SMERSH” (abbreviation to “death to spies" in Russian). Only half of them have reached home. I did not also know about the one of the last of war actions in the same war - Georgian uprising at Texel island in Netherlands which lasted from April 5 to May 20, 1945. The Georgians, many of them exRed army soldiers captured by the Germans and made to fight on their side, have mutinied against the Nazi leadership and killed around 400 German military personal, many of them in their sleep. In one of those weird parallels coincidences, it reminded me another book I’ve read recently. In the novel Insurrecto set in the Philippines, there is an episode when the locals are attacking the American troops stationed at their land in the middle of the night. Anyway, slowly but surely, this novel has totally won me over. Her language is quiet simple, but penetratingly sincere. The book is driven by the dialogue which is snappy, sharp and bare of feelings. And maybe it is just me, but I found the book and some episodes in particular almost heartbreakingly moving. Of course, the last part about Niza was very relatable in my case. The author was writing from the perspective of a girl of almost exactly my age. When she was writing about the late 80s and early 90s, I had to stop reading quiet a few times as i felt almost physically overwhelmed by the flood of my own long forgotten memories about that time. It was crazy time, it was dangerous time, but we lived through it as it was totally normal. And we had hopes and freedom for the first time. Now, about the chocolate and the magic realism. I’ve read that some people identified a trace of magic realism in the novel. I am not one of them. As i mentioned earlier, the main theme of the book is the role of Fate in a life of an individual; the question, to which extent our origins define our life. And there is a powerful metaphor for this in a book. There is a secret family recipe of a hot chocolate which is carefully (or sometimes less so) passed from generation to generation. Added to other products, it brings only good things. But there is a belief that whoever drinks it pure will face a calamity. Many family members did have a drink. Is it the drink to blame for what happened later? Ive seen somewhere this novel is compared One Hundred Years of Solitude. Especially, that the novel covers around 100 years as well. But for me, they would be off the mark. If I would compare it to some other book, it would be The Neapolitan Novels. The similarities I found is this "matter of a fact prose", honesty and psychological depth. But again, it would be a mistake to take this comparison too far. It is the longest, but the most engrossing and the most moving novel I’ve read this year. And, I think it deserves to be widely read. Update: It has got a great review in the Guardian: https://www.theguardian.com/books/201... I really hope more people will read it. PS I struggled to rate it. It feels too personal as it hits so close to home for me. So there is at least one star for making me forget my present and sink into my past. The article about SMERCH http://www.historyworkshop.org.uk/non... The WIKI about Texel uprising https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgia...

I cannot put into words how much I loved this book. It has been a very long time since I have felt so totally immersed in a story and its characters (to the extent that I even dreamed about them). It is a wonderful story, beautifully written/translated and I highly, highly recommend it.

74 years ago from today, deep amidst the chaos of india - pakistan partition, my grandfather decided on a whim to travel to india a day later, missing his scheduled train. having safely sent my grandmother there with his parents a day earlier, he felt a bit at ease delaying the journey. the story would have ended here, had the train he missed not fallen victim to the religious attacks that were prevalent in those times. every single person on that missed train was killed. my grandparents have narrated me their experiences of the partition atrocities many times, but whenever i heard this particlular incident - i felt a more urgent, desperate version of fear. how much of my existence is purely based on just a mere luck, a chance, an accident result of someone else's choices. reading nino haratischvili's writing felt like i experienced a part of life of all my ancestors. their constant power struggle to not be defined by history, yet it continues to shape generations after them. the first part of the book is where they make the choices, where stasia defies her parents and travels to st. petersburg, where kostya decides to follow his father into the navy, where kitty sneaks out of hotel to find her mother - only to have a pciture of her singing being taken, spread and used as an act of defiance against the communist totalitarianism. where my grandfather misses his train. the second part is where the generations bear the weight of those very choices, where there is more introspective struggle, a search for a lost identity, where elene makes mistake after mistake in the hope that she will be able to hurt other as much as is hurting, where niza feels powerless carrying her past, unable to go back to her homeland. where i find myself afraid of the power of my own choices. as much as we are defined by our past, we still carry an immense power to write and rewrite our story and as long as each one of has a brilka to save, a future to salvage - we will find courage to break free from the mistakes of our parents and grandparents that we have been habouring inside.

It is still unbelievable for me that I finished reading/listening to The Eighth Life. How can I? Do you ever stop living until your last breath? No, right? Then how can I live when my life, so beautifully entwined with this book, is now to be lived without it? I did not want it to end. It is an epic, a saga of human lives, of human emotions, it is more than a historical narrative; in fact, it is history in itself. How I wish I can go back to reading this book anew!

(I was influenced by Puty Puar about how great this book is, but probably too late to read this one 😄) In this book, Schalansky contains style and details, then assembles them into a story—based on in-depth research, exploring space, crossing boundaries between reality and imagination, between reality and myth, and fact and fiction. Judith Schalansky, through her writings, considered as capable of bringing human to awareness of space and time with all its events. A very deep book, make us contemplate the meaning of a loss and bring imagination on timeline of life.

All the Little Bird-Hearts by Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow is a Blend of Family and Literary Fiction! Sunday Forrester lives in the same house she grew up in. She finds comfort in order and routine, eating light-colored food, caring for things that grow, sharing her love of Italian folklore, and being in the presence of her sixteen-year-old daughter, Dolly. When a posh London couple, Vita and Rollo, moves into the neighborhood, unexpected friendships develop and Sunday feels what it's like to be accepted and loved. It feels special until she realizes there may be something darker brewing behind the masks of the couple living next door... All the Little Bird Hearts is a beautifully written first-person narrative of an autistic mother, Sunday, relaying to the reader the trauma from her past, and her perspective on the present. It's heartbreaking to hear her views and yet there is such clarity in her thoughts it feels comforting listening to her words. The best part of this book is getting to know Sunday, who is a remarkable and memorable character. She relies, often lightheartedly, on the social etiquette book that keeps her within the lines drawn by others when she senses herself straying too close to the edges. She seems to possess an innate ability to flourish and is voraciously introspective. Her resilience and her observations are the high points in the story. She is a character I would love to meet. This was an immersion reading experience through the gifted Digital Reading Copy and Advanced Listening Copy. The audiobook may be the best listening experience I've had this year with the voice of the narrator, Rose Akroyd, flowing smoothly and easily. It was a perfect pairing for this soft yet stirring listen. All the Little Bird Hearts, Longlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize, is a quiet and moving debut novel. I will remember Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow's beautiful prose, self-reflective storytelling, and a point-of-view I appreciate learning more about. I look forward to what this author writes next and I highly recommend this book with the audiobook as the best format for gaining the full essence of the main character, Sunday Forrester! 5⭐ Thank you to NetGalley, Algonquin Books, and Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow for a DRC and ALC of this book. It has been an honor to give my honest and voluntary review.

Elaine Feeney’s How to Build a Boat prompted a lot of discussion in my DMs over the writing of neurodivergent characters and it prompted me to turn to this Booker-longlisted novel next. All the Little Bird-Hearts is a debut novel by an autistic author who left school with no qualifications and went on to attain a PhD in Creative Writing. The book began life as her PhD submission but was published as a novel earlier this year by @tinder_press (I hadn’t heard of it until its longlisting). It tells the story of Sunday Forrester, a neurodivergent, divorced woman living with her teenage daughter Dolly in a small English town. Sunday strikes up a friendship with new neighbours Vita and Rollo, a sophisticated about-town couple, who disarm her and Dolly with their charm and challenge Sunday’s thinking on social norms, the guidance for which she gets mostly from two books, one on etiquette and another on Sicilian proverbs. As the friendship intensifies and with it Sunday’s discomfort, the story gradually unspools. The reader is perhaps a step or two ahead of Sunday as she realises all is not as it seems. Possessing a deep love for Dolly, Sunday attempts to navigate tricky social situations when she is suddenly, and heartbreakingly, blindsided. A beautifully crafted story written deftly and in unadorned prose, the book felt a little like a parable to me. Sunday’s isolation because of her “strangeness” as she describes it, juxtaposed with Vita’s crafty masking of her own clearly deep-seated issues, makes for a compelling tale that had me holding my breath and feeling deeply for Sunday. It forces the reader to examine their own prejudices - we all have our foibles, and our little bird-hearts; society is structured in such a way that equips some of us to better hide and protect them. A little masterpiece full of precise observations that I would love to see on the shortlist. Highly recommended. I listened on audio (excellent narration and well worth an Audible credit) and will be buying a copy for my own shelf. 5/5⭐️

This story is necessarily slow, and immensely powerful. It will not speed up, or make things happen because you want them to, or reveal itself before it’s time. Be patient and remember how it feels to lose yourself in a really good book. This one’s a keeper.

“I lived for and loved a bird-heart that summer, I only knew it afterwards.” An enthralling and beautifully crafted debut, this book stole my heart. Filled with joy, anguish, judgement, honesty, and love, this is a story about being an outsider, and about overcoming the difficulties life throws at us. Lyrical and poetic, it is so exquisitely written that I lost myself in the prose and could have highlighted every word. Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow is a phenomenal new talent and definitely one to watch. I still can’t believe this is a debut novel and am very excited to see what she writes next. “I still believed, then, that my way of not seeing only made me strange and unpopular; I did not know, then, that it blinded me to all the fires that were not in the fields.” And while the writing is a huge part of the beauty of this book, what makes it extraordinary for me is the protagonist, Sunday Forrester. Sunday is the outsider. The oddity. The one who is always misunderstood. But inside she is kind, loving, genuine and funny; the sort of person we should aspire to be. Sunday also has autism. And she takes centre stage in the book, telling her own story in the first person; her acerbic, eye-opening and witty observations permeating the narrative. This puts the reader inside her head, offering us a unique insight into how it feels to see the world differently and giving us the chance to experience what it’s like to navigate a world you don’t really understand. I laughed with her, cried with her, felt her joy, and felt her pain. She has taught me so much about humanity and acceptance and is now one of my favourite protagonists. “I do not expect to know another Vita. She was a person-shaped precious stone, something mined and brought up to the surface to live among the pebbles, a shiny reminder of our comparative dullness. Where I am pale and insubstantial, Vita was dark and deliberately formed, as real as a piece of marble.” The other characters were also brilliantly written. I loved watching the friendship between Sunday and Vita grow, how Vita opened Sunday up to things she had never experienced, and how she was the yin to her yang. We know from the start that something went wrong between them and a sense of darkness and foreboding hovers over the pages. Yet I couldn’t quite decide how things would play out and was kept guessing right up until the end, creating a tension you can’t escape. "I existed already in a form of maternal grieving, a refusal to accept that I had somehow lost my greatest love while still living alongside her." I also enjoyed how the author explores the complexities of the mother/daughter relationship throughout the book through many of the characters. But it is most evident in the relationships between Sunday and her mother, and Sunday and her daughter, Dolly. Sunday’s love for Dolly is all-consuming. She doesn’t understand her, but loves her fiercely and is incredibly proud of her headstrong only child. At 16, Dolly is full of teenage disdain for her mother and Sunday is left trying to navigate this new dynamic to their relationship. As a mother of two teenagers, I could relate to this, as well as to the pain Sunday felt at having lost her child in some way already, even though she was still there. But Sunday isn’t a good mother by example. Sadly her own mother never shows her any love and is often cruel and dismissive. She sees her as strange and wrong because of her autism. Sunday’s pain at this rejection leaped from the pages in heartbreaking clarity, as did her determination to ensure Dolly never feels the same rejection and pain she did. This made me love her character all the more. "I do not envy other people's ability to adapt; I find it alarming. Their minds are like caught fish, shining and struggling and engaged in a perpetual and pointless circular motion. Those like me swim on, unaffected by the change in currents around them.” Illuminating, magnificent, heartbreaking and hopeful, All The Little Bird-Hearts is an unforgettable debut. It will stay with me for a long time and I cherish the new understanding it has given me. I can’t recommend it highly enough.

Sunday lives a simple, quiet life with her 16-year-old daughter in her small cottage in England’s Lake District. She is content with her gardening duties at her ex-in-law’s plant nursery Her daughter Dolly is beginning to distance herself from her mother spending more time with friends away from home embarrassed by her mother’s odd behaviors. Sunday shuns colors, eating only white food and wearing only clothes lying within the greyscale. When others speak, she often parrots the syllables silently in her mind. Awkward in social situations, she frequently consults an old etiquette handbook for advice. Things change when a new couple move in next door, Rollo and Vita. Vita, who is appropriately named, is everything that Sunday is not; she is loud, gregarious, and adventurous. She quickly invites herself over and insinuates herself in Sunday’s lives. Contrary to what one would believe, Sunday is drawn to Vita’s behaviors and the two quickly become friends. Dolly, too, is drawn to the new couple’s lifestyle. The novel is essentially a character study. The reader is invited into Sunday’s thoughts, feelings, and memories since she is the novel’s narrator. Sunday would be diagnosed with an Autistic Spectrum Disorder. The realistic portrayal is probably because the author also possesses an ASD diagnosis. Themes include coming-of-age, friendships, and mother-daughter relationships. If the reader is seeking a thrilling action book, this isn’t one. However, I enjoyed it for its richness and subtleness in its writing.

Poor Sunday! Unloved by her mother, blamed for her sister’s death and then rejected by her husband, whom she refers to as the King, none of them understood her or why she behaves the way she does. Except maybe David at the farm, where she works. David is deaf and Sunday signs with him. He is probably my second favourite character, after Sunday. As for her new next-door neighbours, Vita and her husband Rollo, they made my skin crawl from day one. Vita with her pretensions, her affectations and an accent so posh it’s ‘almost a speech impediment’, as someone once joked to me. I hope that’s not too un-PC. But Sunday is entranced by their charm, as is her sixteen-year-old daughter Dolly. Vita calls Sunday ‘Wife’ – no idea why – Rollo is Rols and Dolly is Doll. It’s like those people who refer to rugby as rugger, ‘Oh did you play rugger when you were up at Oxford, what.’ I’m not even sure how to use it in a sentence. Vita arrives one day on Sunday’s doorstep, invites herself in and breaks every rule in Sunday’s etiquette handbook. Sometimes Vita turns up in an evening gown, at other times she’s wearing Rollo’s pyjamas with no underwear. She brings her little dog called Beast, smokes incessantly and assumes everyone adores her. Well I didn’t. Sunday and Dolly are invited to Vita and Rollo’s Friday night dinner every week, where they drink copious amounts of Champagne (Sunday will only drink fizzy drinks), red wine and port. The menu includes hare (I remember my father cooking jugged hare and it smelled disgusting) and steak Tartare (in other words raw mince). My dad ate the latter as well. I’m too squeamish, I’m afraid, to eat anything so ‘adventurous’, if that’s what you call it. Dolly is becoming increasingly frustrated with her mum, who has days where she only eats white food, and loves how Vita and Rollo have no such ‘issues’. Sunday has autism (about which I know very little), but neither her mother nor husband understood, just considered her outspoken, annoying and difficult. To Dolly she is just boring, while to Vita, Sunday is simply a means to an end. I loved All The Little Bird-Hearts. It’s like poetry. The language is beautiful and lyrical and the author’s understanding of Sunday’s autism is both personal and sympathetic. But then Viktoria is also autistic and can write from her own extensive experience. Of course, nowadays, it’s easy to criticise the lack of understanding of autism and neurodivergence, when information is out there for everyone to investigate. Thirty-plus years ago, it was misunderstood and someone like Sunday was considered too different and often inappropriate in her behaviour. Many thanks to @annecater for inviting me to be part of #RandomThingsTours

"If loud noise and artificial light do not pain you, you cannot know the sublime relief of silence, of dullness. I intimately know both states; I have learned to live through the chaos and wait for the reward of stillness, knowing it will eventually come for me" Sunday Forrester, an autistic divorcee, lives with her 16-year-old daughter, Dolly, in a house that she inherited from her parents (we then learned that Sunday also had a sister, Dolores, who drowned when she was young and Sunday's mother blamed her for Dolores's death). Sunday has a fixed routine: She eats only white food, drinks only cold and fizzy drinks, is obsessed with Sicilian folklore and proverbs, and uses the Etiquette Guide for Ladies written in 1959 by Edith Ogilvy to guide her through confusing social situations. Despite this, she is willing to "work harder on the illusion of normalcy" for the love of Dolly, who seems to distance herself from Sunday and increasingly resent her fixed routine. When charming and eccentric Vita moved in next door together with her husband Rollo, a special friendship developed between Vita and Sunday. Vita is the opposite of Sunday: Vita is confident, a social butterfly, and unconventional. When Vita starts to befriend Dolly, Sunday notices that Vita's presence is slowly invading and changing her life, especially her relationship with Dolly. When Dolly decides to leave Sunday and move in with Vita in London, can Sunday rescue her relationship with Dolly by observing the usual social conventions, or adhering to the rules in her etiquette guide? As the author, Viktoria Lloyd-Barlow, is also autistic, she managed to beautifully construct a character who observes, and occasionally criticizes, social norms and conventions from a neurodivergent perspective. From Sunday's point of view, readers are able to understand the world and behavior of a person who suffers from autism. Sunday's critique of what we deem as "normalcy" and a performative societal convention/manipulation, often from her observations of Vita's eccentric behavior, is brilliant: "In a painting, the artist intends all the uncomfortable truth he has put there, somewhere within the beautiful image, to be read. In life, the opposite is more often true"; "I had not considered, before meeting Vita, that acquaintances could be more beneficial than injurious. I had not properly understood, then, that people could be played like instruments to produce whatever sound you demanded of them"; "At Vita's house, too, there were tricks. But they were not exposed over tantrums thrown at the table; they were played as a long game and could only be recognised some time afterwards"; "I would rather be a tiny person who wonders and trembles at their surroundings than rule over everything, manipulate it to my preference, and in doing so, come to despise it"; "I am unlike Vita and Rollo, unlike the Forresters, who believe love is a performance and something to be sold to an audience". The theme of motherhood flourished in Sunday's relationship and dynamics with Dolly, as well as Sunday's strained relationship with her mother, which somehow scarred her. She often considers herself "an unloved child" because of her peculiarities. As Dolores was deemed to be more "normal" than Sunday, Sunday's mother favored Dolores, and Dolores's death unleashed her cruel attitude toward Sunday: "Ever since her death, I have consoled myself with the thought that wanting your mother to find something worthwhile in you was probably the most normal condition I would ever find myself in"; "I had been a witness, at least, to her maternal love". Interestingly, the theme of motherhood somehow developed from Vita's relationship with Dolly, where it is implied that Dolly is a daughter that Vita never had and her ulterior motive in befriending Sunday, is to have Dolly all to herself. The recognition of this debut novel by the Booker Prize is commendable as I daresay that the writing here is impressive and the story definitely stuck on my mind for quite some time. All the Little Bird-Hearts is a dark, devastating, and distinctive examination of motherhood, love, and the standards of "normalcy" from an underrepresented voice. A strong 4.8/5 star rating!

Most of us have our vulnerabilities, those things we love that make us fragile. But not those two. It is not a security I envy. All The Little Bird-Hearts was a pleasant heart warming read. The audiobook was really good and narration was spot on. The voice change for characters was good but I found at places that few characters sounded exactly the same and I had to listen very hard to understand who was actually speaking. Apart from this issue which bothered me towards end of the book more, everything else was really good. All The Little Bird-Hearts tells us a story of an autistic single mother Sunday who is well immersed in her daughter's life, her whole life actually surrounds around her daughter. She has got no luck in finding love at any place. It had been an assault of some years rather than a few moments, and the assailants were people I loved. Because of being autistic she is always misunderstood and is looked down upon for being "not normal". Her own parents did not like her. Her spouse and his parents could never understand her. But the worst part I felt was how her daughter treated her. I realise, now, that my mother could still have loved me, if she had chosen to. It is possible to know the oddities of people and to love them regardless. I want this to comfort me, but it does not. I had always thought that I was an unloved child purely because of my peculiarities. Normally we have read many books about struggles of an autistic child and his parents who are learning how to raise an autistic child. This book felt different because a neurodivergent is trying to raise a neurotypical kid. It took me back to an embarrassed parent elbowing the back of my school blazer as I silently organised perfect sentences in my head but struggled to bring them to the surface, like a deft swimmer trapped underwater. Enters Vita who is charming and beautiful. Vita is staying next door and even though it is not in the nature of Sunday to make friends fast, Vita and she strike a bond superfast. They become good friends. Sunday is actually mesmerized by Vita's charms and modernness. Where I am pale and insubstantial, Vita was dark and deliberately formed, as real as a piece of marble. And as cold under your hand. I am a stutter of a person, a glitch that flickers; I am the air blurred by the summer sun. But is Vita a really good sunday can ask for? Many might find it a simple story and it is a simple story but in my opinion, a very well written one with a powerful lesson. I loved the writing style very much and I found myself immersed in world of Vita and Sunday. It kept me engaged till the end. Thanks Netgalley and Hachette audio for this wonderful audiobook ARC in exchange of an honest review. Quotes that are worth mentioning : There is a cost, Mother, always a cost to such transgressions, and I am the one who pays. I am the one whose throat and body burn when I politely swallow down food of the wrong colour; it is my arm that itches when a neighbour greets me by lightly placing a hand on my skin. I wear the marks of these encounters, these painful sensory interruptions. I listen to dialogue intently; since childhood, this practice has protected me from eyes that are always seeking mine in greetings or conversation. Facial expressions typically tell me nothing more than what is being said. The manner of speaking – the tone, the points of hesitation, the emphases – these are what talk to me. What would it be to live without the laborious work of translation, to hear and instantly know what you have heard? I would have survived as a Sicilian wife, for I can follow rules as clear as these. But I was married to an English King, and so the wolf consumed me on my own doorstep. I had not known that protectiveness could be both furious and tender. That a first sighting could feel as familiar as a reunion. Possession is a form of love, after all. The warm weight of my daughter in my arms was all I had ever wanted, before I even knew I was wanting. Before Dolly, I had thought myself to be missing the basic components that would make me human. Her little body made me real and not only paper, like my own family; just as I had made her, she fleshed me out. The lack of visible social effort on my part was what she always criticised me for most harshly. I believed, even then, that if I could only convince her of my constant attempts at normalcy, she would forgive my resultant failure. She thought my difference was a deliberate pose; thought my remoteness was something I was consciously doing to her. As if, deep down, I had always known all the secrets of communication, just as my sister had, but I had wilfully turned away from that knowledge. ‘I try. I have always tried.’ In fact, I learned, all the questions could be satisfied only by my regular admissions of guilt. And of course, I knew Dolores’ death was my fault, had always known it, but it pained me to say out loud what I carried with a silent reverence. And it was not the condemnation of me that was painful, for I already knew this pronouncement of her feelings to be sincere; it was the public announcement and the flippancy in her voice that finished me. Ever since her death, I have consoled myself with the thought that wanting your mother to find something worthwhile in you was probably the most normal condition I would ever find myself in. It is not always possible to recognise an experience as the final of its kind – such things are often known only in retrospect – but I am grateful for what I did not know as I stood and shivered on the shore that evening. The secret was that an ending was approaching my family. We walked home afterwards in a silence that I did not question. I could not see, as we walked together in the darkness, that my sister was still submerged; was, in fact, a dead girl walking. I did not know, then, that she would struggle all night with an invisible and watery enemy; that she was being kept somewhere below the surface and unable to summon help. I still believed, then, that my way of not seeing only made me strange and unpopular; I did not know that it blinded me to all the fires that were not in the fields. Since Vita and Rollo and their cheerful celebration of my strangeness, I wonder if there was something else Ma witnessed in me, something that she found not simply different, but abhorrent. But, like Dolly and Rollo, she did not have to sacrifice very much of herself to be lovable, and this perhaps spoiled them for others. Should great love be attained without effort? I do not believe that anything so easily won can be prized at all. I am unlike Vita and Rollo, unlike the Forresters, who believe love is a performance and something to be sold to an audience.

this is one of the best written, most real feeling characters I've ever encountered. it's in the first person and we very quickly learn what it's like to be her. (the character and the author are both on the spectrum). the story is quite good too but you'll be spending it in Sunday's head or watching events through her eyes.

An unusual book that has split opinion amongst readers. I found it an extraordinary debut, not perfect perhaps, but honest and distinctive. Beautiful sentences and a bewitching use of repetitiveness.

I have waited for Enlightenment with great anticipation, because of my great love for Sarah Perry’s The Essex Serpent. I have also been aware that I might be disappointed in Enlightenment, because of my great love for The Essex Serpent. Could the new one possibly meet my high expectations? I needn’t have worried. If anything, it’s better, and I didn’t think that could happen. But Perry’s talent is a rare and astonishing thing. I am in awe. I may or may not say more later, depending on my tolerance for my own incapacity to do justice to a work such as this. In the meantime, I need a while to catch my breath, which has been momentarily knocked out of me by this amazing and gorgeous book.

I really adored this book. The characters are complicated and unusual and I really grappled with my curiosity about them and how they struggled to find their place in society. At the centre of this story there is a mystery about a woman from the past. She is also unconventional and disappeared in unknown circumstances, little was known about her. Ultimately this is a story about one sided relationships. What it’s like to give yourself to someone and not have your feelings reciprocated. This is gentle, beautiful and I loved the writing. The beauty of the night sky creates a sweeping and majestic backdrop as Thomas unravels some of its mysteries. Like the characters it is unknowable but nevertheless fascinating.

This book marks a departure for Sarah Perry and a progression. She returns again to her main preoccupations-- science, religion, faith and the inherent tensions therein. She also returns to Essex, land of her heart and the setting for the fictional village in the Essex Serpent (Aldwinter has a stunning cameo). It is, as ever, ‘a place of dissent’ . The central character is Thomas Hart: 'A man of fifty and a man of Essex; tall and retaining as much hair as he had at forty. An air altogether of occupying a time not his own.' He is a newspaper columnist who charts his growing obsession with astronomy for his readers. He becomes 'a citizen of the empire of the moon'. A mysterious comet commands his attention and sends him on a ghost hunt into the past which plots a collision in the present. Thomas is gay and a baptist, his life balanced between these twin poles of his self. His sexuality, and his sex life, are handled with great sensitivty and some delightful hotness. This is also also a book about writing. Thomas says: 'It was the purpose of his life, it was the bane of it.' As Thomas says later on in the book: ‘A block to writing is a block to living’. Tell me about it! Perry never tries to settle the question of the tensions between science and religion--rather she opens them up, unsettling the certainties of both, pushing us away from black and white into the grey, where meaning lives. One character asks 'Isn't it more amazing to have faith against your better judgement?’ This was longlisted for the Booker and should have gone further. Enligtening, I say, with no apology for the pun. I interviewed Sarah Perry for my BBC TV show The Big Scottish Book CLub and you can watch it on BBC iPlayer.

Maybe too long and slightly preachy in places but I’d shed quite a few tears by the end. This book is a truly wonderful experience.

I almost gave up on this. The writing initially was hard for me to get into. A little high-brow which required from me a bigger mental investment. But I finished this book and I am SO SO SOOOO glad because this is a MASTERPIECE. Physics, astronomy, mystery, friendship, faith, love, loss, mortality, and ghosts. Sounds like it could end up a mess but it was _beautifully_ executed.

Perry's stunning, multi-layered novel, returns to the Essex countryside. Woven across three decades the narrative centers on three distinct characters. From 1997 to 2007 t0 2017 we follow Thomas Hart, writer and columnist who lives two lives, one in London in the company of other men and one in the company of God in the small town of Aldleigh. He is a man “with an air of altogether occupying a time not his own ''. His godchild, Grace Macaulay, 20 years younger is bonded to Thomas through their Bethesda Parish and is a strange eccentric creature also somewhat misplaced in the world. Then there is Maria Vaduva, a female astronomer in the 1800’s known as the Lowland Ghost whom Thomas becomes obsessively drawn to. Perry’s shimmering prose draws readers gradually into the story, when suddenly we are captivated by the rich, psychologically complex and intimate characters who grapple philosophically with issues of faith, religion, science, astronomy and love in all its guises. Part of the joy in reading Enlightenment is Perry's masterful pacing and how she slowly reveals the story. Most impressive is her command of language and extensive knowledge of astronomy and physics that she nimbly incorporates into the narrative. With brilliant storytelling, Perry's novel of dichotomies, portrays how elliptical our lives truly are; very much like the movement of the stars.

One of the most beautiful books I’ve read in my life

Everyone who hates this book is my enemy.

Elliptical, strange and alluring 4.5 rating, raised Perry’s writing is rich and textured, and even though this one in set ‘in modern times’ – three timescales, across 20 years, 1997, 2008 and 2017, her language, sentence construction and characters all seem to belong to a time 100 years earlier. And there are many reasons for this. One of the themes here is time itself, and our perception of it. IS time linear, or do ‘times’ coincide and happen together – memory itself plays our past as we experience our present. The central character in this is a local Essex journalist, Thomas Hart, a courtly, rather old fashioned man, one who could have stepped straight out of a Victorian novel. His writings about the subject matters which interest him – astronomy and the recurrence of comets in particular, whose movement is elliptical – are of a somewhat old fashioned depth and complexity. Hart has been raised in a rather old fashioned Baptist community. Perry herself had a similar background. The community eschew modern culture, particularly television, so the prime cultural influence IS Biblical, and the rich language and imagery from that tradition. Taking us further into the past is a mystery around a vanished Romanian woman from the 1880’s Maria Veduva, some of whose papers Hart discovers, and spends his life investigating. Veduva herself features as perhaps a kind of ghost, stalking the imagination of several of the central characters. Readers of The Essex Serpent may find a frisson towards the end as the central character of THAT book makes an appearance in this. Hart, some 16 or 17 years before this story begins, falls in love in an instant with Grace Macaulay. Grace is a tiny baby, daughter of the Baptist chapel’s preacher. Her mother has died. Grace, a teenager when we first meet her, is a peculiar and eccentric girl, old fashioned and direct. The love between Thomas and Grace is in no way sexual. Another major theme is love itself, and its extraordinary guises, how love is found, lost, found and lost, over and again. Including love of, for and from, the Divine. I didn’t always rationally understand everything within these pages, but this seemed, also, to be of a piece with its astronomical themes – sometimes cloud covers the face of the moon, and indeed the stars, at other times the clouds part, and the heaven’s stars can be clearly seen, before those moments of enlightenment are veiled again

Perry’s beautiful writing was made more brilliant by the accomplished narrator over 14 hours in the audio version. It’s interesting that another of my favourite books is Shirley Hazzards “The Transit of Venus”Both have the magical silver thread of astronomy linking the relationships over time in the vast cosmos. Unusually for me, religion did not detract from story of the different flawed individuals but gave them context in their struggles. Thoroughly enjoyable. It will be interesting to see how I feel about it once the book is released in a smaller format and I re read it.

I am delighted that this is my first book of 2025. It is a mesmerizing novel, written with deep sensitivity and limitless imagination. I appear to have an instinctive attraction to books about curmudgeons -- this may not (ahem) come as a surprise to those who know me. However, the curmudgeon at the center of this novel, Thomas Hart, has all the qualities I admire in creative loners. He's solitary without being lonely, bookish without being haughty, and deeply religious without even a hint of arrogant certainty. But Thomas's life is split in twain, between the deeply conservative, Calvinistic Baptist congregation he attends and a secret life his fellow Baptists would consider deeply sinful. The great joys of his existence are his career as a novelist and regular contributor to his local newspaper, his deepening fascination with astronomy, and his devoted love for young Grace Macaulay. Having lost her mother at the very outset of her life, Grace is raised by her strictly devout and distant father and a maiden aunt forced to relinquish her dreams to care for a motherless infant. Thomas provides Grace with fatherly love and offers her hints of the wider world outside her closed community, but he is unprepared for the eccentric and passionate young woman she becomes. These relationships, which Perry describes in astronomical terms as "orbits", are conflicted, unpredictable, and at times even catastrophic, but the novel is driven by a mystery. Who is the woman who had once lived in Lowlands House, an abandoned but historic home locals believe is haunted? As more and more clues emerge, literally out of the decaying walls of the building, Thomas is drawn into the life of a 19th century, female astronomer whose plaintive letters hint at her own deep struggles over love and personal meaning. The letters, which strangely echo the forces that alternately enrich and blight the life of Thomas Hart, conjure their writer into a living presence that haunts Hart's life and forces him to see the mystery to its conclusion. There is a great deal to say about this book. Its ability to merge the big questions of religion and science is exemplary, and its refusal to offer neat and reassuring answers to such questions is refreshing. There is a plot to this novel, but rather than tell a straightforward narrative, Perry allows her story to flow through the inner lives of Hart, Macaulay, and other key characters. A native of County Essex, England Perry roots her prose in a geographical and cultural setting she both loves and knows intimately. This was a joy to read.

I’m still pinching myself that I just read a new book by Sarah Perry. Perry consistently writes of nature, astrology, and faith with more understanding, query, and compassion than any other author I’ve read. Any reader of her books can’t help but face these subjects with the wonder and respect that they’re rightfully owed. I found this book desperately sad to read- like a dull ache in my chest that grew and grew. It made me queasy to think of aging; how easy it is to squander time with those you love and how quickly and completely your body can diminish. Thomas Hart, however, was possibly one of my most favorite characters I’ve ever read about. I think I can attribute most of that dull ache to how feverishly I felt for him. Not that I necessarily wanted everything to go his way, but Perry’s writing made me feel as if I was wholly experiencing every emotion alongside his character. I know this is a fairly basic concept and goal when an author is writing a protagonist, but I don’t know I’ve ever experienced reading this way before. (Also, I DESPISED Grace. Such a selfish and cruel character. I’m curious how others felt about her). Lastly.. I COULD NOT BELIEVE MY EYES WHEN I SAW CORA SEABOURNES NAME ON THE PAGE. I nearly screamed. I cannot wait to go reread the rest of Perry’s books. I love her so much. 1000/10

I think this book is a triumph in the way it portrays science, religion, and human connection--even across lifetimes. The story and characters were compelling, and the astronomy metaphors were lovingly crafted. Sarah Perry's writing style won't be for everyone, but by the end of the book, I was in love with how she described this particular world. I also love that there was a bit of mixed-media, and Thomas Hart's newspaper columns often had some of my favorite lines in the book, such as: "I'd rather be prone to being fooled than be too wise a man for wonder." and "I have found the proper motion of the stars a comfort. It reminds me that we are all in motion, and we're never unchanged. Often it seems we stand still and lonely, absolutely solitary on the turning world. But all the same: we move."

Claire Messud opens “This Strange Eventful History” with a prologue that announces, “I want to save lives. Or simply: I want to save life.” That may sound pretentious — she’s just a writer, after all — but it’s prophetic, an aspiration wholly borne out by this monumental novel, which is a work of salvage and salvation. As the title suggests, though, it’s not exactly a novel — or not only a novel. Rather than being cut from whole cloth, “This Strange Eventful History” is quilted from scraps of memory treasured in the author’s attic for decades. To a certain extent, the project began with a 1,500-page memoir written out by Messud’s paternal grandfather, who was born in what was once French Algeria. Now, after a lifetime of reflection, Messud has published a book that imagines how three generations of the Cassar family rode the geopolitical waves from World War II into the 21st century. Literary spelunkers may expect the voyeuristic thrill of climbing through the life of the author who wrote “The Emperor’s Children,” “The Woman Upstairs” and other terrific novels, but there are treasures here far beyond the merely autobiographical. The names have been changed, and the copyright page warns nosy readers that “all characters, events, and incidents have been fictionalized.” Isn’t that the case, though, with anyone’s family history? We all live and move and have our being in a discombobulated library of familial tales that get more dubious the further they deviate from what we need to be true. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

The publishers clearly had trouble blurbing this, because I was so unsure of what to expect going in, and by the end felt that the blurb captured nothing of what was the essence of this spectacular novel. However, I should levy that criticism carefully, because I am also finding it difficult to capture my thoughts and response to it in words. This is a big, broad, expansive novel, that crosses decades, borders, and political climates. It’s a tangled web of complex, flawed family history. It is always compelling, but managed to grow on me the more I read. A gritty look at identity, statehood, belonging, family (and all its attendant duties), and love. I know it will reward a reread. How did this miss the shortlist? I don’t know.

I loved this book right from the first chapter. The first chapter takes place during the childhood of Francois Cassar and his little sister Denise, French Algerian children during World War Two. It describes their walk out into the countryside outside the little town of L'Arba. I decided to take a little nap after reading the chapter. When I woke, I was surprised not to find myself in Algeria. That is how beautiful and evocative this book is. I didn't just feel like I was there. A little sleep-addled, I literally thought I was there. Francois, Denise and their mother Lucienne had to flee to Algeria when Germany attacked France in World War Two. Their father Gaston was a naval attache, working for the French government in Greece. He had to remain available to the government, but he sent his wife and children to stay with relatives in Algeria. The family are what the French call pied-noirs (black feet), French families who have lived long enough in a colony to have ties there (and it's not clear if the Cassars are, as Francois' in-laws put it later, "entirely white"). When Algeria wins its independence in the early 60s, the Cassars find themselves without a country. The Algerians don't want white French people any more, and the French accept them as citizens, but look down on them as Algerian. Itineracy becomes a family theme, as the next two generations of Cassars live all over the world: France, England, the U.S., Canada. For a while even Gaston, Lucienne and Denise live in Argentina. Neither Francois nor Denise will settle for anything less than the beautiful love story that their parents have lived, completely devoted to each other. Neither of them will achieve that. The closest Denise comes to marriage is a long-distance, mostly imaginary affair. And Francois' marriage is troubled. But part of the beauty of this story is that, troubled as they are, the family becomes each other's home. Secret-keeping is also a family tradition. There is a huge, scandalous secret that comes out at the very end of the book. A gorgeously-written multi-generational family story about how we carry on despite our sorrows and continue to love despite our differences and about the true meaning of home. Like my reviews? Check out my blog Author of The Saint's Mistress

This completely enveloping story tells the tale of three generations of a French-Algerian family from the 1940s to 2010. Gaston and Lucienne wonder if their love is the masterpiece of their lives and little do they know that the perfection of their relationship will set a standard for following generations. As a member of the French Navy, he and his family live around the Mediterranean with the plan to return to their beloved Algiers, But even though the Cassar family has lived in Algeria for more than a century, they must leave when Algeria becomes independent of France. They are unmoored, even though son Francois is gathering advanced degrees across Europe and North America; his attempt to free his family from what he sees as their genteel poverty. But there's a strangeness--their Gaston's anxious daughter Denise will spend her whole life wondering who and what she is. Francois, their son, marries a woman so different that it's hard to imagine them on the same astral plane. There's anxiety, depression, paranoia in the Cassar family, not so different from many families, yet somehow very different indeed. What if the grandparents' deep and abiding love is more than the family understands? I was embraced by "This Strange Eventful History" from the first paragraph. Claire Messud's expression of Algeria in the 1920s when Gaston and Lucienne's unlikely love blossoms is entrancing, as is raising their family around the middle east before WWII, and taking refuge in Algeria during the war and seeking a place in the world that has changed. Messud smoothly changes the POV between the characters at different stages of their lives with deep and satisfying result. I am grateful to WW Norton and Netgalley for a digital review copy in exchange for an honest review.

Best Messud I've read, actually, best book I've read this year. I listened to the audiobook twice, back to back. Cassandra Campbell's voice draws me in right away from the very beginning. Places and periods like French Algeria, Salonica during WWII, later Argentina, Australia, France... all sound distant but Campbell's narration, and of course, Messud's lyrical writing, draw the foreign locales closer and make the characters intimate to me. That this is an autobiographical, historic fiction makes it more interesting, as I follow Messud's stand in, Chloe in the novel, how she remembers her grandfather Gaston, father Francois, mother Barbara from Canada, her grandmother Lucianne, aunt Denise... All names despite just listening, I can recall and their stories stay in my mind. I can relate to the illness, the caring for, and later the death of the older generation, the gap between the young and the old, how their values and perspectives on life differ. I listened eagerly their differing views on religion, on family and home, and in particular, and at the larger socio-political arena, their conflicting views on colonialism. An intimate family saga, epic in scope, with backdrops of many crucial historic events. I've thoroughly enjoyed listening to this approx. 17 hour audiobook. The shortcoming remains, however, and that's with any audiobook, I can't mark anything down. I'm sure if I read the 438 page novel, I'd have put in many sticky tabs or highlighted numerous passages. I've read other similar novels and autobiography, The Years by both Virginia Woolf and the same title by Annie Ernaux, and Isak Dinesen's Out of Africa... Messud's This Strange Eventful History I've enjoyed the most.

This book is not for readers who need a plot. This book is very much character driven. What made it special for me was that the author's written word was based the 1500 page memoir written by her grandfather along with surviving family letters which made the characters more believable right from the start. The novel covers three generations of a family over a seven decades time period (1940 - 2010) with an epilogue which is dated 1927 which reveals a twist that made me want reread it again, given this new perspective. There are five main characters (with many others) who provide very different points of view in alternating sections ranging from dreams, ambitions and disappointments. Quoting the novel, it is this strange eventful history that made a life. Not good or bad--rather, both good and bad--but that was not the point. Above all, they had been, for so long, wildly curious. Just to see, to experience all that they could, to set foot anywhere, to speak to anyone, taste anything, to learn, to know.

Making my way through the Booker longlist for 2024; like Orbital, this is one I'm not sure I would have picked up otherwise, and I'm so grateful I did. This Strange Eventful History is a character study of three generations of a family from French Algeria, to an extent based on stories from the author's own family. It is not plot driven. I am usually not a fan of books where the characters are continually remembering events instead of being involved in an active plot, but I was really drawn in here, rooting for each character as they ruminated over professional triumphs and letdowns, familial and personal relationships and obligations, and feelings of happiness, depression, grief and loneliness. This is one that will stick with me for awhile. My only complaint is about the quality of the first edition hardback - my copy had pages in the beginning that were almost too light to read, and towards the end it started falling apart, although I was handling it with care.

This Strange Eventful History is my read of the year (so far!) It's a story that goes everywhere and also nowhere all at once: it's hugely broad in scope, geographically, temporally and politically, while at the same time being very narrow in its focus on the characters and their internal worlds. This isn't a novel so much about what happens; rather, its focus is on who the characters are and how they come to be. We follow a French Algerian family, with particular focus on Gaston, his son Francois, and his granddaughter Chloe, and observe the changing world through the perspectives of each family member, particularly as they are in relationship with one another. This is a novel that rewards patient and careful reading—make it to the epilogue for a very important key to the story.

What a stunning book! It took me a little time to get fully absorbed in Claire Messud's multi-generational family novel, but once I got acquainted with everyone, I was hooked. I pretty much tore through the last half of the book after a slow-ish start. At times, I found this book almost unbearably sad. Since we follow each of the characters from youth into adulthood, we witness their many struggles and the painful process of aging and watching your loved ones age. With this family in particular, they deal with the unsettled feeling of not having a real homeland, as they move from place to place during WWII. There are a lot of historical events going on in the background, but the story told in This Strange Eventful History is a small one. The impact global events have on the characters is depicted so well and very subtly. With a lot of historical novels, the characters are at the center of the action, but it's so much more realistic and satisfying for me to read about people just trying to live their lives while the world falls apart around them. I'm glad I stuck with this one, I've read a few of Claire Messud's novels and I think this might be her best yet.

A family who, due to colonization and war, belongs nowhere and asks "what is home?" From 1940 to 2010, members of the Cassar family lived in France, Algeria, Canada, Argentina, Switzerland, Australia, and the United States. For some, the move to a new country was deliberate; for others, it was demanded. This family saga is a lesson in world history and Messud masterfully structures her novel in distinct parts, by decade. Within each decade, she then hones in on specific characters and the effect past and present world events have in the particular country in which they live. The narrative is immersive but somewhat melancholic. Two maps, included on the opening pages, are wonderful aids for readers not readily familiar with cities such as L'Arba, Salonia, Ghardiaia, Algiers, Toulon, Toronto, and Sydney. Messud's novel was inspired by her own family's history and a 1000-handwritten page memoir her grandfather, who was born and raised in the French colony of Algeria, had written. Readers (like me) who are particularly interested in family history and associated ancestral homes are sure to appreciate how she reveals the effects worldwide events have on individual families. 2026 Des Moines Library Challenge: Read a life story.

The weaving together of generational stories was beautifully done, and the ending was truly a shock

“People are lonely, is my point here. Many people can’t say to those they know well what it is they feel they might want to say.” A couple of weeks ago, I had my heart broken by Sally Rooney. Shortly thereafter, I decided to let Elizabeth Strout take a crack at smashing it to smithereens. Yep, that did it. Oh, Friends! There’s nothing left of it now. This little novel can be read at lightning speed, but Lucy Barton’s effect on me will be everlasting. One could say this is a novel about William, or about Lucy’s attempt to understand her past marriage to William. Why she was drawn to him in the first place and William to her. Why she still feels a strong connection to him and vice versa. Well yes, of course it is about that. But it’s also an attempt to understand our connections to others – those we know quite well (or think we do), those whom we know very little, or those we see as a passing figure in our lives – or, perhaps one we’ve never even seen before. Imagine, if you will, a huge web of invisible connections between all human beings. Something about us that is part of a greater picture, whether or not you believe in some higher being. In whatever way you can think of such a thing, just humor me a bit here. Are there some people that can sense this connection better than others? They may not understand it, but they can feel it. Could this then lead to empathy in certain persons? If so, then I believe that Lucy has been gifted with a massive share of this empathy. Not only does she feel things herself, she is highly sensitive to what others are going through as well. This can only happen through a strong desire to truly understand another. “I have never had a feeling of belonging to any group of people. Yet here I was in rural Maine and what had just come to me was an understanding, I think that is the only way I can put it, of these people in their houses, these few houses we passed by. It was an odd thing, but it was real, for a few moments I felt this: that I understood where I was. And even, also, that I loved the people we did not see who inhabited the few houses and who had their trucks in the front of these houses. This is what I almost felt. This is what I felt.” Oh, Lucy. I do know what you are talking about. Your musings go here, there and everywhere, much like our own minds work. Instead of sitting down to tea with you and having a chat, I felt like I was inside your head. And while I was there, I felt your pain, your confusion, and your joy! Lucy is a quiet person, she feels herself invisible, but what she has to say resonates loud and clear. She questions those choices we make. Were they the right ones? Don’t we all ask ourselves this – constantly?! And how we feel about something should not be discounted. It is a lived experience and when one wants to share it with another, we are really just hoping for an ear to listen. We aren’t looking for answers or to be told we are wrong about how we “feel”. How can our emotions be “wrong”? Poor Lucy knows what it’s like to be brushed off, and it is indeed a very lonesome feeling. “A secretion of loneliness came to me. Because what I had said was true.” This is a short book that contains a whole lot of substance. If you haven’t read Elizabeth Strout at all, please do! Her writing is effortless yet elegant and highly affecting. If you’ve read and loved Lucy Barton’s stories, then this is a must read. Every time I read her bits of wisdom, I feel so enriched. “This is the way of life: the many things we do not know until it is too late.”

Elizabeth Strout writes perfectly about our common human imperfections. She creates characters who are so realistic that it’s just so natural to understand what they are feeling or thinking, even if their experiences are different from ours. Lucy Barton is one of those so real characters and she’s back. If you enjoyed My Name Is Lucy Barton and Anything Is Possible, this is a must read. It continues Lucy’s story later in her life when she’s in her sixties and unlike the first two which are connected stories, this one is a novel. Lucy tells us in the beginning of the book that this story is about her ex husband William, but it’s soon apparent that it’s also about Lucy and the people in her life and by the end of the book, we know it’s about all of us, really, as Stout beautifully reflects on what we recognize as true in life. I was drawn in immediately with Lucy’s introspective and intimate thoughts. Lucy and William have been divorced for years, but have remained good friends who rely on each other, who can be brutally honest with each other, and still the tender closeness between them is touching. He asks for her help now as he struggles with changes in his life and trying to deal with a revelation about his mother’s past . Lucy, of course steps up and is there to help William forward, but that means going to the past, his mother’s as well as his. Lucy’s past is present here as well and it’s heartbreaking when she recounts her relationship with her mother, the abject poverty she came from, the traumatic experiences of her childhood, her divorce from William, and the death of her second husband. But somehow I felt the same uplifting feeling as in the other books in the series, knowing where Lucy has come to in her life given where she came from. I love how she tells the story with caveats at times, with stunning honesty, so we always see the good and the bad of situations, what Lucy loves about people and what she doesn’t, things she doesn’t necessarily like about herself, her own fears and feelings of inadequacy at times . “I need to say this, though”. “But there is also this .” Without giving away William’s story as told by Lucy, I’ll just say that Lucy Barton is one of my favorite characters and Elizabeth Stout is one of my favorite writers . Strout dedicates this book to her husband “And to anyone who needs it - this if for you” . What a beautiful sentiment. What an extraordinary writer ! I received an advanced copy of this book from Random House through NetGalley.

Do we ever really know anyone? Do we even know ourselves as well as we think we do? Elizabeth Strout has a keen understanding of the human condition. I’ve said more than once that she can write about the ordinary in a most extraordinary way, and she respects her readers enough to never overexplain, which makes for an enriching reading experience. Perhaps Strout says it best on her website: It is not “good” or “bad” that interests me as a writer, but the murkiness of human experience and the consistent imperfections of our lives. — Elizabeth Strout This is a short book but it demands to be read slowly and savored to pick up the nuances, as often there is more to be read between the lines than what is actually being said. It's one of those quiet books that grows on you with reflection. Lucy Barton of Anything is Possible and My Name is Lucy Barton is now in her 60s and a widow. She and William, her first husband and the father of her children, have been divorced for years but remain friendly. William is going through a rough spot as he discovers the truth about his family history that has left him wondering if he ever truly knew his mother at all. Lucy talks to us as if we were sitting down and having a chat. She had an impoverished childhood filled with things so horrendous that she can’t even speak of them, but is now a successful, celebrated author. William is often cold and distant, and was an unfaithful husband to his wives. As Lucy helps William through his current crisis, we are privy to her most private and introspective thoughts as she works out the mystery of who she is and her relationships with others. This a profound reflection on the human condition and relationships between spouses, parents and children. “Oh, William” can be “Oh, anybody”, for don’t we all have those secret places within us full of doubts, struggles, and weaknesses? “This is the way of life,” Lucy says: “the many things we do not know until it is too late.” Olive Kitteridge first stole my heart, but Lucy is in the running as my favorite Strout character. Lucy makes me want to be a better person who can see the human weaknesses behind the façade, to show grace and understanding to others because we do not know their personal struggles and demons. * I received a digital copy via Netgalley for review. All opinions are my own. * This was a buddy read with my friend Marialyce, and one that inspired much reflection and discussion

Throughout my marriage to William, I had had the image—and this was true even when Catherine was alive, and more so after she died—so often I had the private image of William and me as Hansel and Gretel, two small kids lost in the woods looking for the breadcrumbs that could lead us home. This may sound like it contradicts my saying that the only home I ever had was with William, but in my mind they are both true and oddly do not go against each other. I am not sure why this is true, but it is. I suppose because being with Hansel—even if we were lost in the woods—made me feel safe. -------------------------------------- People are lonely, is my point here. Many people can’t say to those they know well what it is they feel they might want to say. My Name is Lucy Barton (2016) had been a very successful novel for Elizabeth Strout. She had even written a followup, Anything is Possible, (2017) a collection of stories, in which Lucy visits her Mid-West relations after a prolonged absence. Laura Linney was starring in a one-woman show of the former. Strout was there for a rehearsal when Laura opined that maybe William, Lucy’s ex, had had an affair. A lightbulb went off for Strout and she realized that William had a story of his own. Thus was born Oh, William! Elizabeth Strout - image from Time magazine She carried forward details about William from the prior books and built outward, or dug deeper, from there. There were some real-world elements of William’s tale. William’s father was a German POW, held in Maine, and his mother, the wife of a farmer who was using POW labor, fell in love with him and left her husband. The POW camp is a real place. So my husband and I took a field trip. We went up there, we went to all the places that Lucy and William go on their own trip, and I took furious notes on everything I saw. And when we came back I settled down and wrote their story. - RandomHouse Book Club kit Caveat Lector You should know before diving in too far that, while I have read Strout’s Olive books, I have not read her prior Lucy Barton books. As Oh, William! is a third in that stack, this is not a trivial shortcoming. There are likely to be connections between this book and the prior two that I missed. But I have read up on those a bit, and acquired some gist. That said, I believe Oh, William! can be read, enjoyed and, hopefully, reviewed as a stand-alone. Just sayin’, cards on the table. On the other hand, I felt very personally touched and engaged by the novel. I am of a common demographic with William, (we even share TWO names) and re-viewing the events of a lifetime is a natural hazard of this place in our existence. One thinks about the ages, the events, the people, the possibilities, the chances missed, and caught, the attempts that failed or succeeded, the misreads and the insights, the absence of understanding and the wise perceptions, maybe the bullets dodged, the awful relationships that never happened, the good ones that did, maybe the actual bullets that impacted elsewhere. In a way one might see this novel as a look back over William’s life from the point of his final days. A life examined. It could also be seen as the life of a relationship examined, the intersection of two trunks, Lucy and William, meeting, intertwining, then branching out in separate but linked directions. In any such examination, whether of a life or relationship, it is natural, I believe, to wonder what might have been. Could we have performed better in the roles in which we were cast, or in which we had cast ourselves. To wonder why the director led us to this spot, to stage right instead of left, and always wondering at the playwright, and whether there was ever a script at all. This question of choices is one Strout takes on here. How much freedom of choice is there, actually, how much decision-making? William and Lucy talk about her decision to leave him. I would like to know—I really would like to—when does a person actually choose anything? You tell me.” I thought about this. He continued, “Once every so often—at the very most—I think someone actually chooses something. Otherwise we’re following something—we don’t even know what it is but we follow it, Lucy. So, no. I don’t think you chose to leave.” After a moment I asked, “Are you saying you don’t believe in free will?” William put both hands to his head for a moment. “Oh stop with the free will crap,” he said. He kept walking back and forth as he spoke, and he pushed his hand through his white hair. “…I’m talking about choosing things. You know, I knew a guy who worked in the Obama administration, and he was there to help make choices. And he told me that very very few times did they actually have to make a choice. [This was taken from a conversation Strout actually had with an Obama official, about how the decisions to be made were so obvious that there was little choosing required] And I always found that so interesting. Because it’s true. We just do—we just do, Lucy.” And how might it be that so much of our lives is so constrained? A lot of that is based on where we began. Marx would call it class, and that is a very powerful force indeed. Strout digs into the specific roots of this for her characters. Lucy had grown up poor and miserable, (I have no memory of my mother ever touching any of her children except in violence.) and never felt entirely comfortable, persistently invisible even, (I have always thought that if there was a big corkboard and on that board was a pin for every person who ever lived, there would be no pin for me.) in the more middle-class world in which she lived with William, a parasitologist researcher (a nod to her father of the same profession) and teacher, despite her successful authorial career, despite living in a nice neighborhood in Manhattan, despite raising successful children. She is not the only major character haunted by an impoverished childhood. It is made quite clear that this other character had been severely damaged by that experience and that it had driven many life decisions. The external of the story is William’s discovery at age seventy-one that he has a half-sister he had never known about. William and Lucy had remained on friendly terms, despite their divorce and subsequent remarryings. William’s third wife has left him. Lucy is widowed. He asks her go to Maine with him to look into this never-suspected sibling. Although it seems a bit odd, Lucy agrees to go along. It gives them both opportunities to look back, not just on their own lives, but on the lives of William’s parents. Coming to this revelation so late in life raises an issue. Is it ever really possible to truly know anyone? Lucy had kept much of her early life hidden away. William’s mother, Catherine, a very large presence in their marriage, had done the same. William had kept plenty of secrets during their marriage, including multiple affairs. He covered his true feelings with a friendly façade, and Lucy loathed him for that. But Lucy had kept a part of herself turned away from him as well. Her family’s rejection of her marriage to William left a lasting scar. The externals of their trip reveal some buried truths, but this is a novel about internals, not physical action. How does one cope with the challenges of dealing with other people, with those to whom we are closest? There is the challenge of knowing who they truly are in the first place. And then there is the challenge of letting our true selves be seen, to allow ourselves to be vulnerable, to trust others with our most delicate emotional parts. This is almost certainly universal. Who among us does not have at least one secret (and I would bet that most have more) that we keep hidden even from our closest friends, our lovers, our mates, parents, children, priests, shrinks, not to mention the police? There was an amazing film released in 1973, Ingmar Bergman’s Scenes From a Marriage. (Recently remade for HBO) It examines ten years of a union doomed to failure. The original was a revelation for me. My gf at the time urged me not to see it, concerned about the impact on my view of whatever-it-was we had. Oh, William! reminded me of that, less as a forensic analysis of a marital corpse, but as a broader view of a lifelong connection, in their marriage, and beyond it, a friendship. It looks at what went into building their marriage, at what kept it from being more than it was, and at the impact of William’s mother on their lives. Even after they split up, Lucy often says He is the only home I ever had. One of the many triumphs of Oh, William! is how Strout offers up many small bits, pointing out the things about their interactions with each other that drove them crazy, that show without telling. He stared at me, and then I realized he wasn’t really seeing me. “Did you sleep?” I asked him, and he broke into a smile then, his mustache moving, and he said, “I did. How crazy is that? I slept like a baby.” He did not ask about my sleep and I did not tell him. The past is our inevitable root. We are not ents, that can simply follow our needs and drag ourselves away from where we sprouted. That past is inescapable, even if we can change our external circumstances, move up in the world, move away from the painful parts that formed us. But we live in the present, and the past often appears to the here-and-now in the form of ghosts, of one sort or another. When William and Lucy visit Fort Fairfield in Maine, it is truly a ghost town, barely even a town any more. Images they see in the local library conjure a long dead era. In a way their marriage, if not their friendship, is a spectral presence, long dead, although still hovering in the room. I usually try to come up with something that did not sit well in a book, gripes of one sort or another, elements that might have been better. This time, really, I got nuthin’. There is so much in this novel that is beautifully portrayed, insightful, wise, and moving. A penetrating portrait of two people and their half-century of connection, warts and all. Oh, William! is a masterwork by one of our greatest fiction writers, at the peak of her creative power. Oh, Elizabeth. You’ve done it again. There have been a few times—and I mean recently—when I feel the curtain of my childhood descend around me once again. A terrible enclosure, a quiet horror: This is the feeling and it was my entire childhood, and it came back to me with a whoosh the other day. To remember so quietly, yet vividly, to have it re-presented to me in this way, the sense of doom I grew up with, knowing I could never leave that house (except to go to school, which meant the world to me, even though I had no friends there, but I was out of the house)—to have this come back to me presented a domain of dull and terrifying dreariness to me: There was no escape. When I was young there was no escape, is what I am saying. Review posted – November 5, 2021 Publication dates ----------Hardcover = October 19, 2021 ----------Trade paperback - April 26, 2022 I received an ARE of Oh, William! from Random House in return for a fair review. Thanks, folks, and thanks to NetGalley for facilitating. This review has been (or soon will be) cross-posted on my site, Coot’s Reviews. Stop by and say Hi! =============================EXTRA STUFF Links to the author’s personal, Twitter and FB pages Interviews -----The Guardian - Elizabeth Strout: ‘I’ve thought about death every day since I was 10’ by Kate Kellaway -----Time - Elizabeth Strout Knows We Can’t Escape the Past by Annabel Gutterman -----Entertainment Weekly - Howe a literary conscious uncoupling and Laura Linney helped Elizabeth Strout write Oh, William! - by Seija Rankin -----Bookpage - Elizabeth Strout: The heart and soul of an emotional spy by Alice Cary – for Anything is Possible -----WBUR - Author Elizabeth Strout explores marriage, memory and class in 'Oh William!' - audio - 9:26 My reviews of other books by Strout/b> -----2019 - Olive, Again -----2008 - Olive Kitteridge Items of Interest from the author -----WBUR - excerpt -----Random House - Book Club Kit -----Literary Hub - excerpt

Oh Strout! You did it again! You brought back to life another character who is so endearing to me: Lucy, with all her naïveté even as she ages. This is a charming and intimate story of Lucy and her 1st husband, William, and their relationship as friends. Also a reflection on who she was and is- still learning about herself all these years later at 63. The characterization is so Authentic. The writing so simplistic. So Strout Like. So enjoyable. 5⭐️

It is such a special thing to read a book and feel so close to the characters that you don’t think you’re reading it at all. Rather, you feel you’re actually part of it. Whether the reader identifies with one of the main characters such as ex husband and wife, William and Lucy, or you’re a voyeur sitting on the side watching it all unfold. It’s all so natural, understood and visceral. Comparable to watching aspects of your own life with the pain, desire, loss and regret. Yes, it’s all here, and some. Gems like this make your hand reflex to your mouth, the reaction is autonomous. You are sitting at their kitchen table or in their car, listening, talking or ignoring. You don't need to imagine. Being absent. The consequences are life changing. Women are usually out the door, while their men are not even present. A sad truth. Women attuned and available, men estranged and remote. So, that’s all I have to say about this, the best book I’ve experienced in 2021. 5 Stars

5★ “Grief is such a—oh, it is such a solitary thing; this is the terror of it, I think. It is like sliding down the outside of a really long glass building while nobody sees you.” I loved this, which is no surprise since I’ve enjoyed Strout’s writing since I first read it. I’ve never been particularly fond of Lucy Barton herself. She grew up in extreme poverty, was called smelly at school, and her home life was violent, due to her father’s post-traumatic stress after his World War 2 experiences in Germany. They lived an isolated life outside of town. She’s just buried her second husband, David, who was raised as a Hasidic Jew, so he was another kind of outsider, and they understood each other as nobody else could. “My husband’s name was David Abramson and he was—oh, how can I tell you what he was? He was him! We were—we really were—kind of made for each other, except that seems a terrifically trite thing to say but— Oh, I cannot say any more right now.” This is like leafing through letters from a friend. Lucy frequently interrupts herself, saying she must add one more thing. Or sometimes she says she can’t talk about it right now. Some of it is new news, some of it is catching you up on what she might not have told you in the past, or reminding you of what she did tell you, because you’re old friends. By that, I mean that she’s referring to ‘her’ first book, My Name Is Lucy Barton, and the short stories that ‘she’ wrote about her hometown of Amgash, Anything Is Possible. You do not need to have read those books to enjoy this one. She brings you up to speed with anything important. Lucy is sixty-three now, a well-known author whose books are sold all over the world. She has travelled everywhere, but she has never really lost her feeling of awkwardness, of not belonging, of being invisible. “I have always thought that if there was a big corkboard and on that board was a pin for every person who ever lived, there would be no pin for me. I feel invisible, is what I mean. But I mean it in the deepest way. It is very hard to explain. And I cannot explain it except to say—oh, I don’t know what to say! Truly, it is as if I do not exist, I guess is the closest thing I can say. I mean I do not exist in the world. It could be as simple as the fact that we had no mirrors in our house when I was growing up except for a very small one high above the bathroom sink. I really do not know what I mean, except to say that on some very fundamental level, I feel invisible in the world.” She mourns David but keeps on keeping on, largely because she is still strongly connected to the two daughters she had with William, her first husband. The girls are adults, close to each other, and they shop and lunch with their mother. William lives with his third wife and their ten-year-old daughter. The exes have settled into a kind of fond, companionable relationship, so much so that it’s easy to think they will end up together again – happily ever after! Then the prickliness between them becomes scratchy again, and it's thank goodness she’s out of there! Very early in the book she tells us about Joanne. She frequently drops these kinds of bombshells. “About a year after our marriage ended, William married a woman he had had an affair with for six years.” But they'd raised two daughters during the twenty years they were married, so there is a lot of family history between them, much of it happy. There are many nostalgic reminiscences about family celebrations, and ‘Remember Whens’. She’s writing ‘today’, telling us anecdotes and truths as they occur to her. She moves through her life story in a linear order, but of course when she is reminded of her childhood or young married life, she stops to talk about it. She is more sophisticated and worldly, and is embarrassed sometimes by William - his clothes or his manner - which is when she thinks “Oh, William!” with fondness. William has asked her to go with him to research his mother’s family history in Maine, because he’s discovered some shocking news, and he needs Lucy with him. They will fly together then rent a car and stay in towns along the way. It is trite to say it’s a journey of discovery, but of course, it is. Lucy does not write as if she’s a literary author; she writes conversationally, almost embarrassed to say how foolish she was, how inexperienced, how awkward, how invisible. She is emotional and raw and very insightful – now. She thinks it’s only in retrospect that she has some idea of what was going on. I'm inclined to think she was easy for someone (William) to measure himself against and be sure he'd come out ahead. When William’s mother, Catherine, who features largely in the book, took them on family holidays to fancy resorts, Lucy said people lounging around the pool knew how to relax and order drinks. “. . . how did they all know what to do? I feel invisible—as I have said—and yet in that situation I had the strangest sensation of both being invisible and yet having a spotlight on my head that said: This young woman knows nothing.” That is something like the quotation I opened with, where she wrote about grief being like sliding down a glass building (obviously visible) but nobody sees you. There is a time when they are driving that William reminisces about something odd he’d seen Lucy do during their marriage and how he’d laughed at her. Telling her now, he laughs again. “I looked out the window of my side of the car, and my face became very warm. ‘You’re a strange one, Lucy,’ he said after a moment. And that was that.” She remembers that David loved her, admired her, was thankful they had met. “And then he would say—every morning he said this— ‘Lucy B, Lucy B, how did we meet? I thank God we are we.’ Never in a thousand years would he have laughed at me. Never. For anything.” It’s a journal, it’s a road trip, it’s a family history, it’s an exploration of one woman’s invisible life except it isn’t invisible. She’s the crucial hub for her family and her extended family. I wish Lucy would just keep adding to her letters or journal or reminiscences so I could check in with her from time to time. I do like her as a character now. Thanks to NetGalley and both Penguin and Random House for preview copies. This is due to be published in October. I sure hope she is working on another one - either Elizabeth Strout or Lucy Barton, that is. :) P.S. There's a great article here about how Strout was prompted to write the book. I can't post a link, but if you remove the spaces after the ew it should work. ew. com/books/author-interviews/elizabeth-strout-oh-william/

****4.5 Stars****Scenes from a marriage. Once again, the narrator is Lucy Barton. After her second husband’s death, she has rekindled a friendship with her first husband, William. I was touched by the lives of Lucy and William, not only for their personal revelations, but in recognition of my own. There are elements of the story that echo my own life, and they provoked deep reflection on my part even after I finished the novel. We both left our first marriage after 20 years. Lucy’s thoughts and feelings when her marriage ended felt familiar and true and was an emotional gut punch for me. “Sometimes I thought I would die from the pain of our separating, and the pain it caused my girls, but I did not die, and I am here, and so is William.” This novel is sparingly written and intensely truthful, my favorite kind of story. Strout’s prose is always conversational, intimate, and often infused with heartbreaking disclosures. I love this author and how she writes! ** Recommended! **

William has lately been through some very sad events—many of us have—but I would like to mention them, it feels almost a compulsion; he is seventy-one years old. My second husband, David, died last year, and in my grief for him I have felt grief for William as well. Grief is such a—oh, it’s such a solitary thing; this is the terror of it, I think. It is like sliding down the outside of a really long glass building while nobody sees you. This is an excerpt from the first page of Oh William and is, I believe, a perfect sample of the conversational tone of it and also of Ms. Strout's ability to grab the reader right from the very first page. Don’t tell me you’re not dying to know what kind of sad events William has been through lately because I won’t believe it. And what can we say about grief… Oh… And terror… And loneliness… Oh, Ms. Strout you just about finished killing me, to be honest. God… I don’t think I can do this now or that I ever will, by the way. I mean, how can I write something that will give justice to the writing of Elizabeth Strout? How am I supposed to describe the way a story like this pulls on my heartstrings. Oh, my goodness, so much subtlety, so much wisdom, so much elegance. I… I don’t even know how and why I feel like this, but I do feel so upset about what I just read. A complete mess! And I’m not even the crybaby type. I do believe that the events of the last couple of years, that everything I’ve been and am still going through added to the profound reading experience I just had. Of course it did. But then I think about all the other times I’ve read Ms. Strout and I can see that this was bound to happen sooner or later. Life’s all about timing. Now take a look at this, please: …as I was looking at the lights of the city and the Empire State Building way in the distance, I thought of Mrs. Nash, the guidance counsellor from my school who drove me to college that first day—oh I loved her! As we drove along she suddenly pulled off the turnpike and drove to a shopping mall, and tapping my arm she said, “Get out, get out”, and we got out and went into the mall and then she put a hand on my shoulder and looked into my eyes and said, “In ten years, Lucy, you can pay me back, okay?” Sigh!! So much insight into human nature in just a few sentences, I know. And such economical use of language. Just beautiful. No, I don’t think I’m going to say anything about William or Lucy, to be honest. I just want to say that, in my opinion, this is literary fiction at its finest and most elegant form. …we are all mythologies, mysterious. We are all mysteries, is what I mean. This may be the only thing in the world I know to be true. Sorry if, once again, I just ended up rambling along but what else can I say about a book that made me certain that there’s so much more to us than what meets the eye. Call it a soul, if you like.

LOVED and devoured i loved this writing style so much

Oh, William! Lucy is back again with a story dedicated to her ex husband. We learn about her intricate relationship with him, and how as always, she has a type of coming of age and a reckoning of sorts - a gentle one - of how he fits into her life. Lucy Barton is an author that 'comes from nothing', her ex mother in law would introduce her as 'Lucy that comes from nothing'. Lucy is such an affable woman, one that does anything for anyone, including her ex husband. William was far from a perfect husband, and this extends to their non traditional relationship to where we are now. Lucy is a widow, and regularly meets William for coffee, they have a good relatiohship and are there in a collegial way for their two adult daughers. She even goes on a road trip to find out answers to a secret family of times gone by. She just gets things done. She holds no ill feelings, no remorse and no ill will to others that have wronged her. Lucy always has an amazing outlook on life, and thus Elizabeth Strout in her unique way of presenting life and the human condition without pathos, sentimentalism or excessive 'anything'. I love the author's writing. Lucy's adult daughters that she had shielded from their fathers failings would often say 'Oh mum!' in a loving way, but most of all, this is a story of Lucy, where Lucy learns all about Lucy. She adored her second husband, wasn't afraid to mention those relationships between each marriage, never gloated about her very successful writing career, nor wallowed in self pity about the loss of the man she loved so deeply. Not did she ever express any true anger about this ‘nothing’ she came from. The skilled narration always shows this, too. I left this story which was masterfully narrated by Kimberly Far thinking about the gigantic character we know as Lucy Barton. I love her. And I love that at the core she was left questioning this - Oh, Lucy! I will find every single piece of writing by this author and devour it all.

Here comes Lucy Barton again. And whether we remember her from previous books or not, it doesn’t matter. She is who she is, and she tells life as she sees it. In this story, she shares a lot of what is happening with William, her first husband and a mystery he needs to solve. But along the way, there is much self-discovery for Lucy, as well. In this short book, you feel the love, the friendship, the companionship, the sense of family, even the past betrayals that each has experienced from others that brings a new sense of understanding to their lives. There is much to love about Lucy, William and this story. Take some time with it.

What a delight to read a book by Elizabeth Strout again! I find myself relishing each word, phrase and sentence — she has such a gift for writing and storytelling. I have not read My Name is Lucy Barton (#1) or Anything is Possible (#2) so I came to the third installment in the series Oh William! cold, without any prior knowledge. But you best believe I am very eager to read the previous two now! I found that Oh William! succeeds as a stand-alone novel that I enjoyed immensely. The writing is beautiful and the reader comes to feel they know these characters well — their voices are so genuine as well as relatable. We become completely immersed into their world as only Ms. Strout can do. In fact, so immersed that it becomes sad to leave them. Don’t misunderstand — these are not simple characters. They are complex and flawed individuals that stay bound to each other and Lucy wonders why and shares her intimate thought process on the matter. She is an introspective individual that seems sincere, well-intentioned and likable. It was refreshing to see two divorced people stay so close to each other, like best friends. Our protagonist becomes scared and frightened at times throughout her life and in the book. I found myself just wanting to hug her and tell her it will be ok. She feels safe with William and considers him her “home” at times. William has his foibles yet he is real and faces a couple of crises and turns to Lucy for support. I highly recommend any book by Elizabeth Strout and cannot wait for her next one. She is simply a national treasure and a delight to read. Thank you to random House and NetGalley for an advance reader copy in exchange for my honest opinion.

Elizabeth Strout has returned with the story and voice of Lucy Barton as Lucy, now 63 and widowed as her second husband David has died, becomes more involved in the life of her first husband, William with whom she has always stayed in contact and had a friendship. In her often faltering thoughts and speech, as she second guesses herself often, Lucy meditates on her life, beginning in that small house in the Midwest where things were done that she doesn’t want to discuss. (Lucy is talking to us, the readers, I suppose, and mentions her success as an author.) She moves on through to college, meeting William, and then into far more details of their marriage than we have had before. Always she questions what she has done, experienced, how her childhood may have impacted her adulthood, and on. And William also is a person in crisis. How do the two of them relate. How have they ever? This is a novel of self-witness and self-discovery, with a good deal of soul searching included. A difficulty arises when the person searching their soul has been raised by warped parents and has to work out norms themselves over their life’s course. Strout has written another beautiful work that reflects the work, the difficulty, the pains and beauty and self knowledge that can come from it. Oh William can also be Oh Lucy or Oh Elizabeth! I will read anything Elizabeth Strout writes. A copy of this book was provided by the publisher through NetGalley in return for an honest review.

Oh, Elizabeth! There is a feeling of sheer exhilaration to once again come across an old friend and to hear what she has been doing in her own voice, in her own story. So re-encountering Lucy Barton—whom I “met” in a previous book six years ago was an unexpected delight. Lucy Barton is a truth-teller. Her impeccably honest voice is a breath of fresh air in a world where so many of us dissemble. Her recognition that “we are all mythologies, mysterious” encapsulates her philosophy of living and the woman herself. Much has happened to her since My Name is Lucy Barton. She is widowed and grieving from the loss of her second husband, her daughters have grown, and she remains connected– as friends—with her first husband, William, who is going through a bad spell. Why she is still connected is a mystery to her, but the reasons become less murky as the book progresses. But what elevates this novel is not the plot – which is in itself arresting—but the narrator and her ability to convey simple truths and unvarnished feelings about so much that composes the human condition. Whether the issue at hand is how a lack of childhood lever can skew one’s view of the world, how family secrets often lurk right beneath placid surfaces, how acts of hurt and tenderness are never far from us, and how we experience joys when we least expect it, Lucy is our guide to what it means to be human. Once again, Lucy’s story tells us who we are and what we think and what we do. The book is an absolute marvel, with insight after insight into the struggles and triumphs we all experience. And the voice, OMG, the pitch perfect voice! I am so grateful to Random House for enabling me to be an early reader in exchange for an honest review.

So pleased that Lucy Barton is back. And with such a genuine, natural voice, Lucy could be sitting next to me chatting about where we come from and whether it matters. An absolute delight of a book.

I read the opening line and let it tell me as much as possible about the story I was about to read. "Enero Ray, standing firm on the boat, stocky and beardless, swollen-bellied, legs astride, stares hard at the surface of the river and waits, revolver in hand." Being a Charco Press title, I had the wonderful abstract image of the cover, they never fail to contribute to the understanding of what the book might have to say, something I often refer back to look at, as its meaning becomes clearer. This title shows twin rivers, fed by tributaries, running red. It is clear that there will be blood, death and violence - and more than one episode. Just as the water of the smaller channels has no choice but to flow into the main river, so too the intent of a man standing firm, staring hard awaits his prey. But who or what else might the river claim? I really enjoyed Selva Almada's The Wind that Lays Waste (my review here) and was looking forward to this next novella, longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2024. Not a River tells a story - not linear, in a circular fashion - that begins with two men and a boy on a fishing trip, circling back to a previous trip when there were three of them, unfolding a memory that is acting on both men, that will reveal to the reader what happened to their friend. The second main tributary/narrative follows Siomara and her two daughters Lucy and Mariela. The girls are entering womanhood, the mother is becoming more protective of them. Siomara was in one of those phases she sometimes went through, when she was grouchier than usual. Saying no to everything and dealing out punishments and bans for no reason. All because she could see how the two girls were growing, how little by little they were slipping away, how sooner or later they were going to leave her as well. She lights fires as a way to deal with her emotions, since she is a girl. She has been lighting them more frequently lately. Sometimes she thinks the fire talks to her. Not like a person does, not with words. But there's something in the crackle, the soft sound of the flames, as if she could almost hear the air burning away, yes, something, right there, that speaks to her alone... Come on, you know you want to. It says. Again the story turns on itself, something has happened here too, sometimes the mother is living in the past, the present being too much for her to accept. The girls hear about a dance and plan to go. Lucy wants to be a hairdresser. She wants to give other woman those moments of peace her mother seems to feel when she is doing her hair. Sometimes we do not know if we are reading the present or the past, we observe and accept each part of the story's mosaic, until all the pieces have been laid. The narrative moves back and forth like the tide, river crossings to the mainland, people in the community are connected and affected by events that occur at the river. Paths cross, intertwine. It is necessary to let go of needing to know whether we are in the past or the present. If certain events happened before or after others. The past intrudes, as it does in life. A summer like this one. Twenty years back, a summer like this one. The same island or the next one along or the one after that. In the memory it's all just the island, with no name or exact coordinates. The longer the men stay in the forest, the more uneasy they feel about what they have done, what has happened in the past and about how unwelcome they are made to feel, inhabiting this place that carries a menacing vibe. They have been invited to a dance, they decide to leave their campsite and go. Enero has a disturbing dream, twice. Eusubio looked at him and thought for a moment. We need to go see my godfather. He knows about this stuff. He said. The other two boys are nervous about going to see the healer, but they go anyway. Mariela also has a dream, she tells her sister Lucy about it. And what happened in the dream? I don't know, like I say I just had a kind of flashback. It was weird, there were lights and sirens. There is a sense of the repetitive cycles of the generations, girls hide from their families, they grow up to become a mother who can't help but try and prevent their child from repeating the same mistakes. It never works. She pretends not to hear. Still just about strong enough to resist. But for how much longer. One day, she knows she will answer the fires's call. In less than 100 pages, the novella depicts many elements of a broken community, broken families, their efforts to try and bond, heal, escape, punish, revel and cope with the aftermath of it all. The characters in my novel, men and women who live on what the river can provide, are a reflection of what the neo-liberalism of the 1990s has done to Argentina: impoverishing it, condemning a significant part of its citizens to poverty and marginalization. Selva Almada

Masterful. This is one of our best living writers.

Well, this was an excellent read, a book that truly gets under your skin. The title says Not a River but that is exactly what this feels like, it is gentle, slowly meandering along making you feel relaxed and comfy, there are the odd warning signs that something is going on here and before you know it the river has spun you around and has claimed another reader. The writing is unusual, the dialogue has been stripped down to just the odd words between characters, no long speeches here, everything else has also been stripped right back too, each scene and lack of chapter borders makes this feel like one piece of prose…it is really rather refreshing, you don’t realise you need a book like this until you have finished it. There were odd moments in the story that had me scratching my head, the warning signs I mentioned before, little things like a throwaway phrase “smooth sheets” did I just read that right? Was it an error in translation? Head is scratched and reader moves on…then boom! one short line and all those “errors” come together and it was so shocking, rest of the book was read in awe. Charco press are forever putting out amazing translations and this book was so unique that Annie McDermott had to include a small afterword to explain her process on translating a book like this. Do not skip this just cos you have finished the story, she explains her technique and it is so very important the extra steps she takes to get the translation perfected, something A.I. can never do. Massive thanks to McDermott for the extra work she put in because without that this reader never would have had the chance to read this…let alone enjoy it as much as I did. Blog review: https://felcherman.wordpress.com/2024...

So tiny but so fierce. It’s not an easy ready. I felt uncomfortable, on the edge of my seat, holding my breath for most of this tiny fighter. So much happens. The past and the future blurs and it’s hard to find your feet. The characters are all stuck in a never-ending time loop of grieve and violence. It didn’t make me feel good after reading it but wow it packed a punch. The past and present merges with the living and the dead and the constant thread of choice (good choices and bad) pulls it all together.

The main character is a retired police detective wishing to rest living by the sea… But his retirement is restless… All his working life he had dealt with villains. After a few decades of that your faith in human nature is in the ground. It’s a premature burial, pre-dating your own. But he wanted to be a believer again, in something. He wanted to live in his wealth of minutes, the ones he had left anyhow. The secrets of the past and the present… He is tormented by his memories… He is besieged by misery on all sides… Mysteries of the past surface… Carnal sins of the clergy… That was the big thing. Father Joseph Byrne and Father Thaddeus Matthews, two jackals in a coop devouring little chickens. Filthy, relentless, feckless men who never paused a moment in their evil. Oh, he had known what was to be found there, in that pristine presbytery. Jackals, snakes, scorpions, monsters. It is easier to do evil hiding behind God.

I don’t suppose I’m alone in thinking the Irish have a way with words, that many are gifted storytellers and Sebastian Barry is firmly in that category. This is retired detective Tom Kettle’s story. He lives in an annex attached to a castle in Dalkey that has uninterrupted views of the sea. One evening his hermit like solitude is interrupted by two young detectives, Wilson and O’Casey who ask for Tom‘s expertise in an unsolved cold case. Their visit and the report they ask him to look at deeply unsettle Tom’s much sought for peace and tranquillity. This is further shattered when a young woman and her son move in next door who seeks his guidance and help. The novel is Tom‘s musings in which we learned a great deal about him, his wife June and their two children Winny and Joe. It is often said that a novel takes you on a journey and this one most certainly does and it’s far from an easy one. It covers ground that has been well trod but because it’s from this lovely kind man’s perspective it seems to hit you harder somehow. What we learn still has the capacity to shock you to the core yet it is also sensitively told. As you would expect from a writer of this calibre it is beautifully written. In places the language is poetic, the phrasing has originality and quirks. The novel is entertaining in places, amusing from time to time and then unbearably sad as you witness suffering and despair. It is extremely poignant, very moving with very powerful undercurrents and the end is the real gut punch. I love the atmosphere the author creates. He gives us Dalkey with the ever moving sea and its changing colour palette, the castle and its Annex, the vagaries of the Irish climate, there’s a ghostly vibe too and an air of elusive mystery that you try to grasp a hold of. Overall, another memorable and compelling novel. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Faber and Faber for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

I wanted to pick a book that felt deeply Irish - but not something too classic or outdated. Then the Booker Prize basically threw Sebastian Barry right in my face. I love Ireland, this little island on the edge of Europe, somehow produces an insane number of great writers. At first glance, the blurb and opening chapters made me think I was diving into a solid, traditional crime novel: an old case resurfaces. Retired detective Kettle gets a visit from 2 young Dublin cops. His past seems tangled up with the case - classic detective setup. I wouldn’t mind another “grizzled veteran solves one last mystery” story, but Sebastian Barry clearly has more up his sleeve. I tiptoed around what felt like the first trap in his storytelling. Then I realized - Kettle is an unreliable narrator. His memory’s falling apart, the timeline’s all over the place. Barry’s second trap starts to unfold, and it’s a classic literary move. Am I just picking apart his tricks? Or did he design it this way, letting me feel smug for spotting them before pulling the rug out from under me? Even with such a shaky narrator, the story slowly pieces together the real villain - and opens up one of the darkest chapters in Ireland’s religious history: the trauma caused by Catholic abuse and cover-ups. Kettle and his family live under that shadow their whole lives. Religion stole so much from Kettle. He was sexually abused as a child in an orphanage. His wife went through the same. Just when they try to claw their way into a cozy middle-class life, the darkness creeps back in. And when the fire of revenge finally consumes everything, I didn’t feel relief. In the absence of justice and divine intervention, what does morality even look like? Can we be our own judges? Should we turn to gods? I don’t have answers - just like Kettle, who couldn’t save the vulnerable, who gave up investigating abuse, who, as a cop, became complicit in a broken system. Fate keeps demanding more from this old detective. His daughter and son died years before he retired. In his lonely retirement, his daughter visits and chats with him - and I start wondering when I should trust the story - because on the next page, it’s revealed to be all in his head. The only thing left is a cinematic image: a teacup in the sink, maybe just used by his daughter. Her death is casually dropped during 1 of Kettle’s mental spirals. I was just basking in the warmth of their conversation, and then - a quiet line says she’s long gone. The fire goes out. I gasped. And then there’s this lingering suspicion I couldn’t shake: the kind neighbor and her child next door, hiding from an abusive husband - were they ghosts? Barry might’ve planted clues, since every narrative break seems to happen when Kettle wakes up from sleep. Why does Kettle’s story jump around in time? Maybe Barry wants us to feel the same disorientation trauma causes. Fragmented memories are how Kettle copes. We share his confusion and pain. At the same time, there’s a very real present-day investigation happening - Dublin police digging into an old case. The back-and-forth timelines might be Barry’s personal style, or just the effortless skill of a seasoned writer. I think he’s obsessed with the idea that “time is an illusion.” In The Secret Scripture, an older narrator says, “Everything has always been there, still unfolding, still happening.” For me, the whole story was just too heavy. Unnecessarily heavy. Like death is a word God forgot to swallow, always ready to drop. Even when I knew someone had died, the moment the details were revealed still hit like a punch. But maybe Barry is just showing us how brutal life in Ireland can be. Hurricanes, waves smashing cliffs, endless rain, and thorny gorse growing out of rocks - it’s the perfect backdrop for death. And gorse, once lit, burns fast and furious thanks to its oily richness. Barry doesn’t exaggerate the trauma of religion. Irish writers have exposed plenty of Catholic scandals. Claire Keegan’s Small Things Like These talks about the Magdalene laundries - where “fallen women,” unwed mothers, and those deemed morally unfit were locked away by nuns, forced into endless labor, abused, and erased. Babies were taken. Deaths went unnoticed. Society had already discarded them. It wasn’t until 1993 that a mass grave was found behind 1 of these laundries. The last one didn’t shut down until 1996. I only later learned that Sinéad O'Connor was sent to 1 as a teen. She said, “Just crying girls. Even children… Everyone cut off from the world… Some girls were raped at home and not believed…” No wonder she tore up the Pope’s photo on live TV. Kettle and his wife Jean never met their parents. I suspect their mothers were victims of the Magdalene system. Without family protection, they were easy prey for a society soaked in religion - becoming the next generation of victims. And maybe this whole manipulation of time is a kind of religious experience too. I won’t pretend to be an expert on time theory, but I want to circle back to this novel’s title Old God’s Time and quote William Faulkner’s take on it. In a 1957 talk at the University of Virginia, someone asked why he named his book Light in August, he said: ”In Mississippi, mid-August brings a few days that feel like fall is arriving. The air cools, the sky glows with a soft, transparent light - not of the present, but of ancient times. Maybe even from Greece, from Olympus, from some pastoral god or forest spirit. It only lasts a day or two. But it comes every year.” That August light, like Old God’s Time, carries a pagan, timeless essence. Kettle and Jean’s actions, and their son’s misunderstood healing work among Native Americans, all feel touched by an ancient divinity - brief, but powerful. I want to call this passage Barry’s own Light in August: ”How the great lid of cloud had been raised, as if all the country and sea beneath had now been properly slow-cooked, and how the veins of struggling sunlight dropped from the upper cloud now like leaking waterfalls, as if light itself were a celestial flood and couldn’t but fall under the rules of gravity, like all created things.” I realized all those indescribable moments I’ve had while hiking - those glimpses of something sacred - are right there on the page. These writers have captured what I never could, and handed it to us. I’m just grateful Ireland has given us such incredible storytellers. 4.8 / 5 stars

My first book by Barry! Ireland mid 90’s This story is haunting and bleak, just heartbreaking things have happened in the life of retired police officer Tom Kettle and also his wife and children. We see how lives were destroyed by the pedophile Catholic priests and how it effects the rest of the victims lives. So Tom is trying to live his retired life in a lean-to built on to a Victorian castle by the sea when two active duty young cops come knocking and want his help in a case from the 60’s .. about a murdered priest. Tom and his wife were both abused as children in orphanages in Ireland. The writing was sublime, as my goodreads friend Bianca stated in her review.. perfect word for it.. Will be picking up some of Barry’s other books in the future!

This is one incredibly sad story, heavy, complex and difficult to read, with the focus on child abuse by Catholic priests in Ireland and the impact on lives of some of those children who become adults. It’s also difficult to read because at times it’s hard to decipher what is true at the moment - stream of thoughts , past and present, not always sure which was past , present or even real . Yet , it’s so perfectly portrays trauma , loss , grief, loneliness , and thankfully a depth of love to lift the reader at times from the abyss of the darkness here .

Tragedy with the force of Macbeth. A grieving Irish policeman, Tom Kettle, has moved to new digs in Dalkey after the death of his wife. Tom is in thrall to a hideous bereavement. At the same time he's able to relive — somewhat delusively — his former happiness. He has been retired from the force for nine months, but now his old colleagues come to ask his help with a major case. Much of the detail of the case is still in the Tom's memory, faltering though it is. The case has to do with pedophilic Catholic priests. So, despite his personal grief he must now continue somehow this work that is rife with psychic risks. For his late wife, June, came from a religious orphanage where she was hideously raped by a priest for years. Sometime later that same priest is murdered. Tom's colleages suspect he is the killer. The story seems a little diffuse, but about halfway through all its disparate facts suddenly jigsaw together. The writing is spectacular! In the early going I was reminded of James Joyce's story "The Dead." The novel has that familiar sonority. But soon it becomes plain that Barry is in a league of his own. As Robert Gottlieb says in a jacket blurb, "he sounds like no one else.” Sebastian Barry's work has been a great new find for me. I plan to read many of his works. Let me also recommend his astonishing Days Without End.

5★ “He had not been, he did not wish to go, he was quite content just to gaze out. Just to do that. To him this was the whole point of retirement, of existence – to be stationary, happy and useless.” Retirement – happy and useless. It is raining fiercely outside, and Tom Kettle has been sitting cosy at home in his flat, which faces out to sea, watching the boats, and enjoying his solitude. He is reminiscing about his wife, his daughter, and his son. “It was four in the afternoon and night was creeping in to take everything away till only the weak lights of the lamps on Coliemore Harbour would bounce themselves a few yards out onto the water, speckling the darkling waves.” But someone has begun knocking on his door. Nobody ever knocks on his door, not in the nine months he has been glorying in his privacy. “He was beholden to no man, he had earned that. His pension was his gun, his weapon against work.” The knocking is louder, the doorbell rings, and he can just make out two figures through the glass. He recognises them immediately as the new fellows from his old station. Cups of tea all around and then, finally, they broach the subject. “‘It’s something that’s come up and he thought, the chief thought, it might be useful to hear your thoughts on it,’ said the detective, ‘and, you know.’ ‘Oh yes?’ said Tom, not uninterested, but all the same with a strange surge of reluctance and even dread – deep, deep down. ‘Do you know, lads, the truth is I have no thoughts – I’m trying to have none, anyhow.’ They both laughed.” The talk meanders, discussing the area where Tom lives now, how the two young men grew up and where, and as they exchange these intimacies, Tom’s mind meanders even more, worrying about what’s coming. The men say they have reports for him to read, but he says not now. The weather is far too bad for them to leave, so he offers to make Welsh rabbit. While he potters in the kitchen, we begin to get a sense of what his life has been like and why he may be stalling these men. The next day, he tries to put it out of his mind by walking to the ocean for a swim (which seems more like punishment than respite to me). “Scimitars of blunt wind flashed about everywhere, swiping at his hat, his hair, his heart. . . . A chill rain began, just for his benefit, he thought, oh it would, and soon made free with his coat collar, without a by your leave, and wet the back of his neck, just enough to put him in mortal dread of pneumonia. But by the time he had covered half the distance to the park at the top of the hill, here was the blessed sunlight, suddenly, the rain’s shy sister, not with any heat in it, but a measure of pleasing hope. He thought of those rare summer days when the whole land thereabouts would be oven-baked, every crevice and wide vista crammed with lovely, belligerent heat. Well, he was not there yet.” I imagine I can hear the Irish lilt in the words as they are written. It isn’t enough to say that Barry’s descriptions are evocative – you have to read them yourself. That is the overall tone and manner of the storytelling. Tom’s mind jumps from the happy times with June and the children when they were young, and then it suddenly sinks back into the extremely unhappy childhoods both he and June were trying to overcome. His childhood as an orphan left scars. “Sometimes his head was like a wild horse, without bit or rein. He couldn’t leave it to its own devices. He must be talking to himself, give himself good orders like an officer of a higher rank. A state of mind he had beheld in so many men who had been in orphanages and industrial schools in the army. They had been incarcerated among gradual and impossible torments. Yet oftentimes as a bewildered boy walked out the gates at sixteen, he might shed a different kind of tear, with the new fright of the unknown world before him. Up early, get your grub, obey your commands – the army was something of a tonic, and no war ever seemed to compare with what they had already endured. Nothing again as terrifying as the shadow of a dark-soutaned Brother by your bed, in the deep night, to drag you out either to lather you or f*ck you. No Malayan fighter, magnificent, fearsome and dark, ever as terrifying as the small shopkeeper’s son in his measly garb, given a coward’s power over you by virtue of being at least a grown man. No wonder they released the boys, like knackered greyhounds from the cage, at sixteen, before they gained the muscles and the strength to fell the Brothers with just and merciless blows.” Send them out the door before they’re too big to control, then for Tom, straight to the army to Palestine and later to Malaya. “First you had your dress of sweat, only then your uniform. There was never a soldier didn’t sweat in Malaya, there was no such creature.” The exceptional rifle skills he developed in the army stood him in good stead with the police recruiter, so there he stayed, a loyal policeman, for forty years. He does not want someone knocking on his door. He does not want to read the old police reports. He does not want to remember the bad old days. “In the old days, when wives were bloodied and beaten, you were not to go further than the front door. Ah yes. You could check if a person was still breathing, but no more. A child of the house could be lathered into a state of utter distress – you had to leave that alone too. You learned these rules off the station sergeant, off the tough detectives. The lowliest of men were kings of women.” He couldn’t possibly talk to today’s young police about such things. “Couldn’t say why the contents of those reports assailed him even before he could read them. Couldn’t read them, couldn’t in any sense read them. Under any circumstances read them.” The story of his family unfolds gradually, as Tom’s mind slides between reality, memory, imagination, and dreams. There is darkness and despair, but over all of that, is Tom’s undying love for June and Winnie and Joseph. At some point while reading this, I remembered that I had learned the term “kettle” in a mystery when someone found themselves “kettled” in a dead-end alley. It seems to be used in policing to mean “corral”, when they form a cordon around people for crowd control. I have no idea if the author intended this connection, but it seems apt. Tom Kettle has only ever wanted to cordon off the bad actors and protect people – the innocents – to keep them free from harm. All he wanted was love and justice and being with his family. I thoroughly enjoyed this interview that the author did in 2019 with another great Irish author, John Boyne, who is a favourite of mine. It was this interview that convinced I must read Barry. It’s a delight to listen to them both. https://www.rte.ie/culture/2019/0121/... Many thanks to NetGalley and Faber and Faber for the copy for review. I’m looking forward to reading more of Barry’s impressive, award-winning body of work.

Longlisted for the 2023 Booker Prize. This is only the second book of the list I have read and already I want it to win. For Tom Kettle the whole point of retirement is to be, “stationary, happy and useless”. He is happy with having nothing to do but “peel the plastic off cheese singles”. And he was for nine months. Then one day his blissful idleness is interrupted by two men in suits. He is surprised to find that they are two young detectives from his old division. Upon retirement, he had told his Superintendent that he would always be available for help. However, as we read on, we realize he is not happy. He has lost his loved ones, he is lonely, and, as he finds a length of rope and ties a noose around his neck, suicidal. We find that he has lost his wife and two children all in tragic circumstances. That he was a sniper in the war in Malaya. It would not be a stretch to say that Kettle has had a traumatic history. We find out the two detectives have an ulterior motive rather than just a pleasant visit. There is an unsold murder case from years ago in which Kettle may just be a suspect. This case from the past involves the murder of a priest and this in turn leads to a major theme of the novel. The sexual abuse of children by the Irish Catholic Priesthood and the cover up that enabled it to go on. The trauma that pervades the lives of those abused. The damage from even one heinous, evil act, that seeps into following generations, destroying lives long after the initial act was perpetrated. For the entirety of the novel the reader is left in the dark. The unreliability of Kettle’s memory only adds to the confusion. His memory, and even his sanity in question. The deterioration of his memory reminds me of Julian Barnes’ “The Sense of an Ending” It is the slow revealing of the narrative, and then its questionable reliability, due to Kettle’s memory and mental state, that make this novel hard to put down. That, and the fact that Barry’s prose is sublime. It is a pleasure to read the book on this strength alone. “The real answers to Fleming’s questions were not in his cranium, they existed elsewhere, in the great cloud of unknowing where all human stories congregate. An average life was half a million hours, and so what was the sum of every hour lived by every human person since the dawn of human time? And which of the lost stories was important above all the others?” “he was a pensioned ghost from the strange past, a pointless survivor, an old soldier of forgotten wars. A remnant, with a torn gansey for a soul” A brilliant novel!

I doubt I'll do this novel justice with this review but I'll try. Sebastian Barry is, admittedly, one of my favourite writers. His prose is a work of art. The words wind around you like a spell almost. I can lose myself in paragraphs, almost forgetting that there is in fact a story in there. And then, just as you're relaxing into it, he metaphorically whacks you round the back of the head with something so shocking you'd have to catch your breath. The first time he did this was at the end of A Long Long Way. He's managed this revelatory way of story telling in every book since. There is so much of a story that he reveals that you begin to get smug and think you know what's happened but in Old God's Time the shocks simply keep coming. It is certainly one of his more dreamlike stories. You're never sure what Tom Kettle is actually experiencing. There were times when I had to stop and go back a few paged to make sure I'd not missed something but then after carrying on reading all would be made clear. Tom is a fascinating character. A retired detective whose family are all gone, living in part of an old castle by the coast in well-heeled Dalkey. His memories weave their way in and out of the present making you unsure of what is real and what is not. However Tom's past has finally caught up with him with the arrival of two young detectives asking about his recollections on the death of a priest many years before. Sebastian Barry takes us on a journey through the past of Tom, his wife June and their children. It is not an easy read by any stretch of the imagination dealing, as it does, with child abuse, the priesthood, corruption in the Garda, death, love, grief and fear. This novel covers so many issues you'd expect it to be quite hard work but Sebastian Barry has such a way with language that it does not feel that way at all. Highly recommended to any Barry fans or those who prefer their books to say something. Truly wonderful.

I've long wished to read a novel by Sebastian Barry and somehow not got to one until now. This is a slow burn, introspective, literary read, of a man in decline, in the 9th month of his retirement from the Irish police force, in his late 60's. He has relocated to an annexe of an old castle like building on the sea and rarely has contact with anyone, though he is aware of his elderly landlord weeding the garden and a young woman with a child in the turret of the same building. His thoughts are of his wicker chair, his view, his peaceful existence and the joy of the privilege he had to love his wife June, who loved him in equal measure. Over the course of the next weeks he relives the memories of being with his wife, in intimate detail and we develop a sense that this luck was not something either of them expected, given their own rough beginnings, both abandoned as babies or small children. His nostalgic meanderings are disturbed by a visit by two young policemen working a case against a priest, and looking into the cold case of another murdered 20 years ago. They want to know what he remembers from that time, as it was a case he worked on. What a thing to bring to your old friend's door. A new peril of cold cases that he had never foreseen. Enough time goes by and it as if old things never happened. Things once fresh, immediate, terrible, receding away into old God's time, like the walkers walking so far along Killiney Strand that, as you watch them, there is a moment when they are only a black speck, and then they're gone. Maybe old God's time longs for the time when it was only time, the stuff of the clockface and the wristwatch. The visits awaken old memories and feelings, going all the way back to his early days in the army, a year in Palestine and then in Malaya, where he was a sniper. The slow revelation of his past, to do with his job and his family, his son and daughter, his wife and their own experiences as children create an intrigue as he alludes to events that take time to be revealed, and his mind sometimes makes those memories feel like events happening in real-time. Sometimes he awakens and realises it was a dream, other times he realises it was a form of hallucination. But he was obliged to believe it. Because in the first instance a witness should be believed. A lot of mischief and mischance had arisen from not believing witnesses. Rejecting out of hand. Poor soul standing in front of you, spilling the dreadful beans, and it not sounding likely. But oftentimes the unlikely was the truth, as you might find out, in the end, when it was too late. He felt he should believe - believe himself. We read and we are in his mind trying to decipher what is real and what is imagined or desired. At a certain point it doesn't really matter, except that the two young policemen may suspect he is implicated in something. Far from being depressing or exhausting, given the burden of what he has lived through, there is a sense of gratitude for the gift of a shared love he had with June and pride he has in his children. It is a book that is worth immersing in due to its dream-like reality, an ideal weekend read. Behind the plot is a seething rage at the years long refusal to follow up with child abuses nor charge priests suspected of child abuse, men covering the despicable deeds of other men, of one type of power enabling another, predators against the weak and helpless and the long term psychological distress this trauma has inflicted on hundreds of thousands of children, not talked about but passed on through their own DNA, becoming a form of collective trauma of a generation(s). The lack of redemption for victims, the theft of their freedom, of their peace of mind, the deep wounds that remain, that continue to fester, to destroy souls. It was up to him now to know less about times and details and more about the moiling mysteries of the human heart. Things happened to people, and some people were required to life great weights that crushed you if you faltered just for a moment. It was his job not to falter. But every day he faltered. Every day he was crushed, and rose again the following morn like a cartoon figure. Setting the novel in this man's twilight years takes a dramatic subject and allows it to be reflected on in slow paced, methodical way that combines the experiences people go through and witness, the effects and consequences that they continue to live with and attempt to overcome or heal from, or take revenge for and the aftermath, what survives. Brilliantly written and rendered, thought provoking, holding its threads of hope and faith in the power of genuine love.

Enough time goes by and it’s as if old things never happened. Things once fresh, immediate, terrible, receding away into old God’s time, like the walkers walking so far along Killiney Strand that, as you watch them, there is a moment when they are only a black speck, and then they’re gone. Maybe old God’s time longs for the time when it was only time, the stuff of the clockface and the wristwatch. But that didn’t mean it could be summoned back, or should be. Oof, but I love Sebastian Barry. Old God’s Time tells the story of a retired police detective — taking his due rest at a seaside town outside Dublin — and although this Tom Kettle has settled into his solitary routine of walking to the shops and watching the tides, when two city detectives come asking for his help with a cold case, Kettle is forced to confront old ghosts and demons; even if his memory isn’t quite what it used to be. As Kettle recalls how he met his quirky and beautiful wife June — and the joy they had in raising their two children Winnie and Joe — this, at times, had the feel of a heart-warming love story; but as he also recalls stories from his and June’s time as orphans raised in church-run institutes, this is a too-familiar story of loneliness and abuse and what it takes to survive such. What makes this magical storytelling is Kettle’s muddled memory: It’s often unclear whether he’s confused or fantasising, intentionally misdirecting or unwittingly protecting his wounded heart, and while the reader wants to take this decent man at his word, interactions with other characters force one to rethink what one’s been told, repeatedly. And through it all, the same situations repeat themselves — over time and across distances from a seaside castle in Dalkey to a New Mexico pueblo — and the question is repeatedly asked: What would you do to protect a child? And also: In God’s old time, just how is “justice” served? I smiled, I nodded; I cried and I gasped: I could ask for nothing more. He stared at the rumpled sheaf, recognising all too well the very colour of the paper, the typed-out parts, and the long gospel of whatever they incorporated executed in a sober black ink. Paperwork, the policeman's penance. He had no desire, not even a smidgen of it, to take the documents. He felt the great rudeness of his hesitation. They were only boys. Well, Wilson might be forty. A grizzled face, really, with a little scar above his left eye. A childhood wound maybe. We all have our childhood wounds, thought Tom. After a long and (somewhat) celebrated career with the Gardaí, Tom Kettle could be forgiven if he declined to put his retirement on hold after only nine months to help his old squad with a notorious cold case: but with advances in DNA evidence, and a strong sense of duty, Kettle decided to dress himself “with care” one morning and present his Travel Pass to a ticket agent at the local train station in order to make his way into Dublin. Nearly immediately we learn that things aren’t exactly as they seem to be, but between Kettle’s confusion about the present and the revelation of clear memories from the past, a life is eventually described of a man who is decent and caring, and undeserving of the pain he has suffered. Old God’s Time is set in the “present” of the 1990s, and not only does this allow June to be presented as a free-spirited anti-war hippie, but Tom’s career saw him dealing with car bombs, returning runaway children to the notorious laundries and orphanages, and being forced to allow the Archbishop to deal as he chose with the hard evidence of predatory priests. Ah, but the times have changed: there’s a fragile peace afoot, the Church’s grasp has been loosened, and a man’s toothbrush might hold the key to events thought buried in the sands of time. If only poor old Tom Kettle was more clear about the past…and the present. He didn’t care, at the core of the thing, he didn’t care a jot for himself. His ancient burden of ‘a sense of justice’, a heavy bloody thing that would break a civilian’s back, he knew, was not a burden he could ever put down, even now. Even now, as something gnawed at his own safety, his peace, like a monstrous rat, that was the tune that rose first of all things to his lips. Find out the truth and penetrate the crime. Bring the guilty to justice. Barry brings the seaside setting to beautiful life: the light on the water; the changing skies throughout the days and the seasons. He also, for a shortish novel, packs in a lot of detail — from thirty years of Kettle’s history to the intersecting lives that all seem to circle through similar experiences — and as murky as the plot can feel with Kettle’s fantasies and memory gaps, it all propels to a shocking and fitting conclusion that brought me to tears. This was an experience — precisely suited to my tastes — and I can’t give fewer than five stars.

I finished this one last night, and I feel like I am still unable to move on. What a devastating (and infuriating) story. I’m shook.

Highly aware this has been a bit of a divisive read for people, but for this reader it was MASTERFUL. Admittedly my response to this novel is supported by my high level of tolerance for bleakness, because this is a quintessential bleak, Irish novel. The narration of this story about the ripples of trauma through time is complex. The unreliability of Tom Kettle as narrator and the shifts between the present and his cluttered and hazy recollections of the past keep what is really happening in the distance for much of the novel. For me, this added to the power of the concluding third of the novel that really brings these threads together. Barry has constructed a dark world, one where trauma is significant in scale and around every trauma. The expertly constructed prose and complex storytelling tells a compelling, moving story about how these experiences take hold of our lives. Excellent stuff.

This is my first novel by Sebastian Barry, and although I'm sad that I've only discovered his writing now, I can't wait to read everything he's published. His lyrical prose is exquisite, and the stream of consciousness third person point of view allow us to become Tom – to feel what he’s feeling, to remember what he remembers and to sometimes get confused between what’s real and what’s not. This is “…a story of atrocities…” and if not written by a master I think the slow reveal of Tom's heinous and heart-wrenching memories would be overwhelming. But brimming with beautiful imagery, compassion and flashes of humour, Old God’s Time is a powerful story about the effect of trauma and loneliness on a person’s mind. "He was clearly going mad. But he had read somewhere that the truly mad would never know they were mad. He knew he was mad. Was that a proof of sanity?"

Gorgeous writing involving an incredibly difficult emotional topic. Triple the content warning. Made it onto the Booker Prize longlist. After reading how Sebastian Barry writes, I am hooked.

Newly retired detective Tom Kettle is living out his final years in Daleky, an affluent suburb of Dublin overlooking the wild unpredictable Irish sea….”he was quite content just to gaze out. Just to do that. To him this was the whole point of retirement, of existence- to be stationary, happy and useless”... His life takes a rather unexpected turn when he receives an uninvited visit from 2 of his old colleagues, dispatched by former boss Chief Fleming. It is thought that Tom might be of assistance in helping to solve an historic case in which he had direct involvement…..”I’ll send you out to Tom Kettle, good sane clear headed Tom, with a whole citadel, a museum of experience in his head, he’ll set this to rights, give us a heads-up, a way forward, a good steer, a helping hand”..... What follows is one of the most heart wrenching stories I have ever read, brought to life in such a lyrical and emotional way by the much revered author Sebastian Barry. Tom is a quiet man with a sad past that is slowly revealed to the reader as the novel progresses. This is a book that deals with the legacy of abuse within the church, this is a book about memory and our ability or not to recall events from the past, this is a book that deals with the human desire and need for love, but above all it is an emotional ride as painful thoughts and long forgotten events emerge to disrupt and disturb this quiet man in his final years…..”Things happened to people, and some people were required to lift great weights that crushed you if you faltered just for a moment. It was his job not to falter”...Towards the end of the novel, Tom has cause to notice his neighbour Ronnie McGillicuddy a cellist who could often be heard practicing. Accepting an invite to visit, Tom is at once transported to another dimension by the virtuosos musical skill……what follows made me cry…..”Ronnie McGillicuddy sawed his cello into sweetness, into a thousand sweetnesses, an old Jewish tune being injected into Tom, injected into Ronnie himself - swaying and even muttering , like a lunatic, a poor assailed person, you would think, away with the fairies. They were both away with the fairies and June was alive, she was alive, beautiful and wise, and she would always be there, bursting with life, calm as any old painted Madonna, as long as he did not open his eyes. He lifted both his hands and reached out to hold that longed-for face. To hold it, the soft cheeks, the dark skin, to hold it,to hold it. Many thanks to the good people at net galley for a copy of this delightful novel in return for an honest review, and that is what I have written. Highly recommended.

Can a child ever really know their mother and can a mother ever really know her child? Though we're made to feel there should be a natural, inextricable bond here it's seldom ever so simple. It certainly isn't for Antara, the narrator of Avni Doshi's heart-aching and intensely thoughtful novel “Burnt Sugar”. As an adult she finds herself in the tricky situation of caring for her mother Tara who is showing signs of dementia. But Antara seldom felt cared for as a child when her mother abandoned her unhappy arranged marriage, joined a religious commune, had a passionate affair with an unpredictable artist and spent some time living as a beggar on the street. Given their turbulent history together, Antara naturally feels ambivalent about being her mother's carer and confesses in the novel's opening line “I would be lying if I said my mother's misery has never given me pleasure.” Painful emotions run deep throughout this narrative where Antara is haunted by her past and because of this burden struggles to negotiate her relationships with her husband Dilip, her often absent father and her mother in law. I felt intensely involved in this novel which asks poignant questions about the bonds of family and the nature of memory. Read my full review of Burnt Sugar by Avni Doshi on LonesomeReader

This is the kind of book that would be a dream to analyze in a classroom setting. It's a deceptively simple premise, but there is so much to unpack here. Don't be fooled by its 229 page length. This ain't a breezy read.

I have no words (but here are some words anyway). I am a bit overwhelmed by just how nuanced, emotional, and excellent this novel is. One of the best books I have ever read, constituting a toxic relationship that is so thought-provoking and devastating that I will never forget it. Incredible. Must read.

From the first line of this novel, I already knew I would love this book! “ I would be lying if I say my mother’s misery has never given me pleasure”. The story is about the relationship between Tara and her adult daughter, Antara. The story is told in Antara’s point of view and tells the story of the present as her mother is slowly losing her memory, and the past as Antara recounts the trauma of being raised by a mother who abandons her marriage and neglects her as she joins an ashram and devotes her life to the spiritual leader. The writing is raw, the language is at times shocking, but told in a voice that is courageous and fearless. I enjoyed this witty and dark exploration of the complex relationships not just between mother-daughter, but also the ambivalence of motherhood, being a wife, a woman in a patriarchal culture, and being seen as who you really are. Fantastic read I enjoyed! Thank you @booksparks and The Overlook Press for the gifted book. All opinions are my own.

A ruthless, compulsive novel exploring the limits of memory. The core of this story is centered around a mother and daughter relationship. It pushes against the expectations and failures of familial love and the unspoken cruelties of caregiving in the wake of illness. Cults! India! Betrayal! Food! Identity! I loved it.

The years of revision Avni Doshi is said to have spent on the manuscript for this book are apparent in this tightly formed book where every sentence counts. The story of a mother and daughter as the mother descends into dementia and their historically fraught relationship is utterly compelling as well as unsettling. Mother hood and madness, art and science are all part of a novel that makes you think and question all the way through. I can’t quite believe this is a debut and will be eagerly picking up anything else Avni Doshi writes in the future.

The first thing that stands out about Cursed Bunny is Bora Chung’s fluency in the language of the grotesque. There are plenty of jarring images, beginning on the first page, that challenge and horrify. But the grotesque is always in service of the themes Chung explores - womanhood, capitalism, patriarchy, gaslighting, and others. Each entry in this collection is a fully realized story unto itself, showing Chung’s mastery of the form as her work shocks and horrifies and lodges viscerally in one’s memory.

Cursed Bunny is on relatively new press Honford Star , who specialize in translating literature from East Asia. They are a reader’s dream: They employ East Asian artists to design their covers, and the books themselves are published in East Asia and they are robust. Plus there’s French flaps (I can’t resist those) If the aesthetics of the book are the only thing of quality, think again; Cursed Bunny, is without any doubt, THE best short story collection I have read in a long time. South Korea’s Bora Chung’s short stories are brimming with horror, fairy tale elements and great doses of weirdness. This is a world where heads emerge from toilets, orphans acquire unknown superpowers, rabbits cause financial ruin and foxes bleed gold. Like all great stories, there’s a lot of meaning contained in the strangeness. Generally when Bora Chung’s characters become greedy for power, money or social gain they will suffer. Badly. Since these stories are structured like fairy-tales it makes a lot of sense that there is a moral tale embedded within the text. These stories will make your eyes pop out with horror, make you shift uncomfortably and wonder at Bora Chung’s infinite creativity. There’s a craft to writing an awe inspiring short story and it’s definitely present here. Each story is perfect, they are unique and I highly doubt that there’s anyone writing short pieces of this standard and brain warping quality. I am a person who doesn’t really like short story collections because of the inconsistencies. In fact I usually make it a habit to single out the highlights. There’s absolutely no need with Cursed Bunny. Each and every story is perfect. I was enthralled and easily sucked into Bora Chung’s demented universe. Also kudos to translator Anton Hur for making these stories available to the English speaking world. I personally don’t like forcing people to read books but I will break that rule – do invest in these stories. It’s totally worth it.

As so often happens, going back through this book a second time (this time with a focus on the writing), I've changed my mind and my rating, bumping it up to a five. full post here: http://www.oddlyweirdfiction.com/2022... I will just get this out of the way up front: I loved this book from the first story on down through the last, at which point I was so sorry that it was over. I hadn't read any reviews of Cursed Bunny before reading it, so I had absolutely no idea what to expect when I bought the book last year. Just a short while ago the nominees for the Booker International longlist were announced, and when I saw Cursed Bunny on that list, I grabbed it off my shelf, read it and fell in love. It is the kind of book that once read stays with you for the longest time. And let me say this up front as well -- Anton Hur did an incredible job translating Chung's work. Not that I read Korean, but I do know a great translation when I see one. The cover blurb reveals that the author "uses elements of the fantastic and surreal to address the very real horrors and cruelties of patriarchy and capitalism in modern society," which is true, but these stories also take a look at the close connection between power, abuse and subjugation in many forms. Cursed Bunny, as also noted on the blurb, moves through and incorporates a range of different genres, "blurring the lines between magical realism, horror, and science fiction." There is also more than a touch of dark humor at work here as well. After a while, it starts to dawn on you that the characters in all of these stories seem to accept the strangeness or the absurdities of events happening in their respective, various worlds as just part of ordinary life, a factor that makes each and every story work and work well. The first three stories are great examples of how this is so, also setting the tone for what's about to come next. They also impart to the reader a very physical sense of uneasiness and downright unstoppable dread that lingers through the last page. This book is definitely not for the squeamish, and won't be for everyone since there is plenty of horror and plenty of trauma to be experienced here, but I have to say that while I found myself squirming any number of times, neither the violence nor the horror in this book can be labeled as gratuitous in any fashion. The entire book is an example of quality work that doesn't let up, and sometimes some of the worst anxieties or experiences that people must endure lend themselves to using horror/dark fiction as the perfect vehicles for relating them to others. In writing her stories this way, the author also forces the reader sit up and take notice of what's around them. As noted in an article in The Korean Times, the "inexplicably frightening and bizarre elements" she uses "remind the audience of the very real horror and cruelty that exists in the world." These stories are enigmatic and most certainly require concentration from the reader, but I'm used to that element being part and parcel of reading weird fiction so there was no problem there. Cursed Bunny is also beautifully and intelligently written, its pull so intense that I didn't ever want to put it down. Highly recommended times infinity -- it's insanely good.

Whoops, forgot to say I finished this. This short story collection made me feel like a sociopath because it didn’t scare me. Maybe it’s because I used to read a lot of horror back in the day, but I kept wanting this to go just a little further. But damn, this collection is great. Atmospheric, grotesque, and imaginative. This book is the real deal.

A great collection of short stories in a variety of styles from some that are myth or fairytale like, some body horror, fantasy and sci-fi. The best for me was the final story ‘Reunion’ a ghost story about trauma.

Long Listed for the Booker 2022 I am stunned after listening to the audio of “Nightcrawling: A Novel” by Leila Mottley. If you enjoy a good audio, I cannot recommend this audio highly enough. Narrator Joniece Abbott-Pratt gives life to the narrator, Kiara, who tells us her story, in her own voice, as she struggles to survive on her own. Leila Mottley began writing this story when she was 17 years old. In 2015 when she was a young teenager in Oakland, there was a 2015 court case in which the Oakland Police Department was accused of sexually exploiting a teenager and then covering it up. Mottley, in her author’s notes, states that Kiara is pure fiction, Kiara’s life is nonfiction. Mottley wanted to give voice to the girls, women, trans, boys who have been victims of violence, especially black and brown women. She states that a 2010 study found that police sexual violence is the 2nd most reported instance of police misconduct. As our world comes to terms with police brutality regarding men of color, the violence against women are neglected in the press. Mottley shows how it begins, how the victims have little or no choices. She used the research she had done on the 2015 court case along with numerous, lesser known, cases for this story. She has done such a fine job, that she is now the youngest author nominated for the Booker Prize award. Why read/listen to this story? Well, Mottley deftly shows how a young, disenfranchised girl, who wants a good, clean life, can fall prey to violence. With no or minimal adult help, these girls are attempting to negotiate supporting themselves and doing right. Furthermore, Mottley is Oakland’s youth poet laureate, and her prose are outstanding. In a scene with her lawyer, Marsha, who is trying to get her reading for a court appearance, Kiara thinks, “Marsha done looked up ‘how to be your best self’ and found some Cosmo article about actualization.” In fact, one of the best reasons to read/listen to the novel is that Mottley shows us how a sassy, cheeky young girl says things that are not in alignment with their thoughts. Kiara has a good head on her shoulders and thinks, plans, and strategizes how to earn money, and take care of family. But if an adult in authority asks her a question, her retorts do not reflect her intelligence. She’s learned that is the only way to survive, to be sassy. I am a 65 year old white lady, and in listening to this story, I learned what it’s like to be a young black girl on the gritty streets of a major U.S. city. Mottley wisely told Kiara’s story with minimal graphic and horrific scenes. She didn’t need those scenes to get her message out. She allows the reader’s imagination to take themselves into that pit of hell. This is a story of an epidemic that privileged people of our country rarely see. I highly recommend this illuminating story.

4.5 rounded up Oakland, Ca. Seventeen year old jobless Kiara (Kia) Johnson lives with her brother at the Regal-Hi. It sounds glamorous but its so far from that in its squalid, run down, high rent grubbiness. She lives with her brother Marcus who has delusions of making it big as a rapper which means no money is coming at all. She's worried, she's frustrated, she has to get a job but she has no resume so she's trapped. She does what she has to do in order to survive, in other words, nightcrawling. The inevitable vulnerability leads to her becoming ensnared by those more powerful than herself. This is based on a true story of a major scandal of sexual exploitation by members of the Oakland PD, though the character of Kiara is entirely fictional. This novel stuns you in several ways. First of all, the way it's written is amazing as the quality of the prose is outstanding. The author makes you feel what Kia feels and I can hear her voice via the dialogue. She's a survivor with a heart of gold. Secondly, you are stunned by the horrifying and shocking abuse, how a human being is treated like trash and is powerless to do anything about it as the system is stacked against her. The injustice angers and sickens you. Thirdly, the author started writing this book when SHE WAS 17!!! What a phenomenal talent has just emerged, I'm in awe of her literary ability as it's so accomplished. This is a debut of raw honesty, it's very powerful as not only does it demonstrate the grinding poverty and mouth to mouth existence that some people have to live day to day but it reveals the rotten underbelly and corruption of the justice system and how it's manipulated by those who should know better. It's obviously a very dark topic but it's extremely moving, compelling and devastatingly heartbreaking. I really like the way it ends - there is some hope, I have my fingers crossed. Overall, I can't deny this is a tough read but it's one I recommend for the sheer quality of the writing and with what it reveals. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Bloomsbury Publishing PLC for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

There's a geeky pleasure in discovering connections between authors so when Ruth Ozeki described in her speech after winning this year's Women's Prize for Fiction that her student Leila Mottley's “Nightcrawling” was just published, it made me even more eager to read this debut novel. It was a delight to find that it's a book worthy of all the buzz it's been getting as it is so moving, impactful and skilfully written – especially for an author who has only just turned twenty years old. It follows the story of Kiara who is seventeen at the start of the novel and lives with her brother Marcus in a run-down apartment complex in Oakland, California. They're in danger of being evicted because of rent increases and it entirely falls to Kiara to gather the money since her father is dead, her mother is absent and Marcus is more focused on trying to launch a music career rather than finding paid work. Since she didn't finish high school and doesn't have a resume, her options are extremely limited and she becomes a prostitute. However, when she's cornered by the police she's ensnared in a situation where she is frequently taken advantage of and abused. The narrative steeps us in Kiara's perspective and journey through this harrowing situation in a way which is so vivid and striking, but also artfully illuminates wider issues concerning the danger and violence experienced by many Black girls and Black women in America. Part of what makes this such an arresting tale is that it is based on a real case from recent years and it's one that Mottley read about when she was Kiara's age. Being a character so close to her age and one who is from the same city gives a real authenticity to the voice of the character. She's entirely fictional but the way the author portrays her complex psychology and development makes her multi-dimensional. More than this it's written in a way which highlights the many issues at stake which could lead a young American girl to being the victim of such an atrocious crime. We are entirely locked in Kiara's point of view yet can see from what she witnesses how the police systematically abuse their power and the difficulty of making the perpetrators accountable. Through her struggle we're made aware why so many cases of abuse go unreported and aren't brought to justice and how there isn't enough support for the most vulnerable citizens in this country. Additionally, the story shows how the innate intelligence and artistic talent of many young people isn't developed because of the circumstances they struggle under and the concept that if something isn't profitable it isn't worth pursuing. Read my full review of Nightcrawling by Leila Mottley at LonesomeReader

“A NEW YORK TIMES WRITER TO WATCH - A dazzling novel about a young Black woman who walks the streets of Oakland and stumbles headlong into the failure of its justice system--the debut of a blazingly original voice that "bursts at the seams of every page and swallows you whole" (Tommy Orange, best-selling author of There There).” Did you know Leila Mottley wrote Nightcrawling when she was seventeen years old? In this powerful tribute to her city and inspired by true events involving corruption, Nightcrawling is the story of teenager, Kiara Johnson. Her father has passed away, her mother is in a halfway house, and her brother, who promised to protect her, is pursuing his music dreams; this leaves Kiara alone with rent coming due. Finding a job at seventeen is not easy. Kiara lands in a very dark place trying to survive. Not only is she taking care of herself, but she’s also caring for an often alone, too, nine-year-old Trevor. Nightcrawling is penned flawlessly with emotion in its every precise word. In the author’s note, Leila Mottley shares that while Kiara is fictional, the true story is not, and in turn, it’s not just the story of one young girl exploited, but many, many times over. An urgent story addressing the adultification of Black girls and the failures of the justice system. Let us listen to this powerful voice and be inspired for what is next. I received a gifted copy. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

4.5* stars, but I rounded this one up to 5 because I HIGHLY recommend! My God this book was engrossing. I couldn't put it down. This story felt so authentically captured. It never felt far-fetched, hyperbolic, or ingenuine. You can tell that Leila Mottley is telling this story having grown up in Oakland and seeing this life in real time. Her writing is excellent overall. I only took off half of a star because I personally wasn't looooving that sometimes her writing style sounds like spoken word poetry to me hahahah. A lot of times it did work for me, but sometimes it grated on me a little.

I’ll write a review at some point but I know it won’t do this book justice. Highly recommend.

2022 Best Books of the Year [#03 of 11]

Wow!! This book!! The writing was so vivid that I felt like I was there up close watching it happen. It’s fiction based on a real investigation of a police ring in Oakland, CA that exploited underage sexworkers. It was told from the POV of Kia a 17 year old girl who by circumstance was forced to sell herself to make money. It is just so well written I eagerly await more writing from Leila Mottley.

As soon as I found out how old this author was when she commenced writing this book I was astounded, her maturity beyond her years to tackle such a delicate and difficult subject matter made this book even more outstanding. I wish Leila all the success in the world for her bravery in exposing the unspoken crimes that go unpunished towards the often forgotten and misrepresented sector of society. Her voice is an important addition to the contemporary world of fiction. A star is born.

OMG this book.... Be warned, this is not a happily ever after story, this is not a happy ending story, there is very little happiness between these covers. It is raw and real in a way that makes my skin crawl. After their father's death and their mother being committed 15 year old Kiara and her 18 year old brother Marcus were on their own. Two years later and they have both had to drop out of school, but working together they've managed to scrape by so far. When Marcus quits his job to pursue fame as a rapper things begin to crumble. Rent has increased, there is a 9 year old boy in their complex who's mother abandoned him and with no help from Marcus, Kiara desperately seeks work to keep them from getting evicted. While searching and being turned down for every job she asks about, Kiara ends up at a strip club that would love to hire her but not until she turns 18 (which doesn't help at all right now). Unable to help, a kind bartender offers her free drinks so she stays to have a few. Before long she is drunk and being led away by a strange man who has his way with her on the roof, hands her $500 and leaves. Prostitution becomes the job Kiara needed, and she was able to make it work for awhile, (it's just skin after all). It isn't too long until she is picked up by the police, but not arrested, instead taken to a party and used by half of the police force. They keep calling her back but start paying in "protection" instead of the cash she so desperately needed; she's too broke and scared to say no. Her world breaks open even further when her name surfaces in an investigation that exposes her as a key witness in a massive scandal within the Oakland Police Department. Forced to tell her story, exposing the police officers involved Kiara is eventually convinced by her attorney that speaking the truth will set her free and protect other young girls in the future. But, what will be the outcome when one young girl stands up against many men of power?

2022 Booker Prize Longlist Challenge NIGHTCRAWLING by Leila Mottley I rarely get emotional when reading novels. Movies and TV open the taps quite easily, but with books I tend to be quite tight lipped even when caught up in the emotional waves of a compelling novel. A LITTLE LIFE is one of my favourite novels and although I was moved and upset, my eyes remained dry. Leila Mottley’s NIGHTCRAWLING managed to break the seal, the anger and frustration overwhelming me. NIGHTCRAWLING is a remarkable work, one that is amazing not only because of who the author is but what she has managed to create, a novel that is expertly plotted, beautifully written and one that manages to expresses the deep anger of a generation of Black youth constantly victimized by the police and criminal justice systems and speaks to the specific experiences of Black and Brown women, whose vulnerability and experiences of state violence is often muted and not centred in the stories and accounts we do read about. In the mid 2010s, Bay Area police are accused of sexually exploiting an underage girl, causing uproar in the community. But while officialdom worry about the negative impact the disgusting acts toward the girl may impact police relations with Black communities, Mottley wondered about the experience of the young sex worker, her story, her struggles, and how she would have navigated the circumstances so beyond her control. So emerges Kiera, a fictionalized version of this girl, living in an Oakland that still has echoes of radical Black politics and culture but is being overrun by increased gentrification and housing costs designed to push out working class communities from their homes. Effectively orphaned, Kiera turns to sex work to survive and becomes entangled in a police ring that uses her and threatens her if she doesn’t cooperate. When the story of police abuse becomes public, Kiera becomes the centre of attention and doesn’t know how she will keep herself and the ones she loves safe. While NIGHTCRAWLING does not delve into experiments in form and language that often defines Booker-type books, the novel is perfectly plotted and written in a prose that is both gripping and beautiful, conveying Kiera’s circumstances and emotional tension in a way I found believable and maddening. Beyond that, what felt most impressive is how the novel manages to capture a rage and frustration of a generation of Black youth whose formative years have been marked by Black Lives Matter and the George Floyd killing. Although Mottley’s youth has left many in awe that she has managed to create such a formidable piece of literature, her youth I think also brings with it an experience and a voice that an older writer would not be able to capture. An extraordinary novel. A great audiobook. The book of the year for me so far.

Very, very tough read but an absolutely amazing book! The writing is so extremely well done and I cannot believe that the writer started writing this book when she was only 17!! This is one of those books that will change you as a person. Definitely heartbreaking and unforgettable. This book itself is fiction, but is inspired by true events; I feel sick knowing that things like this happen. I just cannot understand how!?! The story deals with some very difficult topics such as poverty, sex work, police brutality, sexual abuse, racial and gender inequities and so much more. The main character, Kia, is such a strong and determined person who still does not allow all of the injustices she faces cause her to give up or lose her ability to love. I have no idea how that would even be possible. You can't help but root for her even when you know the hand she was dealt in life leaves her so completely and utterly powerless. It really gives you an inside view of the day to day struggle to survive that results from poverty and how you really can't understand any decisions made until you are actually in that position and able to feel what they are feeling in that moment. I am so angry at both society and the justice system for letting things like this happen. It is really just so hard to comprehend. I 100% recommend this book, but please keep in mind that it deals with some very heavy but important topics. I think Leila did an amazing job and can't wait to see what else she comes out with; will definitely be following her future work. I received a copy of this book through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.

Leila Mottley has taken a story that blazed on local news several years ago, and with an amazing flash of brilliance, turned it into this incredible novel. There are several layers of Oakland, but Mottley has Ki, her main character, doing what she can and using what she has to survive on the East side. As I live in Oakland, I feel it's important to read of the city through the eyes of Ms. Mottley and of Tommy Orange as well in order to fully realize this place. Astonishingly, Ms. Mottley has just had her 20th birthday, wrote this in her late teens. The debut of a truly original artist.

one of the most incredible books I’ve ever read. Fuck

** spoiler alert ** If we stand on the backs of Black women, who will carry them? Who will water us as we are constantly planting seeds and watering others? Nightcrawling by Leila Mottley was created due to police departments in the Bay Area like the Oakland police department who sexually exploited young women only to cover it up and leave these young women broken, abused, used, and silenced. Nightcrawling tells a story just like this. Where there is no happy ending, Leila gives meaning to the main character Kiara. You get to see her, hear her, understand her sacrifices, and ache because this young girl had to become a woman and diminish her childhood to survive not only for herself but for others around her. At just 17, Kiara has lived many times over. Set in East Oakland at the Regal-Hi apartments, Kiara introduces us to poverty, rent increase, and Oakland’s gentrification. Kiara lost her father to the system multiple times only to have him released to his death. A mother whose need for her father causes an aching that results in sudden death, a suicide attempt, and her mother in prison. All that Kiara has left is her older brother Marcus, her 10-year-old neighbor Trevor, and her best friend Ale’. Kiara’s mother instinct kicks in as she becomes a high school dropout with no resume, rent due, and her neighbor Trevor is hungry and without food because his mother has been consumed by drugs. Kiara goes as far as having a funeral day with her best friend. A way to attend services to get free food and clothing left behind while others are mourning. Being unable to find work due to age and lack of a resume, Kiara is now facing her eviction and Trevor’s. Her older brother no longer holding her hand because he wants to live a false dream, but Kiara just wants to ease the hardship. A frustrating day turned into Kiara being drunk and losing her virginity to a white man who thinks she a prostitute. After payment, Kiara calculates how to make a living by becoming a streetwalker. 17 and dressed up, Kiara walking the streets for money leads her on a twisty slope filled with men and police officers degrading her body, her spirit, and mind, but her bills are paid. These same cops start to bring fear through pointing guns at her during sex, threatening to arrest her, and often ignoring paying her because their payment is in protection. As the underground corruption of the police force starts to leak, Kiara not only struggles with the decision of coming forward but must also deal with her everyday life and facing her broken mother. Balancing friendship and love, Kiara is stuck between being a mother and a child. Nightcrawling is not a book to ease your thoughts. Nightcrawling is the means to survive in a world that makes you feel smaller by the second. The shift in structure, accountability, and access. Kiara has 17 years of life but has been aged in mere months. The mental strength it took to tell herself it is just a body. It is just sex. To face the crooked police system with the odds already against her, Kiara finds a way to survive and be loved.

Winner of the Nero Book Award 2025 Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2025 This is such a moody, beautifully atmospheric book about a young man on the verge of adulthood, living with his 36-year-old mother and working as a shanker, a trade he learned from his grandfather. His name is Thomas Flett, he hasn't seen much of the world outside his hometown of Longferry, and never met his father - his mother's life has always been restricted by the repercussions of her teenage pregnancy (it's apparently the 1960's). Shy Thomas has a crush on his friend's sister Joan, and he loves to compose and perform folk music, so when American film director Edgar Acheson (hello, talking name) comes to Longferry to scout locations, he starts pondering life as an artist. If you now think that this is a "small town boy goes to Hollywood" story, you're mistaken, and I'm saying this because it's the core strength of the novel: It's not about the American Dream or fulfilling the stale idea of success we get to see on our social media feeds every day. No: It's a book about the search for authentic happiness, which is a highly individual endeavor that's not exclusively related to outside validation. Sensitive Thomas is not necessarily looking for the kind of adventure that takes you around the world, he is looking for emotional immediacy and connection, also through art. Usually, I'm not much into highly descriptive texts, but Jesus Christ, how Benjamin Wood writes about the work of a shanker, about Thomas steering his horse and his cart through the fog, how he juxtaposes the substance-driven, manic director with the somber nature at the ghostly beach, how he incorporates the power of the subconscious, how he works with the opposition between sheer make-belief and connective art - this is just masterful and original. The human interactions, the townsfolk, Thomas' youthful wish to see the good in people, the delicate connection between him and Joan - beautiful, beautiful psychological writing. And then there's the music: I will not spoil what fuels Thomas to write the title-giving song, but I will say that not only the lyrics, but the whole song exists, and you can listen to it here: http://www.benjaminwood.info/seascrap... I recommend the audio book production that incorporates the music, everything performed by the author, it's very moving and generally a great listen. Which leaves me with one question: Why isn't Benjamin Wood a famous writer? The Booker judges are right: He should be! You can listen to the podcast gang discussing the German translation Der Krabbenfischer here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

Winner of the 2025 Nero Book Award - Fiction Winner of the 2026 Winston Graham Prize for historical fiction with a sense of place Shortlisted for the 2026 Walter Scott Prize for historical fiction Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize And in keeping with the prize’s longlisting of a group of relatively unheralded English based male authors (Markovits, Miller, Buckley) and of rather quiet novels (add “Love Forms”) - based both in my own views (confirmed on a re-read) and general reader reaction post longlist I would not dismiss the novel’s chances of taking the prize as it is such a well constructed novel. The year of the novel - assuming that the local cinema is showing new releases - would appear to be 1962 when “The Land In Winter” also starts, also in the West of England if much further South and also dominated by weather (here fog, there snow). I found it interesting that in this novel Thomas’s mother had him at 15 and chose to keep the baby despite the constraints it involved on the rest of her life - interesting as this is a longlist that majors on adoption. Most noticeably Dawn in “Love Forms”, but also - at least in the view of Xavier in Part 1 - the narrator of “Audition”, Anne with Tobias in “Flashlight” and even Bori (Istvan’s last lover) having given up a baby in “Flesh” at 15. Favourite quote on a re-read brown shrimp tumbling in the wash of water far away, awaiting his return, if not today then some day after, when the money’s all been spent in the account on bills and debts and stuff to eat and smoke and Lord knows what his ma does with it, but he knows this much: the town feels smaller than it did when he rode through it last, the outer world seems fuller and less difficult to reach. He’s added something to it now – it mightn’t be much cop or good enough to get the admiration of the crowd down at the Fisher’s Rest, but he can say he made it on his own, and there’ll be more to come. This little snippet of the coastline he relies on for his livelihood does not belong to him or anybody, but it’s always there, preceding him, outlasting him for sure, and he can recognise his loyalty to the ghosts who walk along it – he can even manage to respect himself for being steadfast to the work – but there’s no meaning in it any more. It doesn’t matter to the sea who visits it, or to the shrimp who scrapes them from the sand. A song, though – well, a song belongs to someone. To whoever dreamed it up. Yesterday it wasn’t even born, and now it’s in the world. He can’t go on ignoring what he’s best at, and it isn’t shanking in his grandpa’s cart. ORIGINAL REVIEW The sea is so withdrawn it’s nothing but a promise you’d be mad to put your faith in; it’s the same old promise every ebb tide and he won’t be chasing it this morning. Set in a fictional coast town – Longferry (a fictionalised version of the author’s home town and so I think on the North West Coast of England – although this is not specified) and set by deduction in the 1960s (again not specified – and the main protagonist is effectively living what was already then an outmoded almost anachronistic way of life making the exact timing difficult to judge), the novel’s (the Creative Writing Lecturer’s fifth) protagonist is twenty year old Thomas Flett. Thomas is working in the family trade (via his maternal grandfather) as a shanker – taking his horse and cart out across the 1-2 mile long beach at each low water (the book effectively takes place over three such low waters over two days) to scrape just across the sea shore for shrimp - which he then sells for cash in hand to a local merchant. Thomas lives with his mother – his father was her teacher and had relationships with her as a schoolchild before fleeing in disgrace to join up and being killed in the war – and his deliberately unnamed horse (the risk of having to abandon horse in sinkpits in the sand mean that traditionally the shankers have not got too sentimentally attached to their horses – albeit a close working relationship is essential to their trade). Thomas lives a slow, deliberate life with his mother, working his grandpa’s trade as a shanker. He rises early to take his horse and cart to the grey, gloomy beach to scrape for shrimp; spending the rest of the day selling his wares, trying to wash away the salt and scum, pining for Joan Wyeth down the street and rehearsing songs on his guitar. At heart, he is a folk musician, but it remains a private dream. For all Thomas feels almost obliged to pursue this trade and support his mother in her hand-to-mouth home economics, he yearns for a different future and secretly is practising his folk guitar playing while also trying to pluck up (pun intended) the courage to speak to the sister of his best friend. And over the two days of the novel – a new vista opens up when he and his mother are visited by an American filmmaker (who Thomas checks out in a film guide at his local shop) scouting for a location to film his favourite novel set – a mysterious ghost like story set on a desolate American beach and involving an undertaker’s horse and cart. And while not everything about the visitor turns out to be exactly as he initially promised, a beach accident leading to a fevered dream unlocks a creativity in Thomas and leads him to write the titular song. Thomas’s song (and a recording from the author’s website is here http://www.benjaminwood.info/seascrap...) At first light we wake to gulls in the shallows tack up our horses pack up the cart The pier is bright with lamps still burning once we’ve arrived we’re so nearly departed Lord, give me life enough to do this again, to rise with the tide in the morning at Longferry Let me go home with the whiskets full of the shrimp Bury me here in these waters so I can be a seascraper a seascraper forever Overall this was a quiet and short but nevertheless impactful novel.

To say this is atmospheric is an understatement as I was immersed in the fog and the chill on the beach where 20 year old Thomas Flett scrapes the sea for shrimp making a meager living providing support for himself and his mother . It’s a sad, lonely, hard working existence in Northern England in spite of his dreams to play his music and maybe find a different life. A feeling of melancholy and acceptance that this was meant to be is reflected as Thomas trudges through the days, but his yearning for more grows . A chance to perhaps find a way out, a way forward to the music he loves , to a better life, comes along when a stranger seeks his help to travel the beach as he films a movie . An offer of money , a glimpse at what it might be like to make art . “There's now a cool, soft, effervescent feeling in his blood, a sense of possibility that's spreading from his heart down to his ingrown nails. He's always been suspicious of excitement - nothing he anticipates is ever worth the wait or turns out quite the same he expects - but still, it's coursing through him like a medicine. If it's true that better luck will come to you through patience and determination , he’s not felt the benefits of that approach so far .” I couldn’t help but hope for more for Thomas, but at the same time, I was skeptical that the movie maker would be the answer to Thomas’ prayers . What a difference a day makes ! I was not prepared for the moving ending. This is deservedly longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize. A depiction of a young man’s place in the world hampered by circumstances, but elevated by hopes and dreams. (Thanks to Melanie who always writes beautiful reviews led me to this book. Here’s her review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... I received a copy of this from Scribner through NetGalley.

I thought this novella was simply… brilliant! The atmosphere from the Irish Sea… the cold and damp, the fog, the tide… it’s as if I was right there with the lonely young man Thomas Fett ..as he was on the beach with his horse catching shrimp. It’s as if the atmosphere were itself a character. Though the work he does is hard work, he has dreams and when a movie director sees him on the beach, things start looking up for him and his mom who are very much in need, financially. Anyway, an occurrence happens at sea..while Thomas was s out scouting the location at night with the movie director..and Thomas begins to believe that he can follow his dreams. A beautiful story!

A quiet masterpiece of longing, craft, and escape. Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize. "When you're young, you think life is a string of choices. It's either you choose this door or the other door, or jump out of the window. You don't realise that most of what'll happen to you is because of other people's choices. There's a door already opened for you, so you walk straight through it, and you wonder how you wound up on the fire escape. That's life, I'm telling you. Don't bother getting older. Art's the only way I've ever had of making any sense of it." In the fog-lit coastal town of Longferry, 21-year-old Thomas Lett lives a slow, deliberate life with his mother and his horse-drawn cart, scraping shrimp at dawn and selling his catch by afternoon. His trade is inherited, his dreams hidden: he longs to be a folk musician and to win the heart of his crush, Joan Wyeth, down the street. But when a striking American visitor arrives, bringing with him glamour and the possibility of a different future, Thomas finds himself caught between the weight of his class and the pull of his ambition. Benjamin Wood's "Seascraper" is a haunting, breathtakingly beautiful portrait of a young man hemmed in by circumstance even as he dares to dream of something beyond. An intimate look at a mere one and a half days in Thomas's life, "Seascraper" manages to convey, despite its slim frame, the entirety of a simple life, honest work, and the ache for more - an ode to the power of music and the chance to reinvent yourself. With slow, lyrical prose and a focus on the internal as much as the external, Wood beautifully captures the ache of longing and the cost of waiting. Intensely atmospheric and full of vivid imagery and transcendent melancholy, "Seascraper" is simply unforgettable. One of my favorite reads this year. The absolutely stunning cover perfectly captures this novel. Make sure not to miss the audio of Thomas's song, which can be found at www.benjaminwood.info/seascraper. Many thanks to Scribner for providing me with a copy via NetGalley in exchange for my honest review. "Seascraper" was first published on July 17, 2025; the U.S. edition is slated to be published on November 4, 2025.

Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize. This is the story of Thomas. We are never told the time period but references from characters suggest that it is somewhere in the sixties. Thomas is a Seascraper or shanker. Like me you are probably wondering what in the world is a shanker? Well Thomas goes to the beach each day with nothing but his horse and nets and trawls for shrimp every morning. A backbreaking job that takes its toll on one’s body and mind. Thomas is only twenty but moves with the fragile tired shuffles of an old man. His spine is hunching over. He longs to ask Joan, a young woman who lives near him, out, but is too shy. He also yearns to become a singer, and writes his own songs, but doubts himself, his voice and talent. And there in lies the crux of the story. Should he take the risks and pursue both Joan and his dreams of singing or stay working the job that his family has for generations that, I think it’s fair to say is slowly killing him. Is it possible for him to break out of this world that he was born into? Does he really want to? What makes this book so good? Well, it’s beautifully written. Descriptive writing par excellence. The passages where Thomas is working in the water collecting shrimp are dripping with realism. The shrouding fog, the encroaching tide, the sink holes threatening to suck you down into their depths. These passages are stunning. Then there are the characters. Not a huge cast, but all brilliant, especially Thomas. And a narrative that is perfectly structured. Like pieces of a miniature train track, each piece clicked in leading to the perfect ending. Make no mistake this is a brilliant book, and along with “Endling” one I would love to see win the Booker. This was another buddy read with Nat K, and she loves it. Check out her review.

A beautiful little heartbreaker. Loved this.

⚫⚫⚫⚫½ — A pleasant, unique & warming seaside historical fiction novel that threads so much nuance it’s hard not to want to re-read immediately to soak up more. Benjamin Wood’s Sea Scraper — longlisted for this year’s Booker Prize — is a ferocious, hypnotic novel that thrums with both architectural precision and oceanic dread. It’s a work that feels at once monumental and intimate; an odyssey built not upon sea or steel, but upon guilt, ambition, and the shifting tectonics of the human spirit. Wood, ever the craftsman of character and structure, has written something that feels almost engineered rather than merely composed. The titular “Sea Scraper” — a subaquatic vertical city, equal parts utopia and tomb — functions as both literal setting and psychological metaphor. It’s a haunting concept, rendered with verisimilitude so striking you can practically taste the brine and hear the low hum of pressure valves in your bones. The novel’s central conceit — man’s attempt to outwit nature and consequence — carries the tensile intelligence of Ballard and the emotional granularity of McEwan. What makes Sea Scraper truly special, though, is Wood’s lexical poise. His prose is suffused with a kind of melancholic grandeur — sentences that tilt between the mellifluous and the merciless. He writes with a syntax that occasionally verges on the histrionic, but somehow never topples into pretension. Words like “pelagic,” “antiphonal,” and “threnodic” appear not as decoration but as functional architecture — rare jewels set into steel. The novel’s characters, particularly Elias, the obsessive engineer haunted by familial ghosts, are drawn with a surgeon’s patience. His descent (both literal and figurative) through the submerged levels of his creation feels almost Dantean. Wood explores the liminality between brilliance and mania, faith and futility, with an unflinching gaze that makes the reader complicit in every moral collapse. And yet, for all its density and intellectual muscle, the book’s pulse remains profoundly human. The final third unfolds with elegiac restraint — quieter, almost reverent — as if Wood knows he has built something too vast to contain within mere plot. The closing pages left me, quite simply, bereft; not because of their sorrow, but because of their completion. There are moments where the narrative’s intricacy borders on claustrophobic — I occasionally longed for more oxygen, more narrative sky — but these are minor abrasions on an otherwise magnificent surface. Sea Scraper transcends its own audacity. It’s visionary, deeply humane, and wholly sui generis. Wood has built a cathedral beneath the waves — and somehow, impossibly, made it sing.

This was a slow, quiet novel about a young man living a simple, hard life alongside his single mother, in a village on the West Coast of England. He's the provider; they barely scrape by. It's a life of early mornings, drudgery, with the cold seeping into one's bones. Rinse and repeat. But what else is Thomas to do? One day, a Hollywood director shows up at their place, asking for Thomas' help to scout a beach location. The man is like no one Thomas had come across before. Some chance meetings can change one's outlook on life. This highly atmospheric novel was beautifully written, inhabited by ordinary and realistic characters. It's beyond my comprehension how this book hasn't made it onto the Booker shortlist. Oh, I read the first half and listened to the audiobook after that. Benjamin Wood was the narrator and he was incredible. He also included a couple of songs, written and sang by him. Such a beautiful addition! Obviously, he's a multi-talented man.

Listened. I think this is one of the first times I've listened to an audiobook of a novel narrated by the author. (Memoirs, sure, but not fiction.) Certainly, I was hesitant, but I need not have been: Benjamin Wood's telling of his own tale was stunning. Breathtaking. Spot-on. Even the American accent was as rich as could be. (Can you hear the applause from this far away, Master Wood?). So, what, that's two books in a row that gutted me. Sucked me in and wouldn't let go. The last one was A Family Matter and now there's Seascraper. What is it about these elegiac British stories that so moved me? I think both books, short though they were, completely captured a piece of a life. Not the whole of a person, but a moment that mattered. Smart prose. Resonant and relatable internal dialog. Tight sentences that render more meaning than some writers do through entire paragraphs. Nothing wasted. Not a single word. There is no way I can do justice to this book with my measly words. To review this is to somehow diminish its power and poetry. So I'll just leave it here. [If you are considering reading this book, please, I beg you, get the audio alongside it--there are a few musical numbers. I can still hear the finale song in my head, hours later. And yeah, it most definitely made me cry.]

Gosh, how I love a good, quiet story and Seascraper absolutely rose to the occasion. For fans of Leif Enger, Frode Grytten, Cynan Jones, and Per Petterson, you’re in for something special. And if you loved Seascraper but haven’t yet read these authors, get them on your TBR immediately. This is the story of a young man living a simple, salt-stung life—shrimping with his horse and cart, just like his grandfather did. He lives at home, supports his single mother, quietly pines for his best friend’s sister, and buries his dreams of becoming a singer-songwriter deep beneath the weight of practicality. Dreams don’t pay the bills, after all, and who has time to waste on that?! But everything shifts when a film director spots him working on the beach and hires him to scout locations for an upcoming movie. Gloomy, moody, atmospheric, unassuming, and subtly folkloric—this is a slow-burn, character-driven novel that pulls you gently along through the mist. It straddles the line between duty and desire, longing and resignation, with a tenderness that lingers long after the last page. It’s the kind of story that hums in the background long after you’ve finished reading... like a song you didn’t know you’d memorized.

Not a soul will ever look at him and think, My God, that fella catches shrimp so well, it takes my breath away–he’s very sure of that. from Seascraper by Benjamin Wood Thomas’s grand-pop taught him that providing is surviving, and since Pop’s death, Thomas took up Pop’s work to provide for his mother. He rose early and harnessed the horse to the cart and drove through the cold and fog and rain to the beach. The horse walked through the low tide water, scraping for shrimp. After a few passes, Thomas carried the catch to market to sell, then returned home, cared for the horse, and caught a few hours rest before the next low tide. At twenty, he felt like an old man. Like the work horse, he does his duty, but lately its been niggling him that he has settled for too little. He dreams of music, learning guitar and the traditional music of the land. He wants a wife, a family. Something beyond living with his mother, who was merely fifteen when he was born. I’ve only known him for a day, that’s true, but I felt better for it. I’m not sure I was awake before he came along. from Seascraper by Benjamin Wood A man from the greater world seeks out Thomas. An American who makes movies, who believes the beach Thomas knows so well is the perfect setting for his next film. He offers Thomas an outrageous price to take him to the beach. Thomas gets caught up in the director’s enthusiasm, the idea of making a life based on art. On the treacherous beach, a lapse of care, nearly fatal, brings a crisis, a revelation, and cements their friendship. Awake finally, Thomas takes command of his future. With gorgeous descriptions and memorable characters, this short book breaks your heart and mends it again. Thanks to the publisher for a free book through NetGalley.

The protagonist of Seascraper, Thomas Flett, works long hours in the family business of catching shrimp, and for most of his life he has been stuck in the same dull routine. Lately, though, he has been yearning for something more. He loves music, but has to play and sing in secret because his talent and his dreams don’t really fit within his small world. That sense of entrapment is very familiar to me—the feeling of being born into a place too small for one’s dreams. Thomas’s yearning is implicit in everything he does and says. And Wood’s writing amplifies that by giving him so much depth and dignity. Thomas isn’t heroic in any obvious way, but his quiet, persistent hoping and dreaming made him someone I really cared about and rooted for. Seascraper also makes the argument that art is literally a lifeline. For Thomas, music isn’t just a hobby or an escape; it’s a way of being fully alive. In the scene where he composes the title song, it doesn’t even matter if other people ever hear it; he needs that moment of release just for himself. It’s not a grandiose moment in front of a roaring crowd. It’s just a young man alone in a room with his guitar, but Wood makes it feel like the most important performance in the world. The novel also insists on the necessity of dreaming, even when those dreams are small, even when they seem doomed to fail. Again and again, people caution Thomas about his naïveté, claiming that life will grind down his hopes soon enough. But I think the deeper message is that not trying at all is the greater tragedy, that you only stop dreaming when you die. I admired Thomas for wanting more out of life, and I also felt deeply inspired by him. I love that Benjamin Wood even went through the trouble of having Thomas’s song recorded, so that readers could hear it after finishing the book, and to me that is the perfect coda: a reminder that art, once it’s created, belongs to the world. I think Thomas would be shocked and thrilled.

"It's so strange, when you read a book and you can picture all the places in it so completely, even though they're built from someone else's life and you're just like a tourist in the writer's scenery, you know – A motion of grey chalk and then he reaches for the white again" ..& just like that I was that very tint of grey chalk in this minimal yet elaborate canvas of the author. The quaint ambience & atmospheric settings pulled me in such a way that it never feels as if we have been apart Thomas Flett is a young shanker (collects shrimp by netting on a horse) lives with his mother in Town of Longferry in 1960's. A very hard life marred with loans & absent father "He has to push aside a load of musty coats from where they're hanging on the hooks, which seem to be remainders of his younger days..they should've been donated..but his ma gets sentimental when it comes to their possessions - she believes the fibres of a person's soul remain in them forever" Divided into 3 parts as Low tide or High Tide, the ebb & flow of the story is spread over a period of 2 days. Wherein a visit from Edgar Acheson (probably a big time Hollywood director) brings a vital difference in otherwise mundane life of Thomas. It opens the folds of the story, all the while opening the hidden endearing facets of Thomas's desires, dreams, wishes & some unanswered questions "He wishes he could see the beach the way it must appear to Edgar, special and mysterious. But the parts of it which stoked his fascination as a boy – the strange withholding of the water, all the energy that you could sense but never see - have turned to ordinary components of his day" Whenever I visit an art gallery, much to the horror of the people around, all I want to do is not just look at the paintings but to touch them, feel their texture, the brazen or the soft strokes, the finesse of colours etc. & Oh Yes Benjamin Woods gave me every goddamn opportunity to do that. I feel satiated It's dark, eerie, surprising, distressing, charming, heart breaking & very humane. The gloomy damp settings are so palpable. Oh special claps for that heart warming ending Read it for the sheer beauty of why we write & why we read

4.5 - stark in both prose and landscape. Singular in plot. Quite beautiful and moving. My favorite of the Booker noms so far.

Absolutely loved this book. Currently struck down with flu will update properly when better.

Some banal words come to mind, but it really is a very, very good novel. You just have to get through the first "shrimp" 20 pages, and then cry at the end

I picked up Breaking the Bias of English out of curiosity, but I finished it with a completely different awareness of the language I use every single day. What struck me first was not outrage or accusation — it was clarity. Vivian Probst methodically lays out how English has historically centered the masculine as default, and she does it in a way that feels researched, patient, and deeply considered. This is not a reactionary book. It feels like the culmination of years of observation and reflection. The idea that six specific words The, She, Her, Woman, Women, and They can begin shifting linguistic power sounds almost unbelievable at first. But Probst walks the reader through her reasoning with enough depth that the framework starts to feel logical rather than radical. I found myself pausing often, rereading examples, and noticing patterns I had never consciously questioned before. What makes this book compelling is that it doesn’t simply critique English. It offers a solution. It invites participation. It suggests that reform does not require tearing language down but recalibrating it toward balance. Whether you fully embrace her WEnglish concept or simply engage with it thoughtfully, you cannot deny that she makes you see English differently. That alone makes this book important.

There is something quietly powerful about this book. Vivian Probst does not approach the subject of linguistic bias with anger. She approaches it with discipline. You can feel the fifteen years of research behind every chapter. That kind of patience commands respect. I was particularly moved by how she connects language to lived experience. The idea that being linguistically sidelined shapes confidence, visibility, and identity is not presented as an abstract theory it is grounded in observation. The transition she proposes from “he power” to “we power” is not framed as antagonistic toward men, but as restorative toward inclusion. The six-word solution initially felt too simple. Yet as I read through her explanations, I realized that simplicity is part of its genius. Language shifts begin with small, deliberate choices. This book challenges the reader to become conscious rather than passive in how we speak and write. It is not just about women it is about awareness. By the end, I found myself scanning headlines, noticing pronoun defaults, and rethinking how I phrase things. That is impact.

This book offers a thoughtful exploration of how language functions as a vehicle for social power and identity formation. The author presents a well-structured argument that demonstrates how deeply gender bias is embedded within everyday English usage. The discussion is informed by feminist linguistic theory, yet remains accessible to readers without specialized academic backgrounds. The concept of “WEnglish for WEquality” is particularly noteworthy, as it reframes language reform as both a cognitive and cultural shift. The proposed framework encourages readers to engage critically with their own patterns of speech and writing. While the book is engaging and informative, certain sections could benefit from tighter editing, as key ideas are occasionally reiterated. Nonetheless, its clarity and practical orientation make it a strong resource for those interested in inclusive communication and social equity.

This book provides a strong critique of the hidden biases embedded within the English language and their impact on gendered perceptions of authority. It argues that language is not merely a neutral tool for communication but an active force in shaping social reality. The author presents her ideas in a structured and accessible manner, making complex linguistic theory understandable to a general audience. This balance between academic insight and readability is one of the book’s key strengths. It encourages readers to reflect on their own language use and recognize the subtle ways in which bias can appear in everyday speech. In addition to analysis, the book offers a practical approach to more inclusive communication. While some may find the proposed solution simplified, it effectively opens the door to deeper discussion and awareness. Overall, it is a thoughtful and engaging contribution to contemporary debates on language and gender.

“Vivian R. Probst’s Breaking the Bias of English is a bold and timely contribution to ongoing conversations about gender equality and representation. The book makes a compelling case that language is not merely a reflection of society but an active force in shaping it. By exposing the ways in which English has historically centered male perspectives, Probst challenges readers to confront the invisible structures that influence thought and behavior. What is particularly powerful about this work is its emphasis on agency: rather than presenting bias as an insurmountable problem, Probst offers a clear and practical pathway for change. The concept of ‘WEnglish for WEquality’ reframes language as a tool for empowerment, inviting individuals and communities to participate in reshaping norms. This is not just a book about words—it is a call to action. For activists, advocates, and anyone committed to equity, it provides both the insight and the tools needed to drive meaningful change.”

This work succeeds in an area where many academic texts fall short: translating complex theoretical insights into actionable strategies. The author demonstrates a deep understanding of linguistic bias and its implications, while maintaining a clear focus on practical outcomes. The central premise—that language both reflects and reinforces societal power structures is developed with precision. More importantly, the book provides readers with a concrete method for addressing this imbalance through a simple yet effective linguistic adjustment. The “six-word shift” serves as a powerful tool for reframing communication in a more inclusive manner. The writing is direct and engaging, ensuring that the material remains approachable without sacrificing intellectual rigor. This makes the book suitable for a wide audience, from academics to practitioners. It is a highly recommended resource for anyone seeking to understand and transform the relationship between language and gender.

This is a rigorously researched and intellectually compelling work that challenges readers to reconsider the very foundation of everyday communication. Vivian R. Probst brings a trained linguist’s precision to a subject often dismissed as abstract, revealing how deeply gender bias is embedded within the structure of the English language itself. What makes this work particularly powerful is its balance between theory and application. Rather than stopping at critique, Probst offers a clear, memorable, and actionable six-word framework that empowers readers to actively reshape their language. The concept of transitioning from “he-powered” to “we-powered” communication is both elegant and transformative. This is essential reading for educators, leaders, writers, and anyone invested in building a more equitable and inclusive world.

This book offers a refreshing and thought-provoking perspective on the English language, one that feels both timely and necessary. Vivian Probst approaches her subject with a sense of clarity and purpose that makes even complex ideas accessible. The concept that language can carry inherent bias is explored with care, allowing readers to see how deeply these patterns are embedded in everyday communication. What stood out to me most was how the book gradually builds its argument, leading to a realization that feels both surprising and undeniable. The introduction of the six-word framework provides a sense of direction and possibility. It’s not just about recognizing the issue—it’s about having the tools to address it. This practical element gives the book a sense of relevance that extends beyond the page. It’s a work that encourages readers to think differently and act with greater awareness.

I recently finished Breaking the Bias of English by Vivian Probst, and wow, this book really opened my eyes. Probst shows how the English language subtly disempowers women, and she presents a simple yet powerful solution by changing just six words. I loved how she connected language with gender equality in such a clear and thought-provoking way. One thing that did frustrate me, though, was that I couldn’t leave a review on her Amazon page, it’s not optimized, and it was a bit of a hassle to share my thoughts there. It would be great if that could be fixed so more people can engage with the book. Overall, highly recommend this book if you're into language, equality, or just want to see how small changes can make a big difference!

This work presents a carefully argued and intellectually grounded exploration of how language structures influence social power. Vivian R. Probst draws from years of linguistic research to demonstrate that English is not a neutral communication tool, but one that has historically centered male perspectives. What stands out is the author’s ability to translate complex feminist linguistic theory into accessible insights without diluting its significance. The proposed six-word shift is particularly compelling—not only as a conceptual framework, but as a practical intervention readers can begin applying immediately. While some arguments may invite debate, the clarity, depth, and originality make this a valuable contribution to discussions on language and equality.

Vivian R. Probst has achieved something rare: she has translated complex linguistic theory into a format that is both accessible and immediately applicable. This work is grounded in feminist linguistics, yet it avoids the density that often limits academic writing to a narrow audience. Instead, Probst presents her findings with clarity, structure, and purpose. Her exploration of how “man-centered” language shapes authority, identity, and perception is both enlightening and unsettling in the best possible way. The six-word solution she introduces is not only practical but scalable, capable of influencing personal communication, organizational culture, and broader societal norms. It stands as both a scholarly contribution and a practical guide for meaningful change.

Vivian Probst offers a compelling exploration of how language can reflect and reinforce gender inequality. Drawing on years of research, she argues that English subtly privileges male perspectives and proposes an innovative solution centered on six key words to promote inclusivity. The book is accessible and thought-provoking, encouraging readers to reconsider the power of everyday language. While some arguments lean more toward advocacy than extensive academic evidence, it remains a bold and original contribution to discussions on language and gender. Overall, it is a concise and engaging read, particularly suited for those interested in linguistics, gender studies, and social change.

Vivian Probst presents a bold and unconventional argument about structural bias embedded within the English language. Drawing on years of independent linguistic inquiry, Probst challenges readers to reconsider the relationship between language and gender, proposing a minimalist yet radical solution: six targeted spelling reforms. What distinguishes this work is its clarity of purpose and accessibility. Rather than remaining in abstract theory, the author delivers a tangible framework she calls “WEnglish,” aimed at reshaping linguistic norms in pursuit of gender equity. While some readers may question the feasibility of widespread adoption, the work succeeds in sparking meaningful discussion about how language influences perception and identity.

Probst challenges readers to reconsider the words they use daily and the assumptions embedded within them. The strength of this work lies in its boldness—it does not merely critique existing systems but offers a tangible pathway toward change. The idea that a simple linguistic adjustment can shift power dynamics is both provocative and empowering. The introduction of “WEnglish” as a framework for inclusive communication is innovative, though it may require time and practice for widespread adoption. Nonetheless, it succeeds in reframing language as an active force in shaping identity and authority.

One of the most impressive aspects of this work is its ability to bridge the gap between academic research and real-world application. The author avoids overly dense theoretical writing by grounding arguments in relatable insights and actionable strategies. The six-word solution serves as a focal point, giving readers something concrete to take away rather than leaving them with abstract ideas. However, the work could benefit from additional case studies demonstrating how this framework operates in professional, educational, or social contexts. Even so, it remains an insightful and highly usable guide.

This book delivers a fresh perspective on something most of us overlook—how everyday language subtly reinforces gender bias. Vivian R. Probst explains complex linguistic ideas in a way that feels approachable without losing depth. The standout element is the practical solution. Instead of simply pointing out problems, the author provides a clear method for change that readers can begin using immediately. While the concept may challenge long-held habits, it is presented in a way that feels empowering rather than critical. A concise, insightful read that encourages meaningful reflection on the words we use and the systems they support.

Vivian Probst advances a provocative thesis regarding structural gender bias within the English lexicon, arguing that linguistic inequities are embedded at the morphological level rather than solely in usage. The work’s central contribution lies in its attempt to operationalize reform through a concise set of orthographic modifications. While the argument is presented with clarity and conviction, it departs from established linguistic frameworks and may be met with critical scrutiny in academic circles. Nevertheless, it represents an original and accessible intervention in ongoing discussions within sociolinguistics and gender studies.

Vivian R. Probst delivers a compelling reexamination of how language quietly shapes systems of power. By exposing the male-centered defaults embedded in English, she challenges readers to confront biases many have never consciously considered. What makes this work particularly impactful is its forward-looking approach. Rather than dwelling solely on critique, it offers a clear and actionable pathway toward more inclusive communication. The six-word framework is both memorable and transformative, making this a meaningful contribution to ongoing conversations about equity and representation.

This engaging and informative book examines how language influences perceptions of authority and inclusion, particularly for women. Vivian R. Probst presents a strong, research-backed argument that challenges the notion of English as a neutral medium. The writing is clear and approachable, and the inclusion of practical strategies makes the content especially valuable. By encouraging readers to critically evaluate everyday language, the book serves as both an educational resource and a call to action.

In this thought-provoking and well-structured work, Vivian R. Probst explores the hidden biases embedded within the English language and their impact on gender equality. The book effectively combines academic research with practical application, making it accessible to both scholars and general readers. Its central concept—a simple yet transformative linguistic shift—offers readers a tangible way to adopt more inclusive communication. Overall, it is a meaningful contribution to ongoing discussions about language, representation, and social change.

Insightful and bold, this book challenges readers to see English through a new lens one that reveals how deeply gender bias runs in everyday language. With a practical and empowering approach, it shows how small, intentional changes in just six words can shift the balance from exclusion to equality. Both enlightening and inspiring, it invites readers to join a linguistic movement toward fairness and inclusion.

Breaking the Bias of English is a sharp, revealing look at how deeply English tilts toward male-centered language and how easily we can change that. Vivian Probst explains her fifteen-year discovery with clarity and passion, showing that just six small word shifts can open the language to women in a meaningful way. It’s accessible, insightful, and surprisingly empowering. A must-read for anyone interested in how words shape equality.

Vivian Probst has done something rare: she has exposed a structural bias hiding in plain sight. Breaking the Bias of English is not an emotional rant, nor is it a shallow cultural critique. It is a methodical, thoughtful unveiling of how the English language subtly centers men while sidelining women and then, remarkably, she offers a practical solution. The brilliance lies in the simplicity: six words. This book doesn’t just critique language; it reforms it.

This eye-opening work uncovers the subtle ways English has historically disempowered women and offers a surprisingly simple yet powerful solution. Through just six carefully chosen words, it demonstrates how language can shift from exclusion to empowerment. Thought-provoking, practical, and inspiring, it’s a must-read for anyone interested in equality, communication, and reclaiming the power of words.

Breaking the Bias of English is a thought-provoking examination of how language influences societal structures and individual identities. Vivian R. Probst challenges readers to confront the ingrained biases within the English language and offers actionable steps to foster inclusivity. Her writing is both scholarly and accessible, making complex concepts understandable and engaging. This book is a transformative read that encourages critical reflection and meaningful change.

Vivian R. Probst’s Breaking the Bias of English offers an insightful analysis of how language can perpetuate gender stereotypes and inequalities. Probst not only identifies these issues but also provides practical solutions, empowering readers to actively participate in creating a more equitable linguistic landscape. Her approach is both analytical and actionable, making this book a valuable tool for anyone interested in social justice and linguistic reform.

Breaking the Bias of English is a fascinating and thought‑provoking look at how language shapes the way we think. The author’s passion for linguistic equality really shines through as she explores how English has historically favored masculine forms and offers creative ideas to rethink and reshape it for fairness. This book made me reflect deeply on everyday speech and how powerful words can be in shaping culture and perception.

This book completely changed how I listen to everyday language. I always thought of English as neutral, but the way the author breaks down word choices, defaults, and assumptions really opened my eyes. What surprised me most was how subtle the bias is, it’s not loud or obvious, but it’s everywhere once you start paying attention. I appreciated that the book doesn’t shame the reader. It explains, reflects, and invites you to think differently. I finished it feeling more aware, not lectured.

I didn’t expect a book about linguistics to hit me this personally. But it did. About halfway through, I caught myself rereading sentences differently. Vivian Probst doesn’t just point out bias in English she makes you see it in real time. And once you see it it’s hard to go back. The six-word solution sounds simple almost too simple but the logic behind it is surprisingly compelling.

Breaking the Bias of English by Vivian Probst is truly groundbreaking. With sharp insight and passion, Vivian reveals how language itself has disempowered women, and how just six simple word changes can transform that bias into equality. It’s bold, intelligent, and deeply inspiring. A must-read for anyone who believes in the power of words to change the world. 🌟

This work delivers a compelling examination of how linguistic structures may contribute to gender bias. The author’s approach is both analytical and innovative, offering a concise solution that challenges conventional thinking. It is a stimulating read that invites deeper consideration of language and its societal impact.

I liked that this book goes beyond pointing out problems. It actually gives the reader something to think about and work with. It feels practical rather than theoretical. After reading it, I noticed myself becoming more intentional with words at work and in conversation 💬. That alone made the book worth reading for me.

Eye-opening and empowering, this work uncovers the hidden bias woven into the fabric of English and turns it into an opportunity for change. With remarkable clarity, it demonstrates how six simple word shifts can reshape the way we think, speak, and relate to one another. A courageous and transformative call to reimagine language as a tool for equality rather than exclusion.

An insightful and eye-opening read that challenges the hidden gender imbalance within everyday language. With clarity and conviction, it reveals how small changes in a few key words can restore inclusivity and empower communication. Bold, intelligent, and deeply human it inspires readers to see English, and themselves in a new light.

Vivian I didn’t expect a book about language to be this engaging, but Breaking the Bias of English surprised me. Probst highlights biases hidden in plain sight and shows how small shifts in wording can empower women. I’ve already started catching these patterns in daily conversations. Highly recommended for anyone who loves learning.

This was a surprisingly empowering read. Not because it promises big dramatic solutions, but because it shows how small changes in awareness can matter. The author explains how language can limit or uplift without sounding extreme or exaggerated. It’s calm, thoughtful, and very grounded in reality 🌍.

This book stands out because it explores gender equality from a completely different angle grammar and vocabulary. The approach is original, the writing is engaging, and the message is empowering. A fascinating read for anyone interested in culture and change

A sharp and empowering examination of how language shapes inequality. With just six simple changes, it turns English from a system that excludes into one that uplifts. Insightful, courageous, and transformative this work redefines how we speak about ourselves and each other.

This book provides a unique and structured perspective on the role of language in shaping perceptions of gender. The author’s proposed solution is simple yet ambitious, encouraging readers to reflect critically on everyday communication and its broader implications.

This book brilliantly uncovers how deeply bias runs within the English language and shows how just a few small adjustments can shift power back to balance. It’s smart, engaging, and quietly revolutionary turning words into tools for equality and awareness.

This is a concise yet impactful work that addresses complex issues surrounding language and equality. The author presents a persuasive argument and introduces an innovative solution, making it a valuable read for those interested in the intersection of linguistics and social change.

I appreciated the tone of this book more than anything else.🤝📖 It’s respectful, intelligent, and clear. It doesn’t assume the reader is ignorant or hostile, which made it much easier to absorb the message 😌. By the end, I felt like I had gained insight rather than been corrected.

As someone who studies communication, I found Probst’s perspective refreshing and original. She highlights linguistic habits we often overlook and explains how they can shape society. The book is written in a way that both experts and everyday readers can appreciate.

What I enjoyed most was the practicality. Instead of overwhelming readers with theory, Vivian Probst provides a clear, doable plan for making language more inclusive. It’s a book that leaves you wiser and motivated to speak more thoughtfully.

A concise and compelling exploration of how everyday language shapes power. The ideas are simple yet surprisingly transformative, offering practical shifts that make English feel more inclusive and balanced. Clear, bold, and empowering, this is a quick read that leaves a lasting impact.

A fascinating and thought-provoking exploration of how language shapes power and identity. This work exposes the subtle gender biases embedded in English and offers an elegant, six-word solution that feels both revolutionary and refreshingly simple. It’s a powerful reminder that reclaiming language can be a form of reclaiming voice, dignity, and equality a must-read for anyone passionate about words and justice.

Breaking the Bias of English is a book that leaves a lasting impression. Vivian Probst has taken a complex and often overlooked issue and presented it in a way that feels both clear and impactful. The writing is engaging, making it easy for readers to follow along and reflect on their own use of language. As the argument develops, it becomes increasingly clear how language can shape perception in subtle but powerful ways. The six-word solution is what truly sets this book apart. It provides a practical and accessible way to begin making changes, giving readers a sense of agency. By the end, I felt more aware, more thoughtful, and more intentional in how I use language. This is a book that not only informs but inspires meaningful change.

Reading this book was both an enlightening and reflective experience. Vivian Probst presents her ideas with a level of clarity that makes them easy to engage with, while still maintaining depth and significance. The exploration of linguistic bias is handled thoughtfully, allowing readers to see how language can influence perception over time. What makes this book particularly compelling is its ability to connect abstract ideas to everyday experiences. As I read, I found myself reflecting on the words I use and the assumptions they carry. The six-word solution is a powerful addition, offering a clear and practical way to begin making changes. It’s simple enough to remember, yet meaningful enough to create impact. This combination of insight and action is what makes the book stand out. It leaves readers not only informed but also empowered to approach language with greater intention.

This book offers a perspective that feels both refreshing and necessary. Vivian Probst approaches the English language with a level of curiosity and depth that invites readers to reconsider what they thought they understood. The writing is clear and engaging, making it easy to follow even when the ideas themselves are quite profound. What stood out to me was how naturally the argument unfolds, leading to a realization that feels both surprising and inevitable. The six-word framework provides a practical and memorable way to begin making changes, which gives the book a sense of purpose beyond theory. It’s not just about understanding the issue—it’s about doing something with that understanding. This makes the book both relevant and empowering, encouraging readers to approach language with greater awareness and intention.

Breaking the Bias of English is a book that invites readers to look at language from a new perspective. Vivian Probst presents her ideas with clarity and confidence, making them both engaging and thought-provoking. The exploration of bias within English is handled with care, allowing readers to see how deeply these patterns are embedded in everyday communication. What makes this book particularly effective is its focus on action. The six-word solution provides a clear and practical way to begin addressing the issues raised in the book. It’s simple enough to be accessible, yet meaningful enough to create impact. This balance between insight and practicality is what makes the book stand out. It’s a work that encourages both awareness and change.

‘My Friends’ is the type of book that slowly but powerfully starts to absorb you, and by the end you have experienced a huge range of often touching and powerful emotions. This brilliant book covers many themes (family, politics, love, excile), but non more so than friendship - it’s beauty, complexity, impact and innate ability to shape who we are. A beautiful testament to friendship and it’s unequivocal ability to affect us. “After a little silence he said, ‘Friend. What a word. Most use it about those they hardly know. When it is a wondrous thing’”.

Winner of the National Book Critics Circle Award for Fiction 2024 Winner of the Orwell Prize for Political Fiction 2024 Nominated for the Booker Prize & the National Book Award 2024 And this is why I read literature: Matar has crafted a mesmerizing, intense novel about the refugee experience and how it affects people and their relationships. Our protagonist and narrator is Khaled abd el Hady, who was born in 1966 in Benghazi/Libya. As he walks through London in 2016, his life unfolds in his mind, and with it his friendships with Mustafa, whom he met in the 80's at the University of Edinburgh, as well as with Hosam, an enigmatic writer who has haunted his life since his childhood, when he heard one of his short stories on the radio, read by Mohammed Mustafa Ramadan. The latter was a real-life Libyan journalist with the BBC Arabic service and an outspoken critic of dictator Muammar Gaddafi - Ramadan was assassinated in 1980. The beauty of the story is the lively, emotionally deep rendition of the dynamic between the three friends with Libyan roots and how the world affects their bond. Matar connects these fictional characters with real-life events, like the murder of Yvonne Fletcher which Khaled and Mustafa witness. There are also layers referring to the author's personal life story: His father Jaballa Matar was considered a dissident by Gaddafi, the family had to flee, but in 1990, Jaballa was detained in Egypt, brought to Tripolis and disappeared in the infamous Abu Salim prison. The family still doesn't know what happened to him. And then, there are multiple references to books and paintings, from Joseph Conrad over Salīm Lawzī to Hans Memling. This text, presented as the thoughts of a 50-year-old man strolling through the British capital, is exciting like a thriller: The way the friends are affected by domestic and foreign politics, how exile and grief challenge them throughout their lives, how they live under a constant strain, in a constant state of alert translates to the reader with great immediacy. A wonderful novel, which deserves to win some literary prizes. You can listen to my radio review of the German translation Meine Freunde feat. Matar's fabulous translator Werner Löcher-Lawrence here: https://www.sr.de/sr/srkultur/home/ak... ...and here: https://www.sr.de/sr/srkultur/radio/s... ...plus there's a podcast version (with even more of the book and Werner!) here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

This spring marks a grim 40th anniversary. On April 17, 1984, after months of tension between Britain and Libya, an angry demonstration swelled outside the Libyan Embassy in London. Outraged by Muammar Qaddafi’s murderous reign back home, dozens of Libyan students chanted slogans against the dictator. Suddenly, from the embassy’s windows, shots were fired into the crowd. A 25-year-old British police officer was killed, and 10 demonstrators were wounded. That carnage burns through Hisham Matar’s meditative new novel, “My Friends.” Matar, the son of Libyan parents, was too young to have been involved in the deadly 1984 protest, but he later settled in London, and much of his writing has explored the terror of living under the threat of Qaddafi, who once clawed after his opponents around the world. Matar’s first novel, “In the Country of Men,” which was shortlisted for the Booker Prize, is about a boy in Tripoli trying to fathom his family’s rising anxiety. His Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir, “The Return,” explores the political abduction and disappearance of his father. In “My Friends,” a Libyan man named Khaled describes how he came to spend his adult life in England, pining for home. Part historical fiction, part cultural reflection, this is a story about the way exile calcifies the heart into an organ of brittle longing. To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

I would have bet money that this would have made the Booker shortlist. A book about not just friendship but friendship on a deep level. A book about exile and all the troubles that this title brings to one's life. A life of being afraid, a life of living a lie. A life of paranoia. That clicking on the phone, is it bugged? That man sitting on the park bench, I am sure he was there yesterday, is he following me? Matar does a remarkable job of helping the reader to understand just what it is like for somebody exiled from their homeland. Returning to family and home a possibility fraught with the danger of indefinite incarceration or execution. The protagonist, Khaled leaves Libya while under the reign of Gaddafi, to study in Edinburgh. While there he is persuaded by his friend to take part in a demonstration against the regime in front of the Libyan embassy. When the demonstrators are fired upon Khaled is badly wounded. While recovering in hospital he fears his identity has been exposed and he can never go home. To do so would put not only himself but his loved ones in terrible danger. Already many who have spoken out against the regime have disappeared never to be seen again. This essentially means that he has to live a lie. Lying to everybody about just about everything. To tell the truth to the wrong person could be fatal. With Gaddafi and the Arab Spring as a backdrop, this wonderful novel is a study of the depth of love that friendship can achieve. A great read.

Moving, sad, and tender. The hardships and heartbreaks of living in exile.

4,5 There is something melancholic in Hisham Matar's meditative writing that touches me deeply. In part it's his calming voice - I really recommend the audiobook read by the author. It makes me accept sentences I would normally dismiss as saccharine or overly dramatic. But mostly this is a beautiful novel about a naive and sensitive young Libyan student who ends up an exile in London due to an unfortunate turn of events related to the real life shooting spree at the Libyan embassy in 1984. So far I had only read Matar's non-fiction and I was curious to see if he could evoke the same deep sense of loss and compassion in a novel. The answer is yes. It is not cheerful, but very highly recommended if you are in need of something absorbing and heartfelt read.

One of the joys of reading the Booker Longlist is discovering THAT book. The one which just encompasses their tagline of ‘finest fiction’ As you can guess, this review will be a gushfest. My Friends starts off with our narrator, Khaled, saying goodbye to his friend Hosam, who is emigrating to The States, and as he walks to his London flat, Khaled, begins to reminiscence about how he first encountered Hosam. He then mentions a second friend, Mustafa, who is also connected to him in a close way. The end result is a history of Libyan politics from the 60’s starting with Gaddafi’s coup to present day, which is, post Gaddafi Libya. In between we hear abut assassinations, murders, paranoia, spies and general unease. Although Khaled is documenting all of this from London, which is not entirely safe for him either, these events affect him, which goes to show that no matter where he is Libya will always be a part of him. As the title suggests, the book is about the depth a friendship can go: Khaled, Hosam and Mustafa are bound, not only by politics but also literature. As Hosam is an author and Khaled and Mustafa were English lit students. Not only is a the book a rather disguised letter to a damaged homeland but also a big love letter to literature and it’s power to express those feelings hidden in our depths. My Friends is not a straight forward novel plotwise, it winds with twists and turns, some events are mentioned in passing, only to have a greater emphasis later on in the book. Exposition and bits and pieces of Libya’s history are cleverly interwoven within the narrative. Despite the non chronological approach, Matar manages to also include many heartfelt passages about longing and loss without manipulating the reader’s emotions. My Friends works on many many levels. and like the literature it pays homage to, it will stay with the reader in some way or another.

This was such a strangely quiet book, contrasting with most of the fiction I've been reading lately, a novel about a life lived in exile, one's tentative but pervasive ties to others also living in that limbo, always aware of that steel cable of home, family and country. Khaled is a middle-aged Libyan man living in London when we meet him, but the time is very fluid in the book. He's a boy in the bosom of his family, with a cautious but respected teacher father, a smart boy, listening to a mysterious author's short story on the radio from England, on the ARab language BBC, and there are intimations that we will later meet that author. Then he is a student on a government sponsored scholarship to Edinburgh, where he falls in with a group of Libyan students, his first group of friends. Then he's in London with one of them, Mustafa, where, for a lark, they decide to attend a demonstration against Qaddafi at the Libyan Embassy. Suitably garbed in balaclavas, as the Qaddafi regime is quite murderous about any kind of protest, there is a shocking break in Khaled's life. In a well-documented incident, the demonstrators are fired upon from inside the Embassy. Mustafa escapes, but Khaled is shot, and after hospitalization and recovery, he realizes that his chances of ever returning home are nil. The book traces his relationship with Mustafa and others, girls and boys, women and men, his inability to even tell anyone, including--most of all--his parents what has happened to him for fear of the regime's reprisals. Khaled is not an immigrant to England, he makes little effort to truly immigrate and make a new life for himself. What happens is--his life stops. He is left circling that moment, emotionally stuck. He eventually becomes friends with that mysterious author, who himself has become an exile, Hosam Howa, and he moves between Mustafa and Hosam in an interesting dance. Eventually, with the start of Arab Spring, Mustafa--the least political of them--returns to fight against the regime, and surprisingly to Khaled, Howa returns as well. Libya so much more real to them than their lives in exile. Khaled's choice not to return is the fascinating puzzle at the heart of the book. The book has a beautiful tone, very internal--it covers some thirty years of Khaled's life, from age 18 to his fifties, the 1984 shooting, to 2016, five years after the death of Qaddafi--and one can follow the history of Libya in those years, the shooting of the students in London, the show trials and the outbreak of the Arab Spring as well as its aftermath. But the timeline is the internal one, the thoughts and life of exile, when even the joy has the hollowness of being not at home. I've been doing a lot of thinking lately about exile, and the book really lets you step into that space. The writing is beautiful, the character deeply aware of his own state--disappointed in himself, limiting the possibilities of moving ahead as his father did, a brilliant scholar who took a mediocre teaching job in a high school to stay out of the limelight and have a life, diminished but continuing to inspire those around him. The shooting, his exile, gets between Khaled and the rest of life, like looking through a window at it. The ending was oddly shocking in its quiet way, and made me want to start over. To give you a sense of tone, here's Khaled with Hosam, shortly after having finally met the writer working as a clerk at a hotel in Paris. They are two Libyans at a cafe, each suspicious of the other, wondering if he might be a Qaddafi agent--calling themselves Sam and Fred. And then 'Fred' begins to talk about himself, about the demonstration, as he never does in his usual life: "I regret attending," I said, and meant it, but was also wishing to absolve myself. "It's not true what some say, that dying, when in comes, bring with it its own acceptance. The opposite, if you ask me. It brings rebellion. Because you realize then that you've sent every day of your life learning how to live. That you don't know how to do anything else. Certainly not death. And I could see it, the blackness. And could see also how endless it was. But even that wasn't the worst of it. What horrified me was I knew then that part of me, a spot-of-consciousness, would survive and continue even after death, trapped within a nothing and silence for eternity." In other words, more exile. Here's a scene many years later, after Hosam has returned to Libya, after having attending his father's funeral (a well-known father who once denied his writer-son as part of a televised torture-confession): "In the days after the burial and the wake, Hosam returned to writing me emails. Thee in particular transported me home. I had never since leaving felt more vividly connected to my country. I realized then that I had always somehow anticipated this, perhaps even from as far back as when I was fourteen and first heard his story read on the radio, that he would be a medium, that we ask of writers what we ask of our closest friends, to help us mediate and interpret the world." This is not a flashy book, not packed with incident and thrills, not about the drama between characters, but unpacking a human life derailed by politics and yet buoyed by friendships. Read it in a quiet mood.

Here we have two untranslatable experiences. The first is friendship, which, like all friendships, one cannot fully describe to anyone else. The second is grief, which again, like all forms of grief, is horrible exactly for how uncommunicable it is. from My Friends by Hisham Matar I was mesmerized by this novel from the first sentences describing the parting of friends of twenty years. It was a short story by Hosam that opened Khaled to the power of words and inspired him to study English Literature. Walking home from the station after seeing Hosam off, Khaled muses on the arc of his life and his relationship with pivotal friends. Khaled won a scholarship to study English Literature at Edinburgh, where he met Mustafa, also from Benghazi. They attended an anti-Qaddafi protest and were shot. Now marked men, hiding from spies, Khalid couldn’t tell his family what happened and why he couldn’t return home. Khaled remembers the Edinburgh professor who befriended him; Rana, the Lebanese woman to whom he first he shared his secret and who later in life trusted him to keep hers; Claire, the English woman he loved and lost. He remembers the writers who shaped him; Hosam, recalling their early, deep friendship forged when they met in Paris, and Robert Louis Stevenson whose “ease of his sentences, which have the honest and vital momentum of nature” they both admired. During the Arab Spring, Khaled watched Mustafa and Hosam return to Libya join the fight against Qaddafi, both changed forever by the experience. But he could not leave the life he had made in England, knowing if he returned to Libya he would be a man without a country. With its themes of friendship, family, exile, literature, and love, this gorgeous and moving novel is one of my favorite 2023 reads. Thanks to the publisher for a free book.

“It is a myth that you can return, and a myth also that being uprooted once makes you better at doing it again.” My Friends is, at its heart, a singular type of love story: the story of a man living in exile who yearns for the country he grew up in and loves. In a Booker prize interview, the author says, “I gradually understand that the book was also a walk – a mapping of an exile, a city and a state of mind – that it both thematically as well as physically about friendship.” Indeed, as the book progresses, the reader feels a growing intimacy with Khaled (who is likely based a bit on Matar) and his two friends: the sardonic and impulsive Mustafa and Hosam, the author whose quixotic and metaphorical short story about a man being eaten alive by a cat alters Khalid’s life. As the novel unfolds, we twin with Khaled and feel the sadness and the caution that he is forced to live with . After attending a protest with Mustafa in (ironically) 1984, the year that officials inside the Libyan embassy in London’s St James’s Square fired a machine gun into a crowd of unarmed protesters, Khalid is injured. He becomes, literally and figuratively, a marked man. He cannot go back to the University of Edinburgh, where he is a student, and he cannot let his family know what happened since Qaddafi’s henchmen are likely listening in. He becomes a nomad, untrusting and unable to become close to anyone – except his two friends. The possibility of being truly free—the work it would take, the turns, conversations, and confessions—is onerous as he watches from a distance, a stranger sometimes even to himself, a “careful angel.” As he hobbles together a sort of life in London—eventually pursuing a career and even connecting to a girlfriend—part of him remains hidden. But on the horizon is the Arab Spring. And when it occurs, Khalid must face the truth: “The life I have made, for myself here is held together by a delicate balance. I must hold on to it with both hands. It is the only life I have now. I would have to abandon it to go back, and although I wish to abandon it, I fear I might not be able to reconstitute a new life.” This is a stunning book, all the more for its temperance and its meditative and often elegant prose. I was mesmerized by it and the courage it took to drill down to painful and guarded emotions with understanding and grace.

This amazing novel took me away to other lands and other ways of living. I read it for a week, savoring every page and nuance of the story. It was on the Booker Prize longlist and is a finalist for the National Book Award. Khaled, a young man born in Libya, becomes obsessed with the power of words as he listens to a short story by one of his countrymen read aloud on the radio. He journeys to Great Britain to study literature. At the time, Libya was under the dictatorship of Qaddafi. When Khaled attends a protest in London against Qaddafi, he is shot. He survives after a long hospital stay but realizes that he cannot return to Libya without endangering his parents and family. He eventually meets Hosam Zowa, the author of the story that changed his life and their deep though uneven friendship alters his life once again. Hosam and the rest of his friends become his family. A profound examination of the emotional tension of exile, this tale of Khaled’s life touched me to the core. I have not ever lived outside of the United States but some of my life choices have created variations on exile when it came to family and friends. The search for personal or political freedom at times creates loneliness but also builds a form of strength. Hisham Matar captures these truths in his incredible story

Such a poignant, fictional book by Libyan author, Hisham Matar. I happened upon this from a bookseller at an indie bookstore. One of those under the radar books that is sure to have a lot of acclaim attached to it. Really enjoyed seeing the historical fiction reflections on the Arab Spring. There’s so much I don’t know about Middle Eastern culture that I’m interested in learning more about. Beautifully written. The chapters are short and very digestible. Really great book, looking at more books by this author.

We live in a world of unreasonable men, where friendship is considered to be a kind of disposable relationship and published books often contain loud stories that scream their content. “My Friends” by Hisham Matar, will persuade you that reason still exists in our world, friendship can overcome difficulties and continue to inspire and that there are silent, “shy books”, that echo in our hearts and minds without making any considerable noise. Set in Libya, London and Paris, the book describes the relationship of a Libyan young man, Khaled, with his two friends, Mustafa and Hosam. Enriched with historic elements related to the Qaddafi regime, the shooting outside the London Libyan embassy in 1984 that resulted in the injury of many people and the death of a police officer named Yvonne Fletcher, the Libyan revolution and the civil war that broke out after the fall of tyranny, this book is a true masterpiece. The writing is phenomenal and the characters so well crafted that feel like real in the most magical way. And the ending is so stoic and moving that only if your heart is made of stone will not be affected. It is such a sentimental and achingly beautiful piece of art that will resonate with you and make you feel; feel real deep emotions. This is a book about friendship. The type of friendship that comes to an end or the other that endures all difficulties and survives. The fact that friendship equals trust and pleasure. Our wish to impress and blend in. Solidarity and competing allegiances. A story about family. Feeling safe and protected. The love for your parents and siblings that fills emotional gaps. Love as a place of rest. The stresses of being a parent. The fear of losing your family or becoming a danger for the people you love and care the most. It is also a book about war and occupying forces. Fascism, dictatorship, totalitarianism, and tyranny. Their detrimental effects on people; the silencing of voices, the kidnappings, the arrests, and the assassinations. About political prisoners and the fear of being always watched. History, politics and justice. Works of imagination and facts. It is also a book about the love for your country and fighting for it. About the connection you feel with your home. Rebellions, demonstrations and martyrdom. Political commitment and opposition. A story about living abroad or even in exile. Being uprooted and feeling lost. Diplomatic immunity, asylum, escape and anonymity. The fact that no one should ever be forced to leave their home. Nostalgia for your home country, living your life as a temporary pause and becoming a shadow. Mostly though, this is a book about the fragility of all things that we treasure. Living and acting. Diverting from your life and entering another. The transformative power a book/text can exert on you. The longing of returning home and freedom. How we leave our trace to the world and the fact that living is magical. This is a 4.5/5 for me! Why should you read “My Friends”? Because you will understand that, fortunately or unfortunately, from friendships to tyrants, everything has an end. Because you will feel how a particular day, is signalling the beginning of your future. Because you will accept that a confession of what happened to you sets you free and listening to someone saying that they are sorry is liberating. Because you will acknowledge that when someone trusts you with something important from their life, this is the greatest compliment they can pay you with. Because you will realise that escaping from your reality with the purpose of leaving behind the ghosts that haunt you, is pure fantasy. Because you will feel the burden of dealing with other people’s fears. Because you will understand that losing your ability to return home while you live abroad feels like dying. Because you will be saddened on the idea of living in a limbo, wishing to return home but being afraid of leaving what you have because of the possibility of not being able to reconstitute a new life. Favourite quotes: “No one is more capable of falsities nor as requiring of them than those who wish never to part ways”. “As foolish to think we are free of history as it would be of gravity”. “It takes a great deal of practice to learn how to live”. “He does not appear to see me, continues on his way. Or perhaps he did see me and the blackness in his eyes is the blackness we all carry deep within us towards those we love”. “It is almost always best to leave things be. Most problems have a habit of resolving themselves”. “The trick time plays is to lull us into the belief that everything lasts forever, and, although nothing does, we continue inside that dream”. “I must keep moving. To live is to act”. “Why would God want to reward absolute obedience, regardless of the consequences, when He had bestowed on us reason, granting us not only the ability but the responsibility to arrive at our own decisions?”. “It is difficult to kill a man, he told himself. Far more difficult than one suspects. And that is a hopeful fact: that life is on the side of life”. “…some books, like some people, are shy”. “It is impossible to trust someone whose face you cannot see, even someone you know well, perhaps especially someone you know well. And it must be easier to cause harm this way, that if one wanted to hurt someone, to wound them or end their life, the less one knew about their face, the better. Faces complicate things”. “A vast distance exists between a protester and his slogan; the entire history of politics exists in that gap”. “A mercy, I remember thinking, that we are made to tire at the end of each day”. “Anything is better than nothing. Life is unbearable otherwise”. “Independence, which I had up to then held in very high regard, indeed revered it, was now to me a curse, the devil himself. It is dependence that a sane mind should seek; to depend on others and be in turn dependable”. “To be from countries such as ours, Rana told him, is to continually feel obligation to explain them”. “Books everywhere smell the same”. “An immigrant’s test of discipline, most probably ancient, for this instinct to pass unnoticed, to veil oneself, must surely be as old as time, as old as exile, as old as when Adam and Eve, cast out of Eden and sent down on earth, were made to live on opposite sides of the empty planet”. “Is it not more revealing to observe a person clothed than naked?”. “It is not true what some say, that dying, when it comes, brings with it its own acceptance. The opposite, if you ask me. It brings rebellion. Because you realize then that you’ve spent every day of your life learning how to live”. “After a little silence he said, Friend. What a word. Most use it about those they hardly know. When it is a wondrous thing”. “Freedom, I told myself, is also the freedom not to be suspicious, not to fear and not to envy”. “That what I want to return to I cannot return to because the place and I have changed and what I have built here might be feeble and meek, but it took everything I had and I fear if I leave I will not have the will to return and then I will be lost again and I have been lost before and will do everything not to be that again and that I do not know if it os cowardly or courageous and I do not care and I have decided without deciding, because it is my only option, to keep to the days, to sleep when it is good for me to sleep and wake in good time to attend to my work and the people who depend on me”. “Sometimes to move forward you have to move back”. “Love is as much as miracle as it is an education”. “My ideal man, Malak said ponderingly. I am not sure what that means. I don’t want the ideal. I want complexity. I want passion. I want imperfection. My ideal man is not ideal”.

Exquisite, meditative and spellbinding. Hisham Matars voice shines — strong and compelling yet tender and moving. A timeless novel on political exile, friendship and family.

Sometimes you read a book that is so exquisitely beautiful and moving that you know it will stay with you long after you've finished it.- this is one of those books. This is a story about friendship and exile ; about three lives that are connected by an event and the power of writing and words. Khaled lives with his family in Libya- an educated, questioning family who are united in their appreciation of the writing of a young author called Hosam. When Khaled gets the opportunity to attend university in Edinburgh, he meets Mustafa and so begins a friendship that leads the two young men to be present at the Libyan Embassy siege in April 1984. The impact of this event changes the course of the men's lives ; they live in fear of reprisals and become exiles in London. The bond that ties them is deep and psychologically impacts upon their very existence. When Khaled chances upon meeting Hosam some years later in Paris, a new dynamic is formed that further deepens the connections between the three men. The stories of Khaled, Mustafa and Hosam are told through events over the next 30 years- each man struggling to find his place in an 'alien' society but also torn with inner conflict of not seeing family in Libya. The turmoils and decisions that need to be made by each of the men has a profound impact on each other. This is story that explores the impact of separation from loved ones, the isolation of being in a different country and observing what is happening to your 'homeland' from an outside perspective but most importantly the need for connection with others to make sense of what is happening in your own life and the wider world. Having read a Month in Siena by Hisham Matar, a stunningly moving book about the impact of art on life after tragedy, it was of no surprise that the prose of My Friends would be equally beautiful and emotional. It would take a hard heart not to be drawn in to Khaled's world and not feel the dilemmas he encounters- his emotions are palpable. This is a book not just about Libyans in exile but a message about displaced people today who live under the fear of what happens when you stand up against a regime and find your own personal identity is in many senses taken away. A book to slowly savour - powerful , emotional and deserving of any plaudits it should receive .

Book no.1 of 2025 is going to be seriously hard to top. A beautifully written story entwined with historical events makes this a captivating read with so much to offer, the complex relationships between friends and Libya’s revolution being at the forefront. I also really enjoyed this being set in London which allowed me to draw many connections to the city I now call home.

Slowly read, slowly moved, powerfully impacted.

My friends... I began to take pleasure again in teaching. My faith in literature too returned. Books, particularly great novels, never before seemed more practical to the business of living. Any doubts about that vanished. There's so much to say about a book that has so much to say about so many things, that I, poor creature, find myself at a loss, for there aren't enough words to say half the things I'd love to say about this book, because to say enough about this book would mean saying enough about the world, which is not possible. Because there is as much to say about the best books as there is to say about life itself, which is a lot, and not possible. And the greatest books say a lot about a lot of the things one would wish to say, or at least hear said, about the world, that one, reading them, prefers them, the books, to the world itself, for I am the kind of man who would rather see the painting of the clouds on a gorgeous August afternoon, than the clouds themselves, if the painting be good, and not merely a photograpic representation of the clouds. Ultimately great books don't just merely mirror the world but rather interpret it, or translate it, and make better that world by translation. For without the world, there is no art, no books, no poems, yet art, books and poems, if they are good, no, if they are great, are better than the world itself. The world itself is merely raw material, mostly undesirable, until transformed, no, not transformed but rather interpreted, or translated, by the artists that one loves in one's time. One's favourite artists are those that look upon the great murk of the world and translate it to them, in a language that is desirable to their ears, in a manner aligned to their tastes, in a rhythm true to their hearts. We tend to look at the artists we love with something of longing, for they say things in a way that is true not only to the world but to our hearts and spines, and James Joyce is gibberish to one man or woman and scripture to another. Hisham Matar interprets the world in this novel in language so desirable and so beautiful that it just about breaks my heart, and I'm at a loss for words. It is his mode, but not just that. It is his style, but not just that. There is something more, but what? The details of the plot won't do: it seems pretty common-place. I fear them, these plot reductions, and try to avoid them. For if I say that it is a novel about a young Libyan student who, in the aftermath of the April 17, 1984 protests outside the Libyan embassy in London, finds himself exiled from his country, and drawn evermore into the life of that new country, the poeple who become his lifelong friends, & so on, it will sound rather basic, rather thematic, meant to make a point, rather political, rather historical. You'll think, Dah, another history lesson. And who wants a history lesson? And yet it really is about a young student stranded in Britain,and so on. In the course of an evening, a man walks back to his flat in London, having bid farewell to his longtime friend who is on a detour to see London for the last time, meet his friend before going away to Francisco, where he hopes to bring up his family, having fought in the Libyan revolution, which has already ended as the book begins. This friend, Hosam Zowa, is a kind of Stephen Daedalus in his verbal acuity, in his great reticence, but of course closer to life than that Dublin titan. He speaks as if he had thought endlessly about everything and had found the fewest words to say the most about it all. It is in fact his reminiscences that form the book we are reading, his recollections of how he got where he is now. He remembers the beginnings of his relationships, their progress, in the unhurried and laxed pace of a man who has no reason at all to hurry, who hasn't got to be somewhere else. We imagine that he pauses in his walk to gaze and to remember, to find the words that were uttered as they were uttered, looking at the scenes around him, what it has all meant to him. But it is not the details of the walk, but the details of his mind as he walks, that are the book. There is Mustafa, his other friend, who was uprooted first from his country to seek education and his dreams in Europe, who returns to his country when it beckons, who leads the revolution that brings about the fall of the regime, who has undergone so great a change that he is no longer someone we know, who is now as big a part of Libya as he was of London as an exile. There is Rana, a girl from his Edinburg years who becomes a friend so truly and convincingly that we loose any skepticism about any sexual pretences in their relationship, which is as pure as friendships go. There is Hannah, his lover, but more friend than lover. Someone has pointed out that this novel is neither an elegy in the mode of Tennyson's In Memoriam A.H.H., nor a Shakespearean tragedy. Nor is it a satire or a historical treatise. It is a celebration of life and love, it is a reaffirmation of what Alan Bloom (Love and Friendship)means when he talks about love being the "overwhelming attraction of one person to another." There is such a great force between these characters, so drawn to one another are they that we, watching them, cannot but envy their love. But it is also a celebration of literature and literary love. The characters in this book are as bookish and vigorous about knowledge and literature as no other. So many books and writers are mentioned. A lady in here has memorised poems by the yard, so that at one point we realise too late that she isn't so much speaking as reciting a poem, in answer to a question she's answering. It is through an article published in a rare periodical about translation that Khaled, our guy, makes up his mind to study literature abroad. It is through their shared bond of literature and the stories that Hosam Zowa wrote that they come to be friends. The Epistles of Forgiveness, an ancient Arabic text that anticipated Dante's poem of the descent into hell, is mentioned countless times. Yet Matar is not trying to educate us. He is not giving us a lecture in postcolonial literature. These are the writers and books that have meant the most ro him, and they are entwined with his mind's workings inevitably. His walk through London is akin to the walks of that learned man in The Rings of Saturn, where every sight conjures in his mind an entire history. This, in that manner, is a celebration of London too. We feel that the city itself is a friend to Khaled, as much as are his two closest friends. "Love," someone says towards the end, "is as much a miracle as it is an education." In the end we have not just witnessed a miracle of artistic creation, but also undergone an education in the power of love and friendship. It does more than compensate for the bad books I have read recently. It is a world entire.

Author Hisham Matar’s recent novel My Friends has appeared on many “best books” lists and been nominated for numerous awards. It explores the nature of friendship and the theme of exile as Khaled Abd al Hady leaves Libya to study in the University of Edinburgh. The novel begins as Khaled is meeting with his longtime friend Hosam, as Hosam is leaving London to visit Paris before moving to California - “America, the country from where people never return”. As Khaled walks back from the station, he thinks back on his life in Libya, his friendship with Hosam and Mustafa, and Khaled’s thirty-two years in London. It’s a beautifully written book. I read it slowly, and it didn’t matter because the plot is fairly straightforward, but it allowed time to savor Matar’s words. Although a novel, the book in infused with actual events. He mentions the kidnapping of Salim el Lozi, Lebanese journalist who was tortured and killed. A central highlight is the April 17, 1984 shooting of Libyan students in London as they protest against the rule of dictator Muammar Qaddafi, an event I did not recall from the past. Hosam, “Friend. What a word. Most use it about those they hardly know. When it is a wondrous thing.”

oh how I love some historical political fiction. best book in a while honestly. deeply complex, spanning 30 ish years of Libyan politics. the door has been opened and I’m ready for some more Hisham Matar.

All my reviews live at https://deedireads.com/. My Friends had been on my TBR for months, so I was especially excited when it was nominated for both the Booker Prize and the National Book Award. I had a ton of friends who had loved it, so it was no surprise that I loved it too. The book is about a man named Khaled who found himself exiled from his home country of Libya after attending a protest in London against the Gaddafi regime. Decades later, as he walks home from bidding his good friend Hosam goodbye likely forever, he reflects on his life in London and his friendship with both Hosam and a man named Mustafa. Even though political violence is a central theme, this is a quiet novel full of notably beautiful prose. It’s about friendship, revolution, and the power of art and writing in the face of injustice. I think it’s especially interesting because Matar himself lived in London after being exiled from Gaddafi’s Libya, and while the book isn’t autobiographical, the authenticity of the emotions and experiences is palpable. There were some portions of this book that felt more engaging than others, but overall it was a gorgeous reading experience and I’m disappointed that it didn’t make the cut for the Booker Prize shortlist! Content and Trigger Warnings: War (the Gaddafi regime in Libya); Gun violence & trauma

This book took me by surprise. It dealt with the theme of grief in a different and understated way that I haven’t encountered in a novel before. It’s very easy for readers to not even know that’s what the book is even about. Maybe this novel hit hard because of my dad’s recent passing and my trying to figure out my complicated feelings. But I think this novel was successful in depicting grief in a devastatingly honest manner. It demonstrates that more times than not grief is not show-offy or outwardly expressive. Sometimes it is revealed in deceptively mundane conversations we participate in. Sometimes it is revealed in our fixations with newfound activities and shiny new things. Sometimes it is revealed when we think we are alone but don’t realize someone is there to witness. If you just look a little closer, you might catch a glimpse or an expression that disappears just as quickly as it had arrived. This book was gorgeous and fascinating and perceptive. Especially when you watch out for how each of the characters, this family, deals with their grief. And believe me, every single character is dealing with this. And they are revealed subtly at different times of the book, and at multiple times throughout the duration of this book. A quietly unique coming of age story that I’ll be thinking about for a very, very long time.

Seems all my Goodreads pals are rather underwhelmed with this one and I’m out on a limb by my lonesome here! No problem with that though. Sometimes we need something to save us, and finding it, or something that will serve for it at any rate, we grasp hold tightly. This short novel explores that dynamic with great empathy, building care for characters who are completely unfamiliar to me in one sense (British-Indian Jains) though my fellow humans in the deeper more important sense, and through an activity in the sport of squash that was only slightly more recognizable to me than the mostly incomprehensible sport of cricket. This learning opportunity added additional interest in my case (I’ve read novels that describe cricket of course; nothing doing). With connections to Claire Keegan and Yiyun Li one could expect Maroo to produce a certain sort of quiet detailed prose and this she mostly has done in this her debut. The father’s emotionally bottled up distance was painfully evoked in brief passages of text throughout, most notably. An emphasis on sound was another thing I noticed. Here in the very opening page sound, and its lack, are used to suggest the father’s distance, and that which saves. My father was standing far back, waiting. I knew from his silence that he wasn’t going to move first, and all I could do was serve and volley or disappoint him. The smudges on the wall blurred one into the other and I thought that surely I would fall. That was when it started up. A steady, melancholy rhythm from the other court, the shot and its echo, over and over again, like some sort of deliverance. I could tell it was one person conducting a drill. And I knew who it was. I stood there, listening, and the sound poured into me, into my nerves and bones, and it was with a feeling of having been rescued that I raised my racket and served. I enjoyed this more than the elaborately decorative prose of Harding, for sure, but we’ll see what else the Booker longlist has to offer!

I am as surprised as anyone that I enjoyed a book featuring squash as much as I did. It is more than squash, but I was truly captivated by the squash! This is also a book about a father and daughters and although the mother is dead (a trope I don't love) she is still very much a part of the family (view spoiler). In fact, for such a short book, every relationship is more complex than I'd expect it to be, and the adults (especially Pa and her uncle) have a gentleness to them that I think we experience in real life but doesn't often show up in literature. Can you tell I loved this? I did! I'd certainly recommend this for fans of Foster and A Girl Returned.

Thanks to Netgalley and FSG for the ebook, a close knit Indian family in England loses their mother, leaving behind her husband and three young daughters. The father, in order to distract from the grief and bring some sort of structure to his daughters, vigorously trains them in the sport of squash. The youngest, Gopi, at thirteen, really takes to the sport and shows enough talent to enter a local squash tournament. This short novel moves quickly with rich characters, none better than our young narrator, Gopi, as she watches her family start to slowly crack from their collective grief.

"Quiet" is the word that I keep seeing in reviews of Western Lane, presumably because not a lot happens. A grieving family finds a way to move on. But in that quiet writing I found a comfortable homeyness that sucked me in. I thought the characters were well-developed and the writing was excellent. Western Lane is a short book but an enjoyable one. Though I'm not a squash player being a sports fan probably helped me appreciate that narrative more than most, but I'm surprised more people haven't been able to appreciate a really beautiful book.

This was absolutely gorgeous. The connection I felt to Gopi was so strong which is incredible for such a short novel. For me, the length was one of its strengths; it allowed me to fill in some of the emotional blanks, where what isn’t said or events that aren’t written about are still present and stronger for their absence.

I quite loved it; made me think about how internalized racism can (and does) stifle young girls' potential, though i'm not sure if it was the message or if i'm projecting lmao

When you look at this cover you see two girls curled up -foetal position- in a mosaicked well; sunken, sullen, somber. But after closing the end paper, & taking in this quiet yet profoundly moving tale, you see a girl -a ying, a yang- that curves into focus, into a reflection of grief, coming of age and stepping into her livelihood. Tethered to her relationship to squash, routine, her sisters and her father, we witness how Gopi, a well of devoted love, innocence and loyalty to her family, silently pieces together what it means to be a young girl attached to unsaid feelings, deep sadness and a sense of selflessness. I’m not someone who ticks all the booker shortlists off of her reading list - if anything they end up in my pile through recommendations. When I read about Western Lane in a NYT review earlier this year by Ivy Pochoda, there was a line, “Language is hampered by stammers and cultural barricades as well as by things too scary and distressing to sound out”, which is so particular to the shape of grief, to the lull of loss and to the creature of childhood. It’s in the acute interactions between our parents, in their sighs, blank stares, pauses and hidden worries that we grow up. A risk of expression is almost like the risk of realisation - too fragile, too costly; you’d rather keep it tucked in the hollows of hope and delusion where it is safe and yours. You will find yourself thumbing through these pages like flipping through stored memories. What an all-consuming debut 🤍 ❛I thought this was how a wake must feel, both sad and happy, and everyone’s throats hot, and all their thoughts touching.❜

Very weird very bizarre. My favourite was the novella I lived in the slums like nothing I've ever read before. But liked all the short storys especially the first part of the book and they all have some link to do with bottomless pits, stoves, rats or not knowing where you are. Even has a telltale heart retelling. Excellent fever dream. My book of the year

This short novel follows Ferdinand, Ossiri and Kassoum across two generations of Ivorians and their decision t become security guards in France in the 1960s-2000s, right up until 9/11. The book jumps between narrative chapters of prose depicting their lives, particularly their experiences in getting their positions as security guards, coming to France and setting about creating their lives and chapters that read like theatre notes or character descriptions focusing on the customers of a Sephora store with security guards, tourists, teenagers, other employees and other members of the public. It is funny, sets you in a time and place with skill, makes you care about what the fate of the characters will be and gives an insight into the effects of 9/11 on certain African immigrants to France (Europe). I enjoyed this immensely, read it fast, would re-read and definitely recommend.

I couldn't write about this book because so many different thoughts kept tumbling through my mind. Paris from the perspective of immigrants - illegal and otherwise, working as security guards and in other service industry jobs, is a different city. The high end shops where the rich from different countries come to shop, the products on offer, are so far removed from those who guard them. These people come from former colonies in the hope of a better life obviously but are ground down by the reality. Which brought thoughts of what I had grown up witnessing, people in my country after partition and again after the Bangladesh war, seeking refuge, working hard at jobs they had never thought they'd have to do, living in places where they would never otherwise have lived, helplessly having to put up with cruel remarks about their accent, their food, their manners which naturally had regional differences. Somehow all of those memories surfaced as I read this book. My admiration for the courage, perseverance and steadfastness that immigrants/refugees show is very deep.

This book does what it says on the tin: the magic truly is in the details. Some will say this is a novel where "nothing happens" but I think that's actually the point. The Details encourages us to slow down and stop looking at the big picture of life, disrupting the linear model of the novel and instead focusing on four individual people in one woman's immediate circle, divided into four sections respectively. This is about the impression each person has on our lives, and the rich tapestry of idiosyncrasies, habits, hobbies, and traits that make up a person. In hermetic, crystalline prose, Ia Genberg contemplates what it is to be human and to exist in the world, as well as in a community. I loved it and couldn't put it down. My pen rank out of ink because there were so many quotes I underlined. Ultimately, it asks the question: "Who is the real subject of a painting, the person being painted or the one holding the brush?" Easy 5/5

Do you have a novel that is inextricably linked to a time and place in life where even just the thought of it, siphons up emotions across time? Suffering from a fevered state, the narrator in Ia Genberg’s The Details experiences such a voyage down memory lane on the wings of literature and observes that ‘some books stay in your bones long after their titles and details have slipped from memory.’ This striking and succinct Swedish novella was awarded he August Prize for fiction in 2022 and was shortlisted for the 2024 International Booker in its impressive English translation from Kira Josefsson. A story sure to stir the souls of those with a profound fondness for the written word for its examination of the connections we form with books and with whom we read them, The Details is also a deeply soul-searching investigation on the ways the self is shaped by those around us. The way we ‘let them become part of me’ becomes the thread the narrator untangles across this non-linear novella. With acute observations and majestic prose, Genberg’s The Details is a moving look at the way we carry the past with us and ‘that in some sense no relationship ever ends.’ ‘In one way life begins anew each day and every second but is also true I keep returning to the same places in myself.’ I cannot help but swoon at the way Genberg’s examination of the self is informed by the novels one has read. In bed with a vague illness, the narrator reaches for an old copy of Paul Auster’s The New York Trilogy only to find herself pulled back two decades previous down the halls of memory by an inscription from her then-girlfriend, Johanna, who gifted her the book during a similar state of illness. Her fever burns across the pages in the intensity of the prose and the feverish fashion in which the story avoids linearity as ‘time folds in on itself’, not progressing along a chronological plot but instead circling the timeline as ideas leap into others. ‘As far as the dead are concerned, chronology has no import and all that matters are the details, the degree of density, this how and what and everything to do with who.’ It presents a wider scope of the narrator’s “self” with all the different pasts and present spiraling together. But it also becomes a method to juxtapose the people she knew with the ways the their fingerprints on her life present themselves later. ‘That's all there is to the self, or the so-called 'self': traces of the people we rub up against,’ she observes and this is, essentially, the core lesson of the The Details: that we are made of, quite literally, of small details. ‘That’s where this sharper sense of being alive is found, in the alert gaze on another.’ Books are an important part of the relationships examined in The Details. ‘Literature was our favorite game,’ she thinks about her time with Johanna, ‘hermetic but nimble, both simple and twisted, at once paranoid and crystalline, and with an open sky between every word.’ Later, a battered copy of Birgitta Trotzig’s Dykungens dotter is all that remains after her roommate Niki vanishes from her life. Books, like relationships, are an ephemeral affair, but highly significant. ‘the ownership of books was distinct from other types of ownership, more like a loan that might run out or be transferred onto someone else at the drop of a hat.’ I enjoy how Genberg has books serving as monuments to moments that would be lost to time if books weren’t also a portal of memory and emotional resonance. The story moves through four key figures in her life. There is the aforementioned ex-girlfriend, who she will later feel a sense of betrayal from when during an interview she claims to have never liked Paul Auster. Next is Niki, a roommate with an intensity ‘as if the full cast of Greek gods and all the emotions and states they represented had been crammed in behind her eyelids.’ Then there is the relationship with Alejandro that strikes and leaves like a storm. ‘our relationship was the length of a breath and yet he stayed with me, as if there was something in me that bent around him, a new paradigm for all my future verbs.’ The push and pull between temporality and legacy creates an excellent emotional tension, particularly as the juxtaposition of Alejandro’s brevity in the text with the lasting impact from their collision of selves. Finally we come to Birgitte and issues of trust, with Birgitte’s anxieties that are not all that unlike a description of the narrative structure of the novel: ‘to run ahead and touch everything, circle potentialities with the intention of preventing them from happening, on and on and on in a process that never stops.’ Though while the book explores these four characters, what we gain most of is an understanding of the narrator as reflected back in them and through them. It becomes like those fun-house hall of mirrors, where each person is made up of the residue left from each encounter with others and reflecting each other back upon one another until where one ends and the other begins starts to blur. ‘And I suppose that's what's at the heart of it for every person suffering from anxiety; the fact that life, by its very nature, is impossible to manage.’ Not unlike the relationships in the novel, The Detail is brief yet powerful. A wonderful examination of the self and the way we shape and are shaped by those around us as well as a lovely tribute to the power of literature, this is a truly moving and thought provoking work. The love of literature shines brightly here. Oh, and in regards to my opening question, Crime and Punishment, 2666 and The Passion all transport me to the moment of my first read with them. This book also made me realize how much I enjoy the connection with people here on goodreads and the conversations and discussions we share. Thank you to books, thank you for all of you. 4.5/5

This book delves deep into the roles of identity, deception, and what is real versus perceived. Each of the characters in the book is created intelligently with both their actions and what motivates them being swathed in ambiguity and intrigue. With the audiobook, we are able to get an inward look into the thought processes of the characters and the mystery that is unfolding. For fans of psychological thrillers who are looking for an audiobook that will not only maintain the suspense but also get deeply into the content, ("The Details" Audiobook) is a great exploration of the deep crevices of the human mind. For readers and listeners who are doing this for commutes or just want to pass some time from the comfort of their own home.

It seems like every year I get to discover (at least) one amazing Scandinavian writer. It was Hanne Ørstavik last year and this year, thanks to the International Booker Prize short list, it's Ia Genberg. She claims to focus on the details, not on the "important" things, but she gives such "dense meaning" (as her translator puts it) to the details that make the map with no precise edges of our lives that I sometimes forgot to breathe while reading. As for the writing itself - this is my favourite kind, long, poetic sentences but with complete clarity. It feels like there could not possibly be one word less or one more needed. P.S. oh, and what about the books that she mentions in every chapter, a library within a book, what a treat for booknerds.

“We live so many lives without our lives – smaller lives with people who come and go, friends who disappear, children who grow up – and I never know which of these lives is meant to serve as the frame…my “self” recedes and gives space to a nameless joy, a unified whole that preserves all the details.” An unnamed narrator, in the grip of an intense fever, recalls her relationship with four people who were integral to her life. Life, one might say, is a fever dream and as we settle into it, everything we look for is right here, right inside us, inside the things that surround us. This is a book where, to paraphrase Gustave Flaubert, the devil is in the details, where the simple beginnings of a relationship become more complex or require more than expected. Ia Genberg characterizes the beginnings and endings of relationships in four character-driven portraits: Johanna, an early literature-loving ex whose intense personality and public persona make our narrator overlook their unequal relationship; Niki, an “unhinged” strong-personality housemate who drops the narrator just as facilely as she claims her at the beginning; Alejandro, the father of the narrator’s firstborn who lived without plans and promises and without any sense of the future; and finally, Birgitte, the most consequential person in the narrator’s life for reasons each reader should discover for themselves. We never really learn the narrator’s details – why our narrator chose these intense people as the framework for her life. We do get a sense of the four people who are, in turn, frosty (Johanna), unhinged (Niki), messy (Alejandro) and anxious (Birgitte). We are left wondering what their inclusion in the narrator’s life means about her own mental health, but that is not a fault of the author; rather, it leaves the reader curious and enthralled. I will add this: the book is also a fever dream for avid readers because the author makes clear that it is novels, as well as people that have touched her life. “Literature was our favorite game,” she says early on in reference to her ex-girlfriend Joanna. I’ve made a list of the books she mentions, from Paul Auster’s “The New York Trilogy” to Birgitta Trotzig’s “The Marsh King’s Daughter.” There must be dozens! Belying its spareness, the book looms large, filled with exquisite details and heat that sears into the reader’s consciousness. It is astoundingly good.

Can you choose one life over another... ...or, can you consider all lives that cross your path to be an indispensable influence in the construct of your distinctiveness as a human being? Why, yes. I'm going to open up with a deeply thought-provoking, mind-blowing question. I like to stimulate you. Your mind, that is. What else would I be stimulating? (Don't answer that.) "We live so many lives within our lives—smaller lives with people who come and go, friends who disappear, children who grow up—and I never know which of these lives is meant to serve as the frame." There are a multiplicity of common types of relationships that can be found in any life; the 4 selected relationships below form the basis of this perceptive book, The Details, by Ia Genberg, (tr. from the Swedish by Kira Josefsson) proving her to be an astute observer of the human condition. The "reliable" relationship. It is the lover that you think is there to stay, the one you feel you can rely on—until they say "bye, bye, bye." (You bet I just made an NSYNC reference.) The "unreliable" friend. They are an esoteric and misunderstood person, but somehow you "get" each other. Your friendship is a whirlwind until it all ends in a flurry of hurt, confusion, and misunderstandings. (Think Angelina Jolie's character in Girl, Interrupted.) The "lustful" relationship. You know what I'm talking about; this is the one that's all sex and desire and feeling a certain way. You think you will never be able to achieve this type of love/lust ever again with anyone else. Just as fast as it begins—it ends—they're gone with the same tornado that brought them into your life. (Do I really need to give an example here?) The "wildcard" figure. This is the friend or family member that's supposed to be there for you, to take care of you when you need it. Instead, their troubles are so abundant that the role ends up being reversed—you take care of them—or they are nearly completely absent from your life as a result of their turmoil. (The mom from "Carrie") Our unnamed narrator, while in a fever of sickness, reflects on all of these relationships (and more) that have been fundamental in sculpting her life. Instead of just viewing the "big picture," she instead focuses on the minutiae of kindnesses given or received, of unexpected interactions, or of the incidentals that make a connection to another person so unique and influential. It is our perception of the trivial details that forms the strongest interpersonal bonds. I think I connected with this book so deeply because I have experienced every one of these types of relationships myself at some point, at least once, if not multiple times. Can you say you have not had any of these sorts of people in your life? The context of this book is an embrace that was unaware of its necessity. Reading it is a way to make sense of all of the people who have passed through our lives—to also find peace in letting them go or joy in the length of time that they are lingering—but most importantly to learn acceptance of that which we are unable to control. Permit me to return to the trivial details for a moment. What is a life if it is not in the details of the prosaic daily experiences? The vast majority of us do not lead lives replete with excitement in every moment—traveling, abundant friendships, popularity, celebrity status, etc. For everyone outside of the 1% or 2%—or whatever percentage it is—meaning is sought in what can be shared day in and day out in our homes and the workplace. It is the interactions with and the understanding of the mundane. This is where kindness comes into play. If we are to measure our lives by the interactions we partake in daily, should we not make each of these moments count as if they were spent on the shimmering coast of a Greek isle? Imperceptible moments supersede monumental ones. It is effortless to spend 1,000 moments being kind—and it retains superior efficacy—over a single moment consumed with sadness. Despair has a greater cost. This novel, as many have of late, is making me think deeply, and for that I am grateful. The author is deserving of high acclaim for writing such an enjoyably short but mentally stimulating piece of literature. Some last thoughts on my way out... Why do we willingly choose to let people go that have made such an impact on our lives? Is it because we can't tolerate them any longer or because we can't tolerate ourselves?

This is one of those novels that, if you're able to give it enough attention, will change the way you look at your relationship with literature. Most of the other reviews I've skimmed for this book mention the line that says ‘some books stay in your bones long after their titles and details have slipped from memory'. This book is truly an ode to that. In the same vein, the main character examines how the relationships we grow through leave marks - if not entire bits of itself - behind. And while her stories are specific to her life, I saw my reflection in the characters. When I didn't see myself, it was often just as easy to see someone from my own past. Our relationships are all different. But are they really? I feel more and more like we all just encounter our own versions of the same few characters needed to teach life lessons. Sometimes just the person sticks. Sometimes the person and the lesson. If you're lucky, just the lesson. I think that's part of the point here, literature can stake a claim to influential moments or relationships regardless. What you take in - from both books and people - become so engrained in who you are that some form of it is still there even when your body is shutting down due to intense fever. The inclusion of this illness, this fever, lent to how innate our linking of a point in time to what we read then, how we felt. This may not make sense to anyone, but for me this was one of those books where I could continue reading while simultaneously reflecting back on my own life. If you've ever experienced a terrible fever yourself, try to settle back into that headspace while reading this. How well written and translated this is put me in a similar, open space. I haven't read any of the works the main character references, and I'm glad. I fear I would have become preoccupied searching for parallels, instead of appreciate Ia Genberg's words. Just wanted to throw that out there as far as the books mentioned by the main character.

can i please read it for the first time all over again?

I think the low ratings and generally negative reaction to this book is more of a reflection of the western and or European audience who have picked this up, likely expecting something different from what it is. I myself am one of them, but I think how I approached this book, and just my own reading preferences, played a big part in why I loved this as much as I did. If you aren't familiar with the community of Indian Muslims here, or Islamic religious practices, beliefs, customs, or laws, then this book will be VERY difficult to understand, especially as the translation itself, while masterfully done, doesn't give the reader much in the way of easy explanations for many words or references. If you want to understand what's going on, you need to be actively interested in learning more about the society being portrayed here, and you need to be curious in googling what things mean. For people completely unaware, this book forces the reader to actively engage with the text and learn to piece together the pieces in each of the stories that often go unsaid, but with context give each story so much more flavor and meaning. It's a beautiful book, not perfect per se, it doesn't read like it was ever meant to be a cohesive collection together, and a couple of stories dragged for me, but for the most part this is an incredible read, and one that is highly worthy of its Booker Prize victory. An important milestone in literature- outstanding.

“Be a woman once, oh Lord!” — a line that lingers long after the page is turned. Heart Lamp by Banu Mushtaq, winner of the International Booker Prize 2025, is a quietly powerful collection of stories about Muslim women in southern India. With gentle yet piercing prose, Mushtaq captures their silences, strength, and small acts of resilience. Subtle, haunting, and deeply human — a book that speaks softly but leaves a lasting echo.

A very emotionally draining but memorable collection of short stories. Banu writes of the many struggles of women in strong patriarchal communities, and Deepa masterfully translated all of these moving stories into the English language. I did not mind that many words were left untranslated, especially those displaying characteristic familial relations, piece of clothing worn locally or food made, in fact the Kannada words only transcribed in English enriched the reading experience.

This was such a difficult read, not because the writing was bad, but because of the sheer absurdity of the different types of violence women face in the book and the fact that most of these stories were inspired by the cases the author has fought in real life.

so beautifully written

Very happy to know Kannada has an amazing writer and I get to read her stories. it has its flaws and some things are lost in translation but still the short stories had a soul. every story reflected the Indian family setup and how we navigate it. I see the criticism that the stories are similar but isn't that the reality? Every woman has a similar story but has her own set of struggle and how are we to neglect it. it's important to read and acknowledge it

₊˚ ✧ ━━━━⊱ international booker prize shortlist 2025⊰━━━━ ✧ ₊˚ book 1 : ‘heart lamp’ by banu mushtaq ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ 1/2 I really enjoyed this book! I love reading short story collections and I love reading about families & the relationships between people and I love Indian fic, so this was such a perfect read for me. This isn’t something I usually pick up on, but since it is on the International Booker Prize shortlist it garners a mention, the translation work is absolutely superb. I really love how the translator kept in some Kannada words, and also kept the whole vibe of Indian language, it really added to the reading experience.

While it won the International Booker, the reviews here and on SM were pretty underwhelming, which kind of kept my expectations low. But right from the get go, Mushtaq's stories, translated brilliantly by Deepa Bhasthi take you by the scruff of the neck and give you pauses only between the stories. The stories themselves are rooted in the everyday, people dealing with just living their lives. And in a way you could say the common theme is the plight of Muslim women, where they have few rights. With a lesser writer they could have easily become one story after the other detailing the same horrors. But Mushtaq doesn't let them, or rather Bhasthi chooses her stories to translate keeping that in mind. One thing to remember, short stories are written over a long time, the curator, the translator in this case, needs to have an idea of how they'll read together in a collection. Bhasthi's translation makes the Kannada leap out and dance in English. There are the 'it seems', things are black-black. I especially loved the work in Black Cobras which is also by far the best story in the set. But despite all that it is a dark book, holding little in the form of hope. The last story and its last line captures it perfectly. "Come to earth as a woman, Prabhu! Be a woman once, O Lord!"

It’s so Bob. So, so Bob. Delightfully Bob. Encouragingly Bob. Presumably Bob.

Oh I was very entertained. Hilarious, clever, what a bunch of characters. Bob’s done it again! Am I right?

The shoe was indeed frighteningly long

A very Bob Mortimer book! The introduction of Goodmonson. Faint traces of theft and shrubbery. A long shoe. A fun read. Lovely to be inside Bob’s head for 4 days.

GENUINE REVIEW- READ ON DAY OF RELEASE. Fans of the Satsuma Complex and The Hotel Avocado will absolutely love this quirky, funny, brilliant page turner by the wonderful Bob Mortimer. I laughed out loud and couldn’t put it down. Absolutely brilliant. Matt is a brilliant character and I hope there is a sequel. The characters and the whole story was genius. Genuinely one of the best books I’ve read all year.

It's Bob Mortimer. Need I say more?

Just love how silly these books are

Audiobook 🤌🏻 My favourite one of his to date. So Bob, so funny and cosy at the same time!

Always love a Bob Mortimer book and this one was no exception 👏

Bob’s a bonafide genius obviously. I don’t think it would be the same to read the physical book rather than listen to the audio version, which I did, and it was hilarious to hear him do all the voices and put his heart and soul into the performance. Like having him actually sat in my kitchen with me telling his tall tales whilst I cook my chickpea curry. I’m going to be calling it ‘nutflix’ from now on and if you don’t listen to the long shoe soon then you’re missing out, am I right?

Another 2 week read 😎 can I call myself a reader now? Bob Mortimer is a delightful man with even more delightful books! Ben bought me this because the first line talked about wanting eggs, and it only got better from there. The storyline is mediocre at best but the writing is superb at worst, I recommend for a silly read

He did it again! Bob eases you in immediately, making you feel like Matt/Jigsaw is an old friend you've bumped into who takes you along the long, bumpy, laugh out loud tale of The Long Shoe and its array of quirky characters - I particularly loved Hotdog and the bath scene, "am I right?"! Can't wait for whatever Bob comes up with next!

I cannot get enough of Bob and his normal boring everyday stories which when touched by Bob become magically hilarious and wild. I audio book these as he narrates them and does little voices for each character in which you cannot avoid belly chuckling at. Bravo at another successful write. Keep it coming.

This was fascinating

“Like looking at one’s reflection in two facing mirrors, it is impossible to say where the first female athlete began and where they will end.” ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ It feels like this book punched *me* in the face. Rita Bullwinkel’s HEADSHOT follows the events of The Daughter’s of America boxing tournament. It is structured as a tournament bracket, each chapter following a different fight. In each fight, we learn about each girl, bouncing back and forth between past, present, and future as punches are thrown. Your alliances will shift. You will want each girl to win. Only one can. I loved the way this was written. Even though it is such a short moment in time, we see so much of the girls’ inner lives, desires, and fears. We see what has brought them to the ring and what they will become out of it. And we are rooting for them through it all. The final chapter was the winning blow. Outstanding. (Thank you to the author & publisher for the early copy. I am not worthy!)

This might be my sleeper hit of Booker season 2024. Although I know my enthusiasm isn’t shared by all, I really loved this gritty story of a young women’s boxing tournament in Reno. It is a story about 8 teenage, female boxers, and explores how they have found themselves in the sport, and in the ring in this tournament in front of a small audience. Bullwinkel’s story looks at how small and big moments in our lives lead to other, considers complex families, poverty, the trials of adolescence and identity, female aggression, and the issues in youth and women’s sport. It’s told in dispassionate, direct prose that reminded me often of Kick the Latch (which I also loved). Highly evocative of place, and very sensory. I think it would stand up well to a re-read. Not for everyone perhaps but lots to enjoy for some.

Quirky, cool book about women’s boxing. Well written, under the radar book that was recommended to me!

A short, powerful, gripping and at times brutal read! The characters were drawn vividly, their backstories moving, and the plot moved on one step and punch at a time. Original!

really liked this! probably closer to a 4 than a 5 iffff i’m really being honest but i’ve given worse books 4 stars in the very recent past so i’ll be generous. do love what bullwinkel accomplishes here though - youth, urgency, the Now of it all, anchored by characters who (as she continually reminds you) will go on to lead reasonably mundane lives & will age & will ultimately die. it’s a little gutting because that’s pretty much how it goes for more or less everyone; to juxtapose that sobering fact with the irrepressible vitality of teen girl boxers serves v effectively to heighten both. definitely read if you liked jen silverman’s we play ourselves and/or kick the latch by kathryn scanlan and you want to read something that’s kind of like both but also completely not the same thing at all

I don’t know if Treacle Walker is for children or grownups but the tale grabbed hold of me at once. A boy having a lazy eye disorder meets a mysterious rag-and-bone man who possesses wondrous abilities… There was a white pony in the yard. It was harnessed to a cart, a flat cart, with a wooden chest on it. A man was sitting at a front corner of the cart, holding the reins. His face was creased. He wore a long coat and a floppy high-crowned hat, with hair straggling beneath, and a leather bag was slung from his shoulder across his hip. From the junkman the boy gets a chipped jar and a donkey stone… The ragpicker enters the house and miracles start happening… The junk dealer is gone and things go awry… When Treacle Walker – that is rag-and-bone man – appears again the boy tells him about all the weird mishaps… I’ve got a pain in my eye. I can’t see proper. And I go down the bog and get stuck; and this chap with no clothes on and a daft silly hat, he sits up in the water and he makes no more sense than you do. Many strange events occur before things go straight again… Or do they ever? “What’s out is in. What’s in is out.” Every why has a wherefore.

'Treacle Walker?' said Thin Amren, 'Treacle Walker. Me know that pickthank psychopomp? I know him, so I do. I know him. Him with his pots for rags and his bag and his bone and his doddering nag and nookshotten cart and catchpenny oddments. Treacle Walker? I’d not trust that one’s arse with a fart.’ Treacle Walker opens with a boy (or is he still a boy?) Joseph Coppock in his house when he hears the cry of a rag and bone man. 'Rag and bone' said the man. 'And you shall have pot and stone. That's fair. Or isn't it?' Joe gives the man, the frustratingly enigmatic Treacle Walker, an old pair of pyjamas and a lamb's shoulder blade from his 'museum', largely a collection of birds' eggs. In turn he is invited to take his pick from a magical treasure chest of ornate cups, saucers, platters and jugs, but picks the most plain: Joe took out every piece and laid them on the cart. ‘This,’ said Joe. ‘That is the least,’ said the man. ‘It’s the bestest.’ Joe held a round jar no bigger than his hand. ‘It is small,’ said the man. ‘I don’t care.’ ‘Of little price.’ ‘I don’t care. It’s grand. Grand as owt.’ The jar was white, glazed, and chipped. Under the rim was painted in blue: ‘Poor Mans Friend’, and beneath, ‘price 1/ 1 ½’. On the other side was: ‘Prepared only by Beach & Barnicott, SUCCESSORS TO THE LATE Dr. Roberts, Bridport.’ [link to picture] And he is given a donkey stone (used traditionally to scour stone steps): The man opened his bag and took something out. ‘Here.’ It was a stone, rough and grey, the size and shape of a bar of soap. ‘Blinking heck.’ He put the stone into Joe’s hand. One side was plain; on the other was cut the outline of a horse, legs and tail outstretched, head forward, long. ‘We are equal. The trade is done.’ ‘And what am I supposed to do with this effort?’ said Joe. ‘Use it.’ ‘How?’ ‘As you have need.’ ‘You’re twitting me,’ said Joe. ‘I’m going in. I mustn’t catch the sun.’ ‘You would be swift to outrun that one,’ said the man. ‘The craven nidget who flees the dark and will not come back till morning.’ [link to picture] (The donkey stone pictured actually has a lion branding, from Eli Whalley & Co, who at their peak in the 1930s manufactured 2.5 million such stones a year and who were the last manufacturer of the product in the world, ceasing business in 1979. The motif on Joe's stone is based on the Uffington White Horse, also shown on the novel's cover) And these two items prove key to the adventure that follows, one that involves, inter alia, the characters from the 1940s comic Knockout coming to life: Knockout was the best comic, better than The Beano or The Dandy, because it had daft ideas. And the best in it was Stonehenge Kit the Ancient Brit, who was always fighting Whizzy the Wicked Wizard and his chums the Brit Bashers. Whizzy wore a pointed hat. This time, Kit was falling out of a tree, and he dropped thump woof bam crash on Whizzy, who was having forty- one winks in a hammock, which is a lot of holes tied with string, and Kit bundled him up in the hammock to take him as a prisoner for King Kongo and swap him for two cigarette- cards. He met a Brit Basher disguised as a milk maid. [link to picture] Joe is, at times, as confused (and exasperated) as some readers seem to be with the novel, but wonderfully the seemingly nonsensical paragraph below actually makes complete sense when reading the book: ‘What’s amiss?’ said Joe. ‘I’ll tell you what’s amiss. I shall. I shall that. You come here, you and your box and your pots and your donkey stone, and fetch in enough to make me frit to death. You’re on about bones and all sorts; and then you’re off, some road or other, and I can’t tell where I am. I’ve got a pain in my eye. I can’t see proper. And I go down the bog and get stuck; and this chap with no clothes on and a daft silly hat, he sits up in the water and he makes no more sense than you do. He says I’ve got glammeritis, and then Stonehenge Kit, he’s gone, and so’s my best dobber; and Whizzy’s with a Brit Basher and they’re after Kit and the mirror’s all wrong then he’s back in the picture. And there’s this here.’ Joe pulled the crumpled paper from his pocket and lobbed it across the fire basket. ‘What’s happening? What the heck’s up?’ Now I must admit to my almost complete ignorance hitherto of Alan Garner's life and works. I am sure for those familiar with both there are many more layers to this novel, such as those highlighted on the Strange Horizons blog. Garner himself commented in the Guardian on the autobiographical nature of the work: Joseph Coppock is the me I could have become if I’d not had the severe academic training that I did. Treacle Walker is what I could have become if I hadn’t jumped ship at Oxford and got off the road to academia. And there are also many references on this unofficial Alan Garner website: http://alangarner.atspace.org/linkstw... But for novices such as myself, the novel (with some modest Googling) is sufficient unto itself, and a truly magical work. 4.5 stars rounded to 5 and one I would love to see win the overall prize.

Alan Garner is, without doubt, one of the UK's greatest fantasy writers. I was privileged to grow up with his books, which aged in audience as I did, peaking for me with The Owl Service. Garner also visited my (and his) school, which the book is dedicated to, when I was 12, a really important moment in my young life. But I lost some enthusiasm with his adult titles, which were both difficult to follow and depressing. However, now well into his 80s, Garner has produced what is arguably his best yet. Although Treacle Walker is a very compact book in large print, it is so intensely written that it still has considerable heft - I've seen it described by someone as poetry, and although I wouldn't personally say that, like the best poetry it does pack a huge amount into relatively few words. The book's protagonist is a young boy, but this is not a children's book. The closest parallel I have is Ray Bradbury's wonderful Something Wicked This Way Comes - the book captures much of the essence of childhood, but does so in a way that appeals to the nostalgic side of an adult who can see far more in it than a young reader. Like all Garner's work a sense of place and time is hugely important. As someone brought up in Lancashire, the use of language from Garner's Cheshire youth evokes many memories, though you don't have to have that background to appreciate it. Just the references to donkey stones and rag and bone men, for example, bring so much back. There is even a reference to the old Pace Egg plays performed by mummers in the North West, when a character of Garner's says 'I have been through Hickety, Pickety, France and High Spain' - compare this with the doctor's claim in the traditional Pace Egg play to have travelled 'Through Italy, Sickly, High Germany, France and Spain'. At one level, the book is a folk fantasy, and of course Garner does this brilliantly well. He has always combined local material with wider ranging concepts (for example the use of Ragnarok in his first novel), but never more so than here, where one of the elements, also featuring on the cover, is the white horse at Uffington, a powerful image, coincidentally situated near where I now live. But there is also more going on, particularly in the ending, suggesting a totally different take on what has occurred with a distinctly darker undercurrent. Overall, this is a masterpiece, a book I will re-read many times. If it is a swan song, then like the legendary original it is something of intense beauty. Remarkable.

5★ “ ‘It was a hurlothrumbo of winter,’ said the man. ‘A lomperhomock of night. Nothing more.’” This short work was shortlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize, and I bet there have been heated discussions ever since about it. After recently criticising awkward phrasing and language in another story, I found myself completely and mystifyingly absorbed in this one. I don’t pretend to know what it ‘means’, but I know the sense I had from reading it. A young boy, Joe, hears a raggedy old man with a horse and cart calling out. “ ‘Ragbone! Ragbone! Any rags! Pots for rags! Donkey stone!’ Joe looked up from his comic and lifted his eye patch. Noony rattled past the house and the smoke from her engine blew across the yard. It was midday. The sky shone. [Note: Joe is wearing an eyepatch to correct a lazy eye. Noony is the noontime train.] ‘Ragbone! Ragbone! Any rags! Pots for rags! Donkey stone!’ Quick, Joe. Now, Joe. Joe pulled the patch down, got off his mattress on the top of the chimney cupboard and stood at the big window. The last of Noony’s smoke curled through the valley and along the brook. He could see no one in Barn Croft or Pool Field or Big Meadow or on the track between the top and bottom gates; and trees hid the way up from there to the heath. He went back to bed. ‘Ragbone! Ragbone! Any rags! Pots for rags! Donkey stone!’ The voice was below the window. He climbed down again.” The author’s well-known for working with folklore and fantasy, and considering his first novel was published in 1960, he’s obviously had a long time to hone his craft. This is wondrously confusing, a little like being in a dream, sometimes a nightmare, sometimes inside the story in a comic book. Joe talks to the old man, Treacle Walker, and asks about his corr bolg (the ‘crane bag’ of folklore) that has odd treasures in it, a magnet for any boy’s interest. In Joe’s house, Joe asks him who he is. “‘Who? What?’ said the man. ‘Is there a difference?’ ‘Can you not talk sense? What’s your name?’” There’s banging at the door. “He lifted the latch. A wind threw the door onto him, shoving him against the stack. And night spilled in. Snow stung his face. He forced the door against the wind and the latch clanged shut. He clung to the chimney post. But night was in the room, a sheet of darkness, flapping from wall to wall. It changed shape, swirling, flowing. It dropped to the ground and ruckled over the floor bricks; then up to the joists and beams of the ceiling; hung, fell, humped. It shrieked, reared against the chimney opening, but did not enter. It surged through the house by cracks and gaps in the timbers, out under the eaves. There was a whispering, silence; and on the floor snow melted to tears. . . . ‘It was a hurlothrumbo of winter,’ said the man. ‘A lomperhomock of night. Nothing more.’” Another day, Joe follows the sound of a cuckoo to a small copse with a bog, and he gets confused and stuck with his wellies full of heavy mud. “He fell on the alder stool. ‘Help!’ A man sat up in the bog. ‘Why the stramash, Joseph Coppock,’ he said, ‘and you with the stone in your pocket?’ He wore a close hood made of leather, tied under his chin. The rest of him was bare. Hood and skin and eyes were all the same copper brown. Joe lay across the stool, held between the trunks. ‘May a body not rest in his bog?’ said the man.” Later in the conversation: “‘And I wish you the luck on it there,’ said the man. ‘So I do. But you’re the delight of the ages to me; for there’s little laughing in a bog. And less in dreaming.’ ‘Why’ve you got no clothes on?’ said Joe. ‘And wouldn’t they be drenched, if I had?’ said the man. ‘What’s the hat for, then?’ ‘Against the rain.’” And so it goes, with Joe moving between these two characters and then in and out of a comic book (reminding me of Michael Chabon’s The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay) and through a mirror like C.S. Lewis’s The Chronicles of Narnia. Joe’s language and names for things reminds me of Emma Donoghue’s Room. Max Porter's Lanny is another favourite. But this is its own unique and wonderful world, if you like this sort of thing. I don't think I could read anything longer in this style, and I would be careful about recommending it as a book club read, because you would have some extremely annoyed members!

Shortlisted 2022 Booker Prize [Bumped this to a 5 because after a rereading I love it so much]. Garner's Treacle Walker is a treat of a read. As a story-telling Bag and Bone man, Garner cast the glamourie on me and bestowed the gift of second sight. I've visited faery and experienced time and narrative twisted and distilled across the landscape of his beloved Cheshire landscape of Alderley Edge. I've encountered shape-shifting boggarts and bogles (ghostly like faerie creatures) that have taken on the form of comic book characters (Whizzy and The Brit Basher) and pursued me out of those books and through a hall of mirrors. I've been haunted by the call of the Cuckoo and met the bog man Thin Amren. I've been immersed in this magical, mythic domain and it's amazing. In this slight (in word count and page number) book Garner shares the tale of young Joseph Coppock, living in a small cottage in a rural English country setting (there are refernces here to hillocks, mounds and Middle-yard) clearly situating this in mythical / folkloric territory of middle-earth and the magic imbued landscape of Garner's home territory (Cheshire). Joseph enjoys his comic books, playing with marbles and the reassurance provided by the regularity of Nonny (a train) passing by: "Noony rattled past the house and the smoke from he enging blew across the yard. It was midday. The sky shone" . Joseph meets Treacle Walker (a bag and bone man) and invites him across the threshold and into his home. After magical gifts and objects the journey gets going as Joseph's sight is transformed and he sees the world anew and in some ways renewed. 'Treacle' in medieval language has connotations with medicine, so we have ideas of a healer. As the story unfolds I gained the impression that Treacle is teaching and initiating young Joseph to see differently, passing on the wisdom and knowledge. All the cryptic exchanges and expressions are somewhat like Zen Koans, prodding Joseph (and us) to see that magical, mythic glimmer that for Garner renews and sustains. Like all apprentices Joseph must be tested (as must we) and so he is, we are, and through that testing he/we gain insight and knowledge. Some readers (and reviewers) comment on the difficulty and opacity of elements of this tale, with all the folk-lore, myth references and allusions. For me, even without knowing that detail, it's fairly straightforward to follow the drift and context, and that disorientation perhaps mirrors Joseph's experience and is required for the journey ahead. Early in the meeting with Treacle Joseph is buffetted by a dark wind: "A wind threw the door onto him, shoving him against the stack. And night spilled in. Snow stung his face. He forced the door against the wind and the latch clanged shut. he clung to the chimney post. But night was in the room, a sheet of darkness, flapping from wall to wall. It changed shape, swirling, flowing .... There was a whispering silence; and on the floor snow melted to tears". Garner in interview has shared that Treacle is based on Walter Helliwel, a tramp who claimed to heal “all things but jealousy”. He was born at the beginning of the twentieth century, near Huddersfield. But I like to read him as Garner, this elderly mystic figure, whispering into my ear and taking my hand to glimpse this magic even for a brief moment. After my first read I did some quick research to gain insights on the various layers of folklore and myth grounding this work and its connection to Garner's early novels. There are plenty of blogs, Garner interviews and interpretations out there that even after 30 minutes or so I was able to go back in for a second read and enjoy new ways of seeing and understanding the magical shimmer. I started with the links and resources provided here: https://thebookerprizes.com/the-booke... https://britishfairies.wordpress.com/... It's worthwhile spending time with Treacle and Joe listening to the tunes played on the bone pipe: "It was a tune with wings, trampling things, tightened strings, boggarts and bogles and brags on their feet; the man in the oak, sickness and fever, that set in long, lasting sleep the whole great world with the sweetness of sound the bone did play" Toward's the book's conclusion there's a deeply moving exchange between Joe and Treacle in which Joe asks: 'What is it you want for you? What is it you want most? For you. Not some wazzock else' 'Never has a soul asked that of me.' What's the answer?' Treacle Walker leaned his head against the timber behind him and looked up into the stack. 'To hear no more the beat of Time. To have no morrow and no yesterday. To be free of years'. He closed his eyes. 'Oblivion. Home.' 'That's not daft.' 'It is everything'. For this wondrous gift of a book I truly hope Garner finds his Home that is everything.

A quick read, this took me back to my childhood when I first discovered Alan Garner in the school library. There’s playful and clever language, it reads like folklore or myth and I just loved it!

This is a short but meaningful story. There's a strong feeling of time spent alone in childhood, when the external world takes a back seat to imagination and (day)dreams. The main character, a boy called Joe, exists in solitude - there is no reference to parents, friends, school in this book's reality. Foremost in Joe's world are Treacle Walker, a rag and bone man with 'green violet' eyes, the physical landscape surrounding his house (with simple, familiar names like Big Meadow) and Knockout comics. Time passes without recourse to clocks or daily events, only marked by the midday train 'Noony'. The only real appearance of the 'outside world' is a trip to the optician to check the progress of correcting Joe's lazy eye, for which he has to wear a patch. Joe tells Treacle Walker that he has been ill, his illness and convalescence providing background to his solitude. There are references to 'sick headaches' which seem to be linked to exposure to the sun and to Joe's eyes. At the beginning of the book, Joe trades a pair of his pyjamas and a lamb's shoulder blade for a donkey stone (to shine his front step) and a small, unassuming medicine pot, chosen from an array of other, highly-decorated trinkets. The remains of the green violet medicine, when smeared on Joe's good eye, give him the 'glamourie' and access to a world where characters from his favourite Knockout comic, Stonehenge Kit the Ancient Brit, can make their way into his bedroom, and where an ancient bog man rises up from under the alders next to the house. Joe also summons a mysterious cuckoo by playing on Treacle Walker's bone flute. While this book contains so much to interpret, with so many possible interpretations, what stood out for me was Joe's perspective as a child in a world where so much happens that he cannot understand. The entrance of Treacle Walker and the 'glamourie' into his everyday life, normally defined by the familiarity of Big Meadow and Stonehenge Kit, leads Joe into endless, confusing bogland and a strange dream of silver hoofprints leading to a hillock in a meadow. At one point, in his frustration, he says to the rag and bone man: You come here... and fetch in enough to make me frit to death... and I can't tell where I am. I've got a pain in my eye. I can't see proper... and then Stonehenge Kit, he's gone, and so's my best dobber; and Whizzy's with a Brit Basher and they're after Kit and the mirror's all wrong then he's back in the picture. In this passage we can read all the exasperation of a child for whom small things matter a lot. Treacle Walker, despite being the catalyst for Joe's familiar world of small things being turned upside down, insists that it is Joe who has the ability and the tools to be able to put it right again. Reading this book is understanding again how it is to be a child, with heroes and villains who can burst right out of comic books and everyday objects which take on extraordinary significance, leading up to an ending which answers questions about Treacle Walker's true purpose.

What an absolute gem! Magic and myth, and beautiful prose. If you don’t understand everything on first read, just stop Googling and let the wonderful rhythm of Garner’s words flow over and through you!

While I was reading Treacle Walker, I felt like I was drifting back to my childhood years. Growing up in Canada, which is part of the Commonwealth, we were exposed to British TV like Noddy and Dr. Who and the old Mr. Men cartoons. I also felt elements of my early teen years in Malta when I played with marbles and was obsessed with The Beano. Treacle Walker does have a nostalgic feel to it but it's much much more than that. It's a short tale of many depths and can be interpreted in many ways. So here's my take. The first clue that I got was in the epigraph, which is the quote 'Time is ignorance by Carlo Rovelli, which could mean that Treacle Walker is a metaphysical novel or it could be one about age - or both. The book begins with a manboy with a lazy eye, Joe who meets rag and bone man, Treacle Walker. Through the gifts they exchange: Joe exchanges his pyjamas and lamb shoulder blade for a donkey stone with alchemical powers and an ointment which helps him 'see' through the tangible world his bad eye. Thus at this point Treacle Walker could be seen as a philosopher helping Joe 'know thyself' as Socrates preached, this also is the slogan one would find at the Oracle of Delphi. We now know that Joe will be able to look through to other worlds. This is further accentuated by the constant sound of cuckoos in the background, as these were able to travel inbetween dimensions, at least in Celtic mythology. In the meantime, while striking up his friendship, Joe reads his comic books and plays with marbles. Could this mean that Joe is revisiting his youth? and that in the story he is an old man who needs an escape? Time is ignorance and here he's seems to be absorbed by his youthful pleasures. In the process Joe also manages to read Latin and has conversations with a man who lives in his bog - which I think represents Joe's mortality, hence why I think he is an old man in the novel. The crux comes when Joe enters an actual alternative reality via a looking glass, there he sees a doppleganger, which could be an alter ego or simply an effect of living in the mirror-verse and he manages to understand his reason for living, which is what Treacle Walker has been trying to do throughout the book. At least that's how I saw it on this first reading. Treacle Walker is a puzzle of a book. Each chapter unlocks something, be it an element of folklore or something from the past (I do believe that when we're young time is at it's most naïve). It is told simply but could also frustrate the reader in the use of British slang or allusions to medieval British culture. Nothing is clear cut but that gravitated me towards the novel. Probably the most divisive book on the list but, for me, the most rewarding.

I generally like Alan Garner's books, and I liked this one 🙂 in some ways it feels abit like a distillation, compared to his other novels I've read. short and sparse in ways, but not in content and ideas. while physically the novel has nice short chapters, and has deceptively simple text/prose, it contains alot of layers, many beneath the surface... like what lies beneath the surface of the water in the bog.... 🌜🌟 listen for the rhythm and rhyme, the place and time, the wind and chime... 🌟🌛 myths, faerie tales, folklore of the land... (all of which are often a focus of Alan Garner's writing). the story had a nice circularity to it too, almost as perfect as the sphere of Joe's dobber... 🌀 🌳🌿💧🧿💧🌿🌳 it was almost too easy to read! even tho I read slowly, with time in the gaps between reading to let as much of what was contained within it unfurl in my mind. for me, it'll warrant at least a second reading, if not more. 🌳🌿💧🧿💧🌿🌳 accessed as paperback book. I took my time with it, but still felt I need and want to read it again as soon as I'd finished 🙂 I've also found it as an audiobook in a couple of the libraries I use, tho I'm not yet sure if I want to hear it in someone else's voice. I think I might want to read it on paper a couple/few more times first 🙂

This isn’t going to be for everyone, but it’s one hundred percent for me. Where to even start. Essentially, it’s about twisting the things we have codified in our lives and their meaning, granting them a different purpose, which is steeped in mythology and folklore. The journey is always a journey inward. And the power of the narrative we have crafted already in its changing, to change us, fundamentally. It’s what these kinds of stories do best. But it’s also just delightful to read. The words pop, it is wildly engaging because you’re trying to figure out what’s going on, what does what, just as the protagonist is doing the same. I’m always for questioning the nature of reality type stories. This is classic fantasy at its best, when the market is flooded with commercial crap like Sanderson, devoid of true wonder and magic or provocation. What a breath of fresh air this is.

150 pages of unputdownableness. I wish I could give it 10 points. How does Garner do it? Come to that, what exactly is he doing? Whatever it is I find it shattering.

‘Ragbone! Ragbone! Any rags! Pots for rags! Donkey stone!’ Deceptively simple yet cunningly wrought, Alan Garner’s Treacle Walker defies categorisation. Instead of easily slipping into one genre or another it does what many good stories do – it intrigues, enthralls, makes one think, conjures up images, presents distinct characters, and takes us through from start to finish before the stern critic can adjust their spectacles and sharpen their quill. And, too, Garner does so much with so little. He gives us a limited cast of characters – Joseph Coppock, Treacle Walker, Thin Amren – and conjures up established figures from a classic British kids comic which ran from 1939 to 1963. He sets his story in a mythical landscape which evokes aspects of the Cheshire he knows so well and which feature in much of his writing. And he presents a hazy, elastic timeline which mixes the ancient past, his mid-century childhood, and the timeless feel of a fable or fairytale. But above all this is the work of a visionary poet, of a shaman who is describing a journey to a spirit world. Nominations for literary and fantasy awards may come his way but we do Garner an injustice if we attempt to pigeonhole what he creates. Joseph is a young lad who appears to live alone, or at least he never interacts with anybody else in his house. He’s been made to wear an eye patch over one eye in an attempt to cure a squint and, when he’s not asleep in bed on top of an inbuilt cupboard by the side of his chimney, spends much of his time reading and collecting copies of Knockout. His favourite strip is about Stonehenge Kit and Whizzy the Wicked Wizard, his adversary. But who is this outside his door? It’s the rag-and-bone man, Treacle Walker, with his horse and cart, bearing strange objects to swap with recyclable material. Who is Thin Amren, the man who rises from the adjacent marshland with his strange cap? How does Joseph’s visit to the optician cause confusion? And why are the characters in an issue of Knockout simply missing from the Stonehenge Kit page? How to approach a story composed largely of everyday dialogue and seemingly obsessed with popular culture? Garner himself tells us where he is coming from: “I have a mind of my own, and the words to express it. If that is a new voice, it is the voice of Aeschylus reading Desperate Dan.” He can’t be clearer – his mind is that of a tragedian combined with a love of outrageous wordplay, surreal comedy and everything in between, seeing correspondences in opposites and the past as one with the future. What of the audience for Treacle Walker? For me – and I can only speak personally – I engage with the narrative as any spellbound audience member might, with its ups and downs, its twists and turns; I fear for Joe, I wonder about the role of Walker, I puzzle at Thin Amren’s nature; but I also marvel at the store of tradition that Garner draws on. Let me count some of the ways. Hospitality and the crossing of the threshold; the ritual exchange of gifts; the healing Treacle Well of St Margaret, Oxford; the Uffington white horse (no donkey, this one); shamanic journeys through smoke holes; Alice Through the Looking Glass; the ritual murder of the man in the peat bog of Lindow (‘Black Lake’) Moss and the cap of the Trollund bog body; Hir Amren (‘tall Amren’) in the Welsh medieval tale of Culhwch ac Olwen, who’s said to be the son of Bedwyr or Bedivere who threw Arthur’s sword into the lake; the fabled second sight of the seer; and so much more. Then, after he has done his protracted research for a new work like this, Garner tells us ‘the closing sentences frequently appear, and I’ve learnt to write them down without question. Then it’s largely a matter of ‘watching’ the story unroll as a film and getting it onto paper. It’s a mysterious, but not a mystical, sensation.’ I can’t tell you how much this seemingly slight tale has appealed to me, and even moved me. For while Garner’s writing – what I’ve read of it – is nearly always intensely personal, the fact that he shares his own journeys with us, so that we may recognise that which may resonate and help us, shows a generosity of spirit. If you’ve yet to read Treacle Walker I hope when you get to it that you may also find a little of what you’re looking for.

I see that low GR rating, and I get it, I totally get it. Treacle Walker doesn’t have a plot that I can describe in linear form. I don’t exactly know who or what Treacle Walker is, or what’s up with the man in the bog, or why Joseph is all alone in his house and sleeping on top of a cupboard, or what becomes of him after the book’s last page. I think it’s possible that all the events of the book take place within a dream he has as he’s dying. But maybe not. Maybe Joe simply lives in a world that exists at an angle to ours. Maybe it’s better to read Treacle Walker as a poem, that is allusively. Anyway it left me haunted and unsettled and very glad to have discovered Alan Garner.

The best book I’ve ever read. Sublime and bizarre. *This is now the fourth or fifth time I’ve read Treacle Walker and my appreciation of it hasn’t diminished. It’s an amazing piece of writing. The imagery is wonderfully weird and the language is so clever, it feels like a lifetime of hoarded words found in an attic. I keep coming across reviews about the ‘nonsense words’ it is written in but I really would like to point out these are dialect words from all over the UK: Cheshire, Scots, Welsh, Northern Irish, Yorkshire and Romany for example. Treacle Walker was based on a real person who lived in Holywell Green, and treacle meant an anti-venom or herbal remedy. The word only came to its modern meaning because the herbal concoction was made up in a sweet sticky salve. 2025: Still the best novel I’ve read. Thin Amren in particular grows in my imagination.

Joe Coppock answers the call of the mysterious rag and bone man and finds himself in a magical wonderland. Gifted with the sight, he is lost when he is barred from his home and must work hard to return. Garner captures a true sense of magic and wonderment in this children's story, which is deep and thought provoking but overall it is strange and marvellous.

I loved Treacle Walker. It is brief, strange, atmospheric and compelling – and extremely hard to describe. We meet Joe Coppock, a youngish lad alone in an apparently isolated house. From the dialect (and what we know of Alan Garner), it appears to be in the Cheshire area. A rag-and-bone man appears – the eponymous Treacle Walker, who knows Joe’s name...and then a mixture of everyday and strange, mystical things happen as Joe’s “lazy eye” develops a curious kind of vision. An ancient sleeper in a bog awakens, and Joe begins to learn… It really is rather odd, but there’s a compelling, ultimately rather satisfying narrative even though much is left unsaid. The things Garner has always done so well are well in evidence here: the evocation of the power of ancient myth, the sense of deep, ancient mystery and powers in the landscape and also the brilliant language in his use of local dialect, in old rhymes and sayings and in touches of invented language, too. To me, these things carried echoes of The Owl Service, Red Shift and The Stone Book quartet, which I first read many years ago and have stayed with me ever since. I think Treacle Walker will do the same. I read it almost in one sitting, somehow quite spellbound. I think it’s exceptionally good and is very warmly recommended. (And I hope it wins the Booker, too!)

Loved this new book from Alan Garner. Elidor was my favourite book back when I was in junior school about 50 years ago, so the idea of a new book from Garner is a massive treat. I listened to the audio book, read by Robert Powell ( although I think the best reader of Garner’s work is Mr Millward - see YouTube) but Robert Powell does an admirable job too. As usual Garner weaves a strange tale that seems to be a succession of riddles. The story is of Joe, a little lad with a bad eye who wears an eye patch. He likes playing marbles and reading Knockout, until the rag and bone man calls, and this honestly took me right back to my childhood. It was like the last 50 years haven’t happened. This is fitting because the book is about time and reality - I *think* - although I can never be sure I’ve understood his writing, it always makes me think. And the beauty of his writing can’t be gainsaid! What I also loved was hearing words from my childhood that my mum used to say, dialect words and expressions that I haven’t heard for years and had forgotten about. A beautiful jewel of a book.

Characters: Joe, a young boy; Thin Amren, an undead ancient bog-body (possibly), and Treacle Walker, a wandering mystic and / or rag and bone man, with a cart full of treasures (or is it?) who traverses worlds and speaks only in riddles and puns. Setting: a small cottage in rural Cheshire and environs / deep time / the multiverse. Plot: Joe, affected by some illness and an ocular problem, reads comics, plays marbles, meets characters not of this time or space. Conclusion: inconclusive. Length: brief but epic. The story is a puzzle, which I know re-reading will make more rather than less puzzling. As the reader, you’re either Joe with his eye-patch on his good eye, only seeing the mundane. Or he/you lifting it up for glamourie and other dimensions - up to you. The prose is a chewy Garnerian delight - elliptical, clipped, plain, lyrical, stony, bony, child-like, ancient - and full of word-play: doggerel, slang, comic argot and whatnot. The physical word of the book is also properly Garnerian: rocks, streams, bogs, woods, bird eggs, old found things, totems. The beyond-physical world is beyond description - can't help you there, you’ll have to read it for yourself.

There can be few writers as deeply rooted in place or as intimately acquainted with the imprisoning and liberating potentialities of time as Alan Garner. Having spent almost all his 87 years living in an ancient house in the same corner of Cheshire inhabited by his family for centuries, and where there is a history of human habitation stretching back for thousands of years, he is also within a stone’s throw of the Jodrell Bank Observatory, where astrophysicists explore deep time and space. Treacle Walker, a surprise late novel from Garner, like much of his work, mines local folklore, language and landscape, but also introduces into the mix the stripped down storytelling and bold characters of the children’s comics that were his companions during his often bed bound sickly childhood. Like all Garner’s work, Treacle Walker is an exemplar of stripped back, mythic storytelling, firmly rooted in the author’s corner of England but with a profound and universal power.

"I often dreamed of the Eastside when I was away, not every night, no, 'cause sometimes I dreamed of women or taking the tram all round Leipzig with a one-day pass and a crate of beer and sometimes I dreamed of Little Walter and the night I saved his life twice over, Walter who just left us anyway all those nights later, and sometimes I didn't dream at all, but there were nights when I knew before I fell asleep that I'd dream of the Eastside, and then I'd lie awake for a long time, looking forward to it." (page 289 of the English language version from Fitzcarraldo). This is one of my great reading experiences of 2025 - this novel will stay with me, no haunt me, for a long time, maybe forever. As I read the final sentence: "It was getting dark outside; Fred lit a few candles and we moved in closer and ate and drank and we were happy." Reading that sentence at the end of this novel I was as emotionally eviscerated as I was when I came to the end of 'All Quiet on the Western Front' because Clemens Meyer in 'While We Were Dreaming' has written as powerful, and I would hope, as lasting a tale of how the young are betrayed and destroyed by forces they don't even know exists. For all of those, like me, who weren't 13 in 1989 when the Berlin Wall came down it is a demand that we face up to our failures - and remember that sins of omission are as deadly as those of commission. This is a novel about lost youth, lost chances, lost worlds and betrayal - but by whom? All we see are its victims and no matter that they become thieves, gang members, criminals, drunkards, drug users, the whole gamut of character flaws that easily reduce individuals to cliches such 'toxic masculinity' but which explains nobody because no one begins life full of toxins, they are absorbed from the world around them. This is a novel about how the world changed, but didn't change for many, certainly not for the better. The boys in this novel, like their real life counterparts, discover that the brave world ushered in post 1989 meant not just freedom, but the freedom to blame. 'While We Were Dreaming' is too wonderful a novel to analyse or discuss - I can only praise it and beg you to read it. If you want some insight into this novels wonderful richness then read what the following have to say: https://thebookerprizes.com/the-booke... https://tonysreadinglist.wordpress.co... https://southwestreview.com/a-kind-of... https://www.themodernnovel.org/europe... you don't have to choose these because there is a wealth of other brilliant reviews and comments out there. Take advantage of them.

Wow this book took me on a journey. Experiencing Leipzig after the fall of the Berlin Wall through the eyes of a group of teenage boys. They go through life in a messy haze of fighting, drinking, sex and drugs. And a deep strong bond with each other. But mostly it’s like a series of violent fights! I loved how this long novel was structured like a collage, jumping about in time. So you learn tragedies and then immediately step back in time which somehow makes it all the more emotional.

the best book i’ve read this year, a favourite, i like it’s format and masculinity. insights into small moments in growing up that piece together a life and a friendship group lots of fighting ✅ i saw a review said that ‘artfully interwoven’ and it certainly is, you got to know these characters spanning their youth, knowing where they’ll end up before they even do

“Maybe we should have drawn wings on him.” One of the most truly haunting and beautiful pieces of literature I have read in years, maybe my life. A chronicle of the lives of a group of friends growing up in Leipzig, Germany before and during reunification. Through the eyes of a group of young friends, centered mainly around the relationship between our protagonist “Danny,” and his best friend (and probably worst influence), “Rico” Meyer paints a vivid, chaotic, and deeply moving portrait of adolescence, friendship, and survival in a cold, harsh world. Inhabiting a violent, bleak, yet sometimes hopeful and beautiful world, our characters scream out into existence, hoping to overcome their circumstances, but, many are simply never seen or heard from again (and this is a positive here). I think that Clemens Meyer is a force to be reckoned with and this is a true triumph for contemporary German literature.

“A book like a fist” Is a pretty apt description, but it overlooks and downplays the tenderness that underlies the characters at times. It’s an absolute masterpiece of a novel that captures the dreams, aspirations, and fears of the group of boys growing up in the East side of Germany in the 1980’s on. Incredible novel!

desperately wanted to begin this again the second i finished. my heart still feels misshapen when i think about it. read a library copy but will be getting my own, as this is one i’m going to return to regularly. very impressive work of writing and of translation. 600 page book with a massive ensemble cast, but it didn’t drag and each character remained distinct and affecting. masterfully nonchronological so perhaps familiarity with german social + political history is helpful for discerning time periods + narrative arcs. translation is a work of art; all naturalisation, which works through derbyshire’s consistency - but i now really want to read the german for comparison.

Having Family on the East Side of the Berlin Wall; FTR, I was very young, and it was my Canadian naturalized Mother ( German women marrying my Canadian Father), where my Ma's family lived to the East of East Berlin ( Stasi fucks) side. But the shit we were put through, refusing us entry one time back into Western Berlin then to the Canadian Military Base( Lahr) and to make our flight. Like did we look CIA or something ???? I was like 9.(Why we were such good spies...jk jk) On leaving "the West", into the East of Communist Of the Shite Land; to get to my Grans was a torturous 7 hour drive through a waste land of once bustling towns that were still showing scars of the Russians counterattacks, laying waste to the Nazis, Hitler feared Stalin over Churchill. Why the insane piece of filth shit/shot himself ( that bullet is a hero, wonder if the Reds found said bullet, in Adolfs mostly cremated corpse, the irony) when the Russkies were a knocking on his bunker door. Anyways my trip East, It was a Waste Land, where no families would fuck with; ...lt was so grey and barren, nary a person to be seen, was like a dream. Communism Sucks balls Man! Anyways, even though we were all Canadian Citizens, they were still jamming us up my Mom just drilled into this Stasi (Watching two vociferous folk arguing in German is fun times man). As my Ma was versed in the Law. Why she was so angry ( one of the angriest I've ever seen her, as it's extremely unlike her) People were called, Canadian Embassy, German Lawyer. And to this day I'm not sure why they wouldn't let us cross back to the West. ( We eventually did) I have a memory I'm still not sure if I was dreaming or what, I was at my Oma's, and being woke, at like 2-3a.m, to a military vehicle, driving slowly through town, some sort of Martial Law was on, telling us through a AirHorn, Blow Horn, you get the picture, and many years later I asked my Mother the time we went to visit Oma, and got held up? She said a date, and I went on my on way. Few decades later, watching Chernobyl, and saw the date, and like Amy Adams in Arrival, the past, present and future were revealed. It was the night of or a day or two later, and they were telling us to STAY INDOORS. MY mother, healthy as could be, never smoked, the rare times when she'd have a German beer she thought she was being naughty or something. It was adorable. But she got diagnosed with Cervical Cancer at the age of 37, a few months after our trip in to East of East Berlin. Well she went into remission, but as you know Cancer, it always comes back, and she passed in 2019. I believe she somehow got a dose of radiation from Chernobyl is my point. All of us did, and worry, as it was my Ma, younger brother and me. Since my Gran was deep into the East, I think we all got dosed good, my Mom the worse, as Radiation does fuck with women's reproductive organs. And maybe why they didn't want to let us leave, some sort of censorship, ( The Story got out anyway) my Mom told them she had no idea what they're were talking about, this was the Iron Curtain, noone knew what happened in Ukraine that April 26, 1986 for several days or even weeks... Woah Woah Woah did I go off there. Apologies, Shitty Reviewer fans. I made this about my shitty life instead of doing a shitty review of this German novel. It's about young men and women seemingly to be born at the right time, Oh to be Young, In wars created by old men....so being a man of age 16-25, The Wall falling was and will be the most poignant, almost supernatural experience to happen to these men. And the bravery of the Proxy States to drop their arms and letting people leave with no interference. Soldiers and guards, from Krakow to Sofia to Budapest, Berlin, Prague etc.... ( Addendum) The way USSR fell apart was fun to watch. And of course my Oma, who passed in 97, got to only experience about 7-8 years of German Unification. Fuck Communism. Anyways, all I got for today. This book was good, to be young and free, a sense of real freedom, what would you do if you lived under tyranny all your life and suddenly it's over, with no shots ( officially) fired. Well you'd do what these friends would, drink, make love and smile. A wonderful book, especially in its original Deutsche. - SDB esq.

A must read for Autumn/Winter 2025!😊 “Sunny broke the silence between himself and Babita by accusing Babita of bringing him up in such a Westernised manner that he’d always be a foreigner in his own country,” The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny is a powerful novel.. This is the story of two individuals and their search for identity and belonging. Booker prize 2025 nominated and understandably so; this is a book rich in wonderful prose and narrative delights: a family saga ; a tale of the deep binds between parents and children; an essay on identity and race ; an exploration of cultural differences ; a journey across continents to ultimately find love and meaning. Sonia and Sunny come from India and have competed their education in the USA : Sonia finds herself working in a gallery where she encounters and enigmatic and highly coercive artist who leads her into a crisis of identity and entrapment. She returns to India her she is torn between supporting each parent whilst trying to determine who she is. Sonny works as a journalist but cannot achieve the success he dreams of- he continually questions and explores the role aspirations and exploitations of the migrant population in New York. The desire to escape and follow his own path - not becoming another person of colour fighting for identity. But still the pull of family cannot release him to feel free - his mother who continually tries to control and put emotional expectations upon him is always in the background. Both Sonia and Sunny are lost and lonely …their paths cross but it isn’t the envisaged resolution for them both to find peace- one family has recommended a marriage between them. Yet the fragile connections between families mean they enter each others lives, The stories of both characters ( set between the mid 1990s and early 2000s ) reflects the story of millions who cross the planet “ to improve “ their lot: the aspirations and pseudo snobbery of parents for their young to escape and “ become something “ in the USA so they can boast to family and friends. It is the family / parental stories that are equally as important in this book. At times they drive you to despair and you feel the pressure upon the two protagonists but the book raises questions to the reader as to how we “ judge others “ without cultural awareness and historical understanding of a period and ancestral demand. . Kiran Desai has written another incredible novel - a gap of 19 years since the Booker winning The Inheritance of Loss. This novel certainly deserves the plaudits it will receive and is a book that you need to discuss with friends / fellow readers. A six hundred and fifty page read that doesn’t slow down for a moment and continually challenges us to question how we reflect upon our own lives and connections ( since the smart phone and Covid - loneliness is now a global epidemic ) and value and respect choices and reasons made by all people who make a move for one country to another or one continent to another and search for how to belong and not lose their true identity. Much will be written about this book and a wait of 19 years certainly was worth it . This review only slightly touches the messages in this epic tome. Superb !!! Powerful and worthy of attention ! The lives of Sonia and Sunny will stay with you long after competing this book Quotes: “He looked at himself in the mirror. He was a brown man who might have been of several nationalities, or in-between nationalities, or no nationality. An anonymous brown man of no importance.” “ For just a few days I wanted to forget I’m a Third Worlder who must worry about other Third-Worlders.” “Like myself, many seekers come to India and don’t know what they are searching for. They became a mirror to the country they have arrived in, and in the eyes of the people they meet, they find a mirror to themselves.” Thank you to Penguin books and NetGalley for the advance copy

As I was reading this one, my constant thought was that of my father whom I lost at a young age. I do not know why or how or for what purpose - he was all pervasive during this read and its been 25 years since he passed. I think when books do that to you - move something within you, you know it is more than just a good read. The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny is a book set in the 90s, early 2000s even (time is very fluid in this one), and yet it fits right in today's time. It is about loneliness of course, but in that it is also about the comfort we seek, the ennui that settles deep within us, and what we do with it – it wasn’t about Sonia and Sunny and their families alone. At some point the novel became about me as a person and how I feel. Kiran Desai’s writing unsettles you and strangely enough also is comforting. Her sentences make you want to get under the shower, to clean your room, to take a walk – in all the mundanity and the daily business of living – there is solace in her characters – they are the same as you after all. Sonia and Sunny and their families strangely became mine for the week this one stayed with me, and continue to do so. The protagonists live out their lives quietly – sometimes also frantically – with the others on the sidelines – Sonia’s single aunt who must decide what to do with her life, to Sunny’s mother who struggles with what the society thinks of her, to the food that gets to play a huge part in this one – and not to forget all the travel – with alienation being one of the themes. I am all over the place with this one – because there are so many thoughts in my head. The book is a delight – it takes from you like any other literary fiction read, and gives you so much more. The search for happiness is heartbreaking – each character in their own way aimless and looking on hopelessly for the horizon in sight. Both are lonely in America – each lonelier in his or her way – they are set up to meet, which doesn’t take place – only for Sunny to find his way back to Sonia, and what happens in their lives constitutes the novel. Desai’s language is lucid, on point, heartbreaking (yes this word is perhaps overused but makes so much sense for this book), and encompasses India – captured beautifully as it was 30 years ago – an India perhaps that was in itself searching for some kind of fulfilment. Kiran Desai’s book is about life on the periphery – about privilege and the lack of it, of intimacy and it not being there, of masculinity and what it does and what it doesn’t allow you to be – fragile, vulnerable, and expressive. Sunny and Sonia’s lives are most ordinary and yet they aren’t. From one city to another – from one urban space to another, Desai gets to the core of the current times as well – because nothing really has changed – everything is pretty much the same, except for the advent of technology. The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny is a marvel, a book that is about our lives – fragmented, lost, aimless, and also mostly gullible, always looking for more, finding less, and ultimately just hoping to rest awhile.

Thanks to hogarth books for the gifted arc This is one of those novels that somehow both feels like an epic, with its multiple timelines and long list of characters, and manages to be this cozy little intimate thing. I never felt lost and I cared about all the characters no matter how small a role they played. It also does this funny time thing where you’re grounded at the start but as the action expands continents, time feels contracted until something specific happens and you're finally rooted down. What I’m trying to say is that Desai worked some sort of magic in these 700 pages - how did I finish this so fast? How did this not drag at any moment? Spoiler alert: it’s the brilliant writing that swept me away. Some things that went through my mind while reading: -ooo we’re getting tons of backstory and seeing how everyone is connected, even tangentially Bee Sting vibes -wait, this is about how immigrant identities and their thoughts on home and family change in their new country Very The Anthropologists -oh! This is about the act of writing and making art. (Giving Collected Works at times) Who’s allowed to write what? How do you represent your culture to the Western eye? I love how the plot starts off a little bit absurd (is this all really for a kebab recipe?!), that everything that is listed as “do not write” is what Desai ultimately writes, how it starts off as a campus novel in Vermont then eventually turns into magical realism via NYC, India, and Mexico. This book is also about how we carry and are intertwined with history - our family’s and our country’s. How we carry grief for those who’ve passed, for who we will never be, for lost relationships, for our changing homes. It’s also about how we constantly misunderstand each other, and often ourselves, which can create fear and suspicion that holds us down and can keep us apart. It pokes fun at every generation and at East and West equally. It’s a book that makes you wait nearly 300 pages for the titled characters to meet! It's about displacement and solitude. So yes, it’s an epic, a comedy, a love story, and a romance. It’s simply stunning.

"The spellbinding story of two young people whose fates will intersect and diverge across continents and years—an epic of love and family, India and America, tradition and modernity. Behind every love story are the myriad stories of two families." Sonia is lonely at college in Vermont and Sunny is lonely in Brooklyn even though they are in relationships. When they go back to Delhi, they are introduced by extended family. Although they are together for part of the book, most of the novel explores and compares their journies separately. The novel is a comprehensive look at happiness, loneliness, relationships, the generational gap, the Indian immigrant experience, the conflict between wanting to leave India, yet wanting to still be part of it and the human condition that is universal to mankind. Kiran Desai's writing is absolute magic! Her stunning prose and ability to immerse you so intimately with these characters is extraordinary. I was mesmerized by this book. I highly recommend it to those who love literary fiction as this is an extremely character driven and lengthy novel. The audiobook performance by Sneha Mathan is perfection as the story and characters come to life and demand your full attention. This is one of my favorite books of the year.

90th book read in 2025 I loved this novel with all my heart, mind and soul. It has been a long wait to get another novel from Kiran Desai. Twenty years in fact. It is a long novel with a complex story spanning India and America and places in between. For me as a reader, there is nothing better than being fully immersed in a long book! Kiran Desai covers quite a lot of territory both spatial and emotional. It is romantic, political, and familial. There is an art monster! Even a bit of horror. An arranged marriage that could have been a disaster but in the end saved two Indian young people from disaster. Finally, it is also completely contemporary while relying for its heft on much history. I hope she wins the Booker Prize.

Booker Book 13/13, 9 out of 10. And with a month long listen to Desai's epic novel, my 2025 Booker List project comes to a very satisfying end. This is such a rich book. There are very many layers, and doublings, and even triplings, as refrains of love, loneliness, alienation, guilt, artistic menace, talismanic protection, and a lot of delicious food, circle back again and again through Desai's pages. Desai slyly warns the reader of the pitfalls of stories of arranged marriages, of magical realism, of evil older men preying on susceptible young girls, and then proceeds to give us a novel that is all of these things. From Delhi to Goa to New York to Mexico to Venice, the book sweeps us along, and while some of the writing was a bit pretentious, and not all of the magical realism worked for me, it was a world I was happy to live in(for a full month!). With this novel 20 years or more in the making, Desai began the novel when she was closer in age to Sonia, our young woman protagonist, and finished it (or at least published it) when she was the same age as Babita, Sonny's menopausal 53 year old mother who may just have stolen the show, with a character arc and distinct voice that are perhaps more compelling than Sonia's, who spends much of the novel in thrall to the truly despicable Ilan, which is in some ways (as Desai tells us) a rather trite tale. (Rumor has it that that Ilan is inspired by Desai's own allegedly emotional abusive relationship with Orhan Pamuk, and knowing this may stop me from reading him again). This book got extra points and stole my heart out of the gate because Desai named one of her minor characters from Sonia's college years, the gay Filipino kid Armando, after one of my dearest friends. (Desai's best friend from college's best friend from high school is the life partner of my best friend from college.... talk about six degrees of separation - I've never met her though.).

The 20 year wait was worth it. I want to thank Kiran for giving us such a beautiful, well-written and deeply moving story. Note - the About the Author page in the kindle version misspells her name!&?@?!🤷‍♀️

Finally got through this one! Sweeping, beautiful, hopeful, sprinkled in some magic realism for fans of the genre. So well-written and so worthy of praise! Shortlisted for 2025 Booker Prizes.

In the Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny we are shown almost every iteration of this word. What lands as a gut-punch, and what I didn't realize until I was writing this review, is that every character in this book is lonely in their own unique and individual ways. Wow! I, uh, feel kinda dumb not seeing this until now. It's not just our two MCs that experience loneliness in their respective worlds; it's all of the supporting characters as well. *Literal forehead smack* This book covers such a multitude of surfaces that, as a result, one is left with an unfathomability as to how—or where—to begin. Complexities of character, of desire, and of intent are on display, strutting about throughout the story as if a peacock were flaunting its feathery prowess. Each character revels in its own depth, its own will to be prominent on the pages—and each is given its voice in turn: Sonia, alone in America at a college in Vermont, ponders what route her life will take after school. She succumbs to her loneliness whilst at school, desperate for human connection, when she meets... Ilan, the older man, the artist. The one who believes in superstitions, in rituals, and in his isolation and paranoia. He too is lonely within his controlling and domineering world. Ilan thinks he has Sonia wrapped around his finger until we hear from... Papa, Sonia's father, feels distant from his sister, Mina Foi, and his parents, Baba and Dadaji, as well as his own wife, Mama—but he wants the best for Sonia and can't bear to see her lonely in America. A marriage proposal is arranged via Sonia's grandfather, Dadaji, and Sunny's grandfather, The Colonel, and is presented in a letter to... Sunny, who is initiating a career as a reporter at the Associated Press in NYC. He already has an American girlfriend; they have their disagreements, but he wants nothing to do with an arranged marriage, leading to the consternation of... Babita, Sunny's stubborn and opinionated widowed mother. She wants Sunny to come home and care for his mother. Doesn't he realize she is all alone? As we see the lives of our MCs expand and contract, alongside an impressive cast of supporting characters, we are asked—how do we navigate this world alone while surrounded by so many? Only the tip of an iceberg has been scratched with my introduction. This book's depth is bottomless. It will stay within you long afterwards, tugging at your heartstrings, fiddling around with your brain cells, and pressing forward with its demand for attention and remembrance. The layers to expose are infinite. If you remove one, you will definitely want to reveal the next, and the next, and the next. While this book is long, I won't deny that it is slow at times and it is uneventful at times, but it is never, never without its purpose of meaning and heart. Revealing the truth of displacement across continents and lives, race and class, it summons us to ask—who and where can we truly call home? Is it where we were raised? Or where we find peace in another's company? Can we ever remove loneliness from ourselves even in the presence of those we love? This is a love story of the highest regard, one that is desperate and compelling for the society we find ourselves thrust into, against our wills, with eyes closed, fists clenched, but with hope in our hearts. -9/27/25 9/24/25: omg I finished it. lol. It takes me so long to get through big books. it was a book that I started and found at first I couldn't wait for it to be over, but then it's magic entwined me in its fingers and by the end I didn't want it to be over. I highlighted so many passages. the author is a superbly talented writer. what a gift, to make such magic with words. I'll have more thoughts on this beautiful book soon.

Nearly two decades after her Booker Prize triumph with The Inheritance of Loss, Kiran Desai returns with The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny, a sprawling 650-page masterpiece that reaffirms her position among contemporary literature's most compelling voices. Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize, this ambitious novel represents a profound meditation on displacement, belonging, and the intricate bonds that connect us across continents and generations. The novel follows two young Indians navigating the liminal spaces between tradition and modernity, East and West. Sonia, an aspiring writer fresh from Vermont's snowy mountains, returns to India haunted by a destructive relationship with an older artist. Sunny, a struggling journalist in New York, wrestles with his imperious mother's expectations while concealing his American girlfriend from his family. When their grandparents attempt an arranged introduction, the meddling backfires spectacularly, yet fate continues to weave their lives together in unexpected ways. The Architecture of Loneliness Character Development and Psychological Depth Desai's greatest achievement lies in her nuanced portrayal of loneliness as both a universal condition and a particularly acute experience of the diaspora. Sonia's character arc is particularly compelling as she transforms from a naive college student into a woman grappling with artistic ambition and psychological trauma. Her relationship with Ilan, the manipulative painter, serves as more than mere backstory; it becomes a meditation on power dynamics in artistic mentorship and the lasting wounds of emotional abuse. Sunny's journey proves equally fascinating. His evolution from a cynical journalist to someone capable of genuine connection reflects Desai's understanding of how immigration shapes identity. The novel's most poignant moments occur when Sunny confronts the gap between his American aspirations and his Indian roots, particularly in scenes with his friend Satya and his complex relationship with his mother Babita. The supporting characters emerge as fully realized individuals rather than mere plot devices. Ba and Dadaji, the chess-playing grandfathers who initiate the matchmaking attempt, embody the old-world values their grandchildren struggle to navigate. Babita, Sunny's mother, represents the generational divide with her own unfulfilled dreams and fierce protectiveness. Narrative Structure and Temporal Complexity Desai employs a non-linear narrative structure that mirrors the fragmented nature of modern existence. The novel moves fluidly between time periods, locations, and perspectives, creating a kaleidoscopic view of late twentieth-century life. This technique, while occasionally challenging, reinforces the theme of disconnection that pervades the characters' lives. The author's decision to structure the novel in multiple parts allows for deep dives into family histories and cultural contexts. The sections dealing with Sonia's grandfather Siegfried's European past and the family's navigation of Partition's aftermath provide crucial historical grounding for the contemporary narrative. Literary Craftsmanship and Style Prose and Voice Desai's writing moves with consummate fluency between an array of modes: philosophical, comic, earnest, emotional, and uncanny. Her prose style has evolved from the lyrical density of The Inheritance of Loss to something more expansive yet equally precise. The novel's opening pages establish this tonal range immediately, moving from intimate family moments to sweeping cultural observations with remarkable ease. The author's ability to capture both the mundane and the profound within single scenes demonstrates her maturity as a writer. A simple train journey becomes a meditation on fate and desire; a cooking lesson transforms into an exploration of cultural preservation and loss. Cultural Authenticity and Observation Desai's portrayal of the Indian-American experience avoids both romanticization and stereotype. Her characters struggle with real issues: visa complications, family expectations, professional disappointments, and the constant negotiation between competing cultural values. The novel's treatment of arranged marriage, for instance, presents it neither as archaic tradition nor progressive choice, but as a complex social institution navigated by real people with real concerns. The depictions of American life ring equally true. From Sonia's experiences at a Vermont college to Sunny's Brooklyn existence, Desai captures the particular isolation that can accompany immigrant success. Her observations about American individualism and its costs feel both incisive and empathetic. Thematic Richness and Contemporary Relevance The Anatomy of Modern Loneliness The novel's central thesis—that loneliness has become the defining condition of modern life—resonates powerfully in our current moment. Desai argues that this isolation affects not only immigrants but anyone caught between traditional and contemporary value systems. The characters' loneliness isn't merely circumstantial; it's existential, arising from the fundamental displacement of modern existence. Family, Tradition, and Change The generational conflicts within both families provide rich material for exploring how traditions adapt or disappear. The chess games between the grandfathers, the elaborate cooking sequences, and the family's response to Papa's illness all serve as meditations on continuity and change. Desai's treatment of these themes avoids simple nostalgia, acknowledging both the constraints and comforts of traditional structures. Art, Ambition, and Authenticity Through Sonia's struggles as a writer and Sunny's journalism career, the novel examines questions of artistic authenticity and cultural representation. Sonia's relationship with Ilan raises important questions about mentorship, exploitation, and the particular challenges faced by artists from marginalized communities. Her journey toward finding her own voice parallels her broader quest for personal autonomy. Critical Analysis and Assessment Strengths The novel's primary strength lies in its ambitious scope successfully realized. Desai manages to create a genuinely epic narrative that never feels overextended. The character development is consistently strong throughout the extended cast, and the cultural observations feel authentic and insightful. The novel's compulsive readability deserves particular praise. Despite its length and complexity, the book maintains narrative momentum through skillful pacing and genuine emotional investment in the characters' fates. Areas for Critique The novel's length, while generally justified, occasionally works against it. Some subplot developments, particularly around the extended family members in India, feel less essential to the central narrative. The non-linear structure, while thematically appropriate, sometimes creates confusion about chronology and character development. The resolution of certain plot threads, particularly Sonia's recovery from her traumatic relationship with Ilan, occasionally feels too neat given the psychological complexity Desai has established. The novel's ending, while hopeful, might strike some readers as insufficiently earned given the depth of alienation portrayed throughout. Historical and Literary Context Place in Desai's Oeuvre The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny represents both continuity and evolution in Desai's work. Like The Inheritance of Loss, it examines the costs of displacement and the persistence of colonial and postcolonial trauma. However, this novel shows greater confidence in handling contemporary American settings and a more nuanced understanding of how globalization affects individual psychology. The novel also demonstrates Desai's growing interest in meta-fictional elements. Sonia's development as a writer mirrors the novel's own creation, and the text frequently comments on the challenges of representing Indian experience for Western audiences. Contemporary Literary Landscape The novel contributes significantly to the growing literature of the Indian diaspora while avoiding many of the genre's common pitfalls. It neither exoticizes Indian culture for Western consumption nor simplifies the immigrant experience into a straightforward narrative of assimilation or resistance. Desai's work invites comparison with other major diaspora writers like Jhumpa Lahiri and Mohsin Hamid, but her voice remains distinctly her own. Her particular strength lies in her ability to capture the psychological complexity of cultural dislocation without losing sight of the larger political and historical forces that shape individual experience. Final Verdict The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny stands as a remarkable achievement in contemporary fiction. Desai has created a novel that is simultaneously intimate and epic, specific and universal. While the book demands patience from readers—both for its length and complexity—it rewards that investment with genuine insights into the human condition in our globalized age. The novel represents nearly twenty years of meticulous craft, and that dedication shows in every carefully constructed sentence. This is a book that will likely grow in stature over time, offering new layers of meaning with each reading. The novel succeeds not just as a love story or family saga, but as a profound meditation on what it means to be human in an age of unprecedented mobility and disconnection. In our current moment of global uncertainty and increasing isolation, Desai's exploration of loneliness and connection feels both timely and timeless. Like spiced wind carrying monsoon promises across continents, this review emerges from the generosity of publishers who trust readers with advance glimpses of literary treasures. I received an ARC of "The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny" in exchange for this honest exploration—a small price for the privilege of witnessing Kiran Desai's magnificent return to the literary stage after nearly two decades of patient craftsmanship.

THE LONELINESS OF SONIA AND SUNNY Kiran Desai Thank you @hogarthbooks for this early copy! Out on 9/23–two weeks from today. “Why? Because a fairy tale compels, that’s why. You love the beauty, but secretly you also love the darkness.” “Always tell a big lie, darling, to swallow the truth—with the small ones, you’ll get found out” This is about the watershed moment in which we live, where family and everything shoved under the rug for decades and centuries meets today’s gift and curse of overt individuality and concern with a desperately hard to find Truth, and an even harder to find True Love. It’s about the two titular humans overcome with flooding life who, dare I say, with their mixtures of goodnesses and frustrations, darkness and light, do not deserve one another at all. Like life, this novel is. Like all of us, Sonia and Sunny are. The breadth of Desai’s brushstroke and the layered depths and details of the painting here are boundless—from descriptions of art, to the feelings of a throat closing, to the inner workings of a small corner of New York city (p301) that functions entirely without the English language, to the mystical, magical bits of reality serving as a backdrop to our hyperrealist present. The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny speaks for itself entirely as a genuine, real-life, timeless, modern masterpiece. A beautiful, lush, big big BIG novel. A paragon of 21st century literature.

This book is about being trapped by other people and the question of whether it’s possible to truly break free. It's about forging connections while recognizing that you've been deeply hurt and have deeply hurt others—and probably will again. I loved how Desai gives every character a life philosophy that is simultaneously insightful and humorously flawed. This allows the novel to tackle a sprawling, ambitious range of themes without feeling like a lecture: the echoes of colonization in personal relationships, what it means to be an outsider everywhere, the performance of class, and the messy nature of human connection. The only section that dragged slightly for me was when Sonia was struggling to write her own novel; a plot point I feel like I've seen a few times recently. The sense of place is also incredible. As I mentioned in my “halfway review,” it made me feel nostalgic for places where I spent time in New Delhi in the early 2010s, as well as for places I walked past last weekend. The book later comes back to the topic of what it means to feel nostalgic, and how some people long for a place even while they’re there. I wasn’t sure when the book was set until the timeline clicked into place with the events of September 11th, which provides a stark anchor point affecting characters across the globe. To be clear, this book is not short, and it is certainly not understated. It's a maximalist novel, filled with big ideas, messy characters, and philosophical detours. For me, that was a huge part of its appeal. (Thanks to NetGalley and Hogarth for the early copy.) Halfway review: I'm about halfway through, and I'm really enjoying it. What I'm connecting with most is its exploration of deeply flawed romantic and familial relationships, especially in the first quarter of the book. It feels like Desai is having a lot of fun showing how a couple's or parent-child's dynamic can be a disaster from the foundation up. I'm also loving how rooted the story is in its settings. It's making me feel nostalgic for Hauz Khas and Jackson Heights, even though I currently live only a couple of miles from Sunny’s usual haunts on 37th Avenue. Curious to see how the rest of this very long book unfolds! (Thanks to NetGalley and Hogarth for the early copy.)

This book demands time and patience but, if you’re up for it, it is so worth it. It’s luxuriously long but, none of it felt drawn out to me. I enjoyed reading this slowly and being in this world. These characters were so fleshed out and so real to me, I could wholeheartedly believe they exist somewhere. Kiran Desai explores so many themes and questions in this book, it’s impossible to grasp them all in one reading. I hope to go back to this someday for a reread, I’m sure I’ll get something new out of a second (third, fourth, etc.) read. What a special book.

I loved every page of this novel. Sonia and Sunny were both born in India to parents who desperately wanted to westernize them. They went to college in the US and tried to stay. Sunny does stay. He’s an editor and writer for the AP. Sonia has an excruciatingly toxic relationship with an artist in NY and is kicked out and goes back to her parents house. There is so much more. They fall in love of course but there is so much working against them. First of all, their loneliness. The craziness of being an immigrant from India. It’s such a family centric culture and to live alone in New York City after that is devastating. Just everything about this book. The language, the descriptions of water and mountains. The creatures both alive and in dreams that torment them.

Captivating debut novel that is both sad and funny Violaine has always known her mother, “Maman”, is not quite like the other mothers. Her mother is exquisitely beautiful but also highly passionate and unstable. The first section of the book details Violaine’s childhood, what it was like growing up with a mother suffering from mental illness. Once it has been firmly established that Maman might win the worst mother of the year contest, the book transitions to the life of Maman, and all of the streets traveled that went into creating the present-day Maman. The Book of Mother hit quite a few of my favorite checkboxes: great prose, interesting, great storytelling, disability, and female characters. The author has an extensive vocabulary, and the writing was so extremely well developed especially for a debut novel. The storytelling was spot on, and The Book of Mother was quite a page turner. Maman was clearly mentally ill so the reader could never predict what she was going to do (other than we knew it was going to be a hot mess). The book did touch on how Maman was treated for her physical illness. This is an important discussion point for mental illness where more people would be receptive to treatment if they knew they would be treated humanely. The section of the book told from the viewpoint of Violaine was hilarious which was odd because it was also kind of sad. This led to a very unique reading experience which I thoroughly enjoyed. A word of caution: There are some adult themes in this book that might be disturbing to some readers. The Book of Mother really reminded me of The Glass Castle which perfectly depicts how a child can unconditionally love an abusive parent. Both books are incredibly deep and moving. Overall, if you are in the mood for a book that is very well written, unpredictable, sad yet funny, look no further. *Thank you, Scriber from Simon & Schuster, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and honest opinion. The audiobook was paid for by yours truly using Scribd. 2024 Reading Schedule Jan Middlemarch Feb The Grapes of Wrath Mar Oliver Twist Apr Madame Bovary May A Clockwork Orange Jun Possession Jul The Folk of the Faraway Tree Collection Aug Crime and Punishment Sep Heart of Darkness Oct Moby-Dick Nov Far From the Madding Crowd Dec A Tale of Two Cities Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta

4,5 - I read this due to it being longlisted for the International Booker. I hope it makes the shortlist. It's in the French tradition of autofiction that I find infinitely fascinating and that has become one of my favourite genres in recent years - Carrère, Ernaux etc. It is a very moving portrait in three parts of Violaine Huisman's manic-depressive mother. The first part is a memoir of Violaine's childhood, the second a fictionalised account of her mother before she became a mother, and then a final third part of her mother's death. I found all three parts compelling, especially the first because it was so realistic and vivid.

via my blog: https://bookstalkerblog.wordpress.com/ 𝑶𝒏𝒍𝒚 𝒐𝒏𝒆 𝒑𝒐𝒊𝒏𝒕 𝒄𝒐𝒏𝒕𝒊𝒏𝒖𝒆𝒔 𝒕𝒐 𝒆𝒍𝒖𝒅𝒆 𝒖𝒔: 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒑𝒓𝒆𝒄𝒊𝒔𝒆 𝒎𝒐𝒎𝒆𝒏𝒕 𝒐𝒇 𝒐𝒖𝒓 𝒎𝒐𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒓’𝒔 𝒄𝒐𝒍𝒍𝒂𝒑𝒔𝒆. I was surprised this is a debut novel, the writing is incredibly moving, the story engaging and the emotional unrest in the children’s lives, shocking. Violaine and her sister, elder by two years, deal with the lunacy and recklessness of their parents, who have no sense of structure nor boundaries. Their mother (Catherine) sinks into severe episodes, diagnosed as manic depressive, and ‘a shadow falls’ over them all. As Violaine confides, she had admired her mother blindly, rapturously before her ‘collapse’. Their father can’t be bogged down with the full time responsibility of caring for his girls, so they are shuffled about, staying with friends, while their mother dips in and out of hospital, until the inevitable occurs and he must take them in. It isn’t long before their broken mother comes home, and the girls return to their feral upbringing. At first, after her stays where they’re left to wonder ‘will she ever come back for us,’ Violaine and her sister deal with Catherine’s semi-comatose state, listen to their maman’s tales of abuse and disturbing details about the psychiatric ward at Saint Anne’s. Forced to soothe their mother during her endless sobbing or raging tirades the girls have a formula to dissolve her fury, they live in an endless storm of unpredictability. They suffer Catherine’s parade of lovers, her disreputable friends (junkies even), her endless scenes of theater. She is always apologetic, loving at first after her mad escapades, often ones endangering her daughters the most, but she can never maintain a state of calm nor fill up on her daughters’ adoration. They grow up far too fast, mastering survival skills like brave little soldiers in a war without reason, without a general to lead them. Papa comes and goes, filled with love and endless praises for his beautiful (like their mother), intelligent (like their father) daughters, but is just as lost as their ill mother. Praises and money can’t atone for his absences. At times, Catherine sees him as a warden or worse, a dictator ruling their lives, controlling her with his wealth but she adores him just wildly as she resents him. Mostly, he is like a God they must make sure not to displease and always display gratefulness that he has deigned to honor them with his glorious presence. Catherine’s love for their father is sealed, his education and class is ‘superior’ and something she envies, aspires to. Despite his adultery she adores him but their fights are legion. As Violaine says, it’s as if her father visits with the sole purpose of getting her mother ‘wound up.’ Who is left to deal with the aftermath? Their little girls. Neither of their parents are logical, both just as terrible with money as they are at parenting but dear Papa holds the purse strings and all the power. Violaine manages to hide their disastrously insane living conditions at school, both she and her sister exceling. Everything they do in their lives is to make sure their mother is safe, but it is the “horror of her own history” that provides answers to the ruin. What becomes of children raised in volatile relationships, without support, who learn early on to ‘keep a low profile’ to avoid violence and abuse, which is guaranteed to occur without warning, they become adults trying to dissect the ruins that was their childhood. Worse, they have their own psychological wounds to attend to, the poisonous past has its moments of beauty and love, despite the trauma. How do you sort through the confusion, the fog of conflicting emotions? How do adults define themselves coming from wild instability? How do they unload the tragedy of their mother’s life, and the cost of loving her? What do you owe your parents, in the end? Without consent could be the title too, because so much of what happened to all the characters was out of their hands. No one would choose any of it. Trauma is a venom that seeps through the family line, Catherine’s daughters are heiresses’ to pain. With support, proper treatment, and accountability mental illness is hard enough to define and carry. This is a tale of adults who wash their hands and let the children run things. There are no boundaries, Violaine suffers her mother’s honesty, it’s impossible to remain innocent. Not even the girls pets are free of suffering. Catherine’s illness is a magnet for all sorts of admirers, while she’s young, beautiful and exciting. Her relationships, even those that uproot the girls into a new family, always end in disaster. This is how they grow up, in disturbing circumstances, suffocating in their mother’s messes, because she always makes a mess of life. The sorrow is, she stays alive for so long for her daughters- they are her reason in a world that she can’t seem to root herself fully in. Where was Papa, all this time, the ‘sane one’? Good question. In the end, they loved their impossible mother, whose entire life was one of pain and struggle. A woman who tested and ‘wore out’ the love of everyone beloved to her. If, in the end, Catherine’s face bears the ‘traces of her past’, her girls bear the traces of their own in their souls. It’s a heartbreaking story, I read it months ago and still feel a sinking in my chest just reviewing it. Children who must step into adulthood, failed by everyone around them, violated in mind and body- it’s impossible to stomach and yet so many children do. I think too, it’s a cry for those with mental illness, who have been failed since the beginning of time and not always because, like Violaine’s father, they surrender responsibility- but because they don’t have the resources or knowledge to help. Gorgeous debut. This novel crushed me. Publication Date: October 19, 2021 Scribner

A stunning novel that I found profoundly effecting and moving, the titular character one of the most interesting I've read. A very mature look at the interaction of motherhood, marriage and mental illness.

A modern tragedy.

"She tells herself she must find a way to reconcile her life as a liberated woman with the demands of motherhood, but she's losing her grip, she feels as if she's drowning." I love both the concept and the execution of this book. Despite being partly fiction, it speaks to author Violaine Huisman's childhood and her effort to come to terms with the complex mother-daughter relationship she shared with her own mother, who she refers to as Maman and Catherine. It also gives perspective on broader issues associated with mental health, generational trauma, and what it means to be a woman, especially when a woman is also a mother. Above all, what I loved most about this book is how it shows a daughter trying to piece together what brought her mother to become who she was as a woman and mother herself, especially in part two of The Book of Mother, in which Huisman attempts to tell her mother's story by itself. It reveals that Catherine certainly wasn't the picture perfect mother she seemingly wanted herself to be and that we often expect women to be; she had tumultuous relationships from childhood onward, alongside mental health struggles that affected her everyday life. Despite the hardships, there's so much understanding that Huisman appears to find in her mother as they both become older. It's definitely not something every daughter in a complicated mother-daughter relationship finds or even wants (which is also understandable in that we all have different ways of healing and becoming comfortable with the lives we lead), but I found it nice to see the evolution of seeing one's mother as a more or less average human being both in and beyond that role.

Obviously I am a sucker for a tragic antiheroine. But also the writing was absolutely gorgeous and reading this made me want to go back to Paris and the French countryside again

Eurotrash seems to be a kind of autobiographical fragment… A shard of a family chronicle, of sorts… The biography is postmodernistic and grotesquely fantasized… The disintegration of this family had a fathomless despair about it. And its low point was my mother’s eightieth birthday in the common room of the Winterthur mental hospital. She had sat there, clutching her knees, her greasy ash blonde hair in a ponytail, wearing a pale blue terry cloth tracksuit. The eight-hundred-franc bouquet of flowers from Bahnhofstrasse on the table in front of her; the sunken palimpsest of her face bruised by a drunken fall and coated with deep red crusts of blood, her eyebrows barely discernible now, covered by the zigzag of lacerations stitched up with dark thread. This was the katabasis: the decline of the family expressed in the topography of her face. The story is full of morbid melancholy and dark images of the past… The loving son takes his mother on a trip to some utopian commune in the mountains… Utopia, instead, turns out to be dystopia… We slept in our shared room although I did not sleep, my mother’s snoring gentle and fluttering. Nocturnal thoughts popped up incessantly, those spinning thoughts, a circling of the flame amid the darkness. I was sitting aboard a plane. I was lying in bed, which was a plane. He who goes around and around in darkness will be devoured by it.

4.5. This was great. Strange, disturbing, maddening, and darkly comic. But also tender and ultimately moving. Not just a satire of wealth but a poignant meditation on ageing. Very good - I definitely want to read more of his work.

4.5 stars rounded up. It’s a strange fever dream of a book, comic and absurd and reflective. I was confused as to what it’s actually about, but in the best of ways, and the poignant ending really got to me.

It's so exciting and refreshing reading new fiction which fully represents the complexities of modern gay life. There are romantic moments in “Love in the Big City”, but it certainly doesn't romanticize queer experience. Nor does it wallow in oppression or resentment. Instead it faithfully represents the point of view of a young Korean gay man named Young as he navigates family, friendship and various relationships (some are mere hookups while others are knotty emotional entanglements.) He struggles to complete his education and hold a stable job. Many nights are spent drinking, clubbing or chasing tricks on gay hookup apps. On his first night's leave from compulsory military service “the only three things floating around in my brain were iced Americano, Kylie Minogue, and sex.” He's overweight and aware of where he falls in the pecking order of a cruising culture that classifies men based on superficial physical attributes. His contemporaries have developed more stable jobs and relationships, but he's entirely unapologetic about following his desires and instincts even if it leads to his own undoing. The result is a riveting account of the pleasures and pitfalls of intimacy. Read my full review of Love in the Big City by Sang Young Park at LonesomeReader

You know that feeling when a book absolutely blows your mind beyond what you were expecting? That was Love in the Big City for me. I would recommend this book over and over again. This novel chronicles a South Korean gay man’s life from his early 20s to early 30s. This book was so funny, tender, heartbreaking and rendered its protagonist with so much complexity and nuance. Sang Young Park captures a melancholy that is so particular to queer lives. He never lets the reader steep in it, however, but rather celebrates the specificity of this feeling in all the messy and triumphant moments that make up the narrator’s life. You know when you laugh, but can also recognize that behind that humor is a deep and true sadness? So many passages in this novel felt like that. It also touches on queer millennial loneliness, which really resonated with me and hit the right notes. The story is a brilliant depiction of queer life in South Korea including complex family dynamics, friendships, our deeply human need for love and all the emotional turmoil that comes from the necessity of it in our lives. This really gave me a wider perspective on queer culture in other countries and how it is shaped similarly and differently than my own experiences. The novel is broken up into four distinct sections and the author seamlessly weaves the reader between different points in time. The prose was absolutely knockout, just amazing and gorgeous sentences that I devoured with every turn of the page - this was nice as I was expecting contemporary and I got something much more within the realm of literary fiction and auto fiction. This novel is truly a landmark in modern queer lit, I’m so happy I stumbled upon it and grateful it was translated into English (magnificently I might add). It’s inclusion on the Booker International long list is much deserved.

Set in Seoul, South Korea, Love in the Big City is a warm, playful, emotionally rich novel that weaves together four interconnected vignettes to tell the story of its narrator, Park Young, as he matures over the course of his 20s and 30s. Split into four sections—each of which could conceivably stand alone as a short story—Love in the Big City first introduces the friendship between Park Young and Jaehee, a fellow student who, like Young, spends most of her free time drinking and hooking up with random men. The two move in together, sharing everything, and the platonic love between them is palpable; Young keeps Jaehee’s favorite Marlboro cigarettes stocked and Jaehee buys him his favorite frozen blueberries. When Jaehee uncharacteristically decides to settle down and get married after years of the two sharing their young and free lifestyle, Young feels betrayed and unmoored, which leads to a series of inauspicious romantic trysts. You can read my full review HERE on BookBrowse and a piece I wrote about contemporary Korean literature in translation HERE.

Calling all gay millennials - read this book. Especially if you're living in/have lived in a country where homosexuality isn't exactly approved of. Now, some people talk about this book as if it's four short stories, but I view them as very clearly linked, with a very clear protagonist throughout. Maybe that's just me, but there seems to be a clear journey from college to mid-thirties of Young, a Korean man coming to terms with himself and his identity, and relationships with his mother, a female best friend, a closeted man, and a very sweet bartender. Having lived in South Korea myself, I thoroughly enjoyed all the references, and the depiction of life as a gay man in Korea - partners terrified of anything that could remotely be perceived as PDA, self-hating men, outright homophobia - but also as a gay millennial in general: dating apps, being in that weird liminal stage where the offline world transitioned into the largely online world, the dawn of PreP. The narrative voice really sold it to me here. Young isn't perfect; he's thoroughly and unashamedly human. There's a lot about loss, love and self-acceptance, and our relationships with others, and how we move on from those (or not). A great read!

Sang Young Park’s prose along with the translation of Anton Hur did for me what Sally Rooney couldn’t, and I have finally found my closure for not enjoying any of Rooney’s works. Disclaimer: This is the only time I have brought up Rooney in this review. Love in the Big City is again one of the International Booker 2022 Long-listed titles that resonated with me like no other, besides Heaven. It is a story of friendship, of love, of lust, and essentially of what it is to navigate all of this in a big city. It is messy, it is loud, and sometimes insufferable as well – the way all love is meant to be, but Sang Young Park and Anton Hur give it another dimension – that of pained realisation and temperaments that constantly hover on the page. The story is of the narrator, Young, and his coming-of-age – from college to postgraduate life in Seoul. The book is about the loves of his life (some not so much loves as episodes of lust) – his roommate, Jaehee who moves out after marriage, his cancer-stricken mother, his activist ex he calls Hyung, and Gyu-ho, who makes up most of the second half of the novel. As a middle-aged (I cannot even bring myself to say it but it’s the truth) gay man in India, I could relate to so much of the book. Of the relationship with the mother – constantly mercurial, of the men in his life, and of a woman who is your best friend and most of all the gay identity that runs throughout the book. Young is complicated. It is not easy to like Young and yet you do, because we see so much of ourselves in Young, at least I did. We lead quiet queer lives, till it isn’t all that quiet anymore. The transformation of the queer life from the 20s to mid-30s is mind-boggling. We go from one extreme to another. We want to be visible and that’s what Young does till he doesn’t want to be unacknowledged. Relationships are fragile, emotions even more so. The translation by Anton Hur depicts all of this and more, adding a new dimension of his own to the novel. The pride and shame and loneliness of being gay is so apparent and palpable that it scared me as a single gay man in the big city – where everything is big and sometimes all you need is small, tender expressions of love. I search for them. Constantly.

This book doesn’t sound like anything special — a man recounting his relatively normal life in his mid-twenties to mid-thirties. But I recognized so much of my own experiences in him, and something about the understated descriptions made them all the more poignant.

The amount of books I've read this year about pining should be studied

Real Small Town Irish People Elmore Leonard is dead. He certainly is not creating full-blooded criminals in a small rural town in western Ireland. The maestro of crime drama left us in 2013. But thoughts of him kept emerging as I saw so many things I loved about his work in “Wild Houses.” The characters here are so real– the dialog rings so true. The economy of language is so sharp. We open with a simple kidnapping caper involving drug dealers trying to force payment owed when their merchandise was lost. On the surface, it does not sound all that complicated, just a bare-bones skeleton of a plot, something familiar sounding. And then, we meet the characters. “Doll” English has been kidnapped so that his brother will pay off the thugs. His girlfriend, Nicky, is seventeen and just about ready to break out of the restrictive chains of this little town. The Ferdia brothers are the “masterminds” behind this whole thing, prone to violence with hair trigger tempers. Dev is an unwitting accomplice, pressured into holding the hostage at his house. He is the surprising treasure of the story, sowing his point of view into the action. He befriends the hostage and consistently questions what all this is leading to. The backstory on Dev is that he has been a loner– recently losing his mother and having been deserted by his father. Socially impaired, he was routinely bullied at school before being ignored altogether. “...he began to miss (the) beatings, because the beatings at least involved human contact.” Now he spends his time alone in his house, trying to get a grip on himself with antidepressants and anxiety medications. “He could feel the pill working its sedating magic, calming his blood and thickening his thoughts, making them slow and settle like silt at the bottom of his darkening mind.” This is Colin Barrett’s first novel. He has published two acclaimed short story collections, “Young Skins” and “Homesickness,” both also depicting life in rural Ireland. Those sets, while brilliant, seem to have a darker tone than “Wild Houses.” The darkness is here, with life's struggles and the sense that abandonment is a burden most of the characters share. There is a lot of humor here, however, and the plot races along with a captivating energy. I began by invoking the name of Elmore Leonard. No, I am not seriously banding the two together– that would not be justified at this time. My point is that I miss reading another new Leonard offering– and this book, albeit strongly of the Irish world, brought back many of those same qualities. I missed them. I cannot wait to read more Colin Barrett. Thank you to Grove Atlantic and NetGalley for providing an advance reader copy in exchange for an honest review. #WildHouses #NetGalley @groveatlantic @ColinBarrett82

I can honestly say this is a book I've been waiting for without realising it. I read Young Skins last year and loved Barrett's style. His use of the Irish landscape and those inhabitants who are on the periphery of life is visceral at times. The short stories in Young Skins are a stark look at rural/small town life and I definitely wanted more of the same. Mr Barrett must have been listening. Wild Houses is a reference to those homes where parties, drugs and general wildness occurs. In this book the Wild House belongs to Cillian English, one-timer dealer but now calmed down and living with his girlfriend, Sara. On Friday night Cillian's brother, Doll, his girlfriend Nicky arrive and the four head out to party. But halfway through the night Nicky (who has college ambitions) argues with Doll and the two part ways. Feeling contrite later Nicky goes looking for Doll at home but he is missing and he's not answering his phone. Unfortunately for Doll he has fallen into the hands of Gabe and Sketch Ferdia who have a beef with Cillian. Doll ends up at the home of the quiet, shambling Dev, who only wants some peace in his life. As the story develops we learn the reason for Doll's kidnap, why Dev just wants some peace and Nicky's part in a rescue mission. What Colin Barrett does so well is this slow burn, underlying violence that roars into life when you least expect it. Having read Skins and watched Calm with Horses I spent most of the latter part of this book with my heart in my mouth on fear for the characters. You're certainly not guaranteed a happy ending with Barrett's characters. I loved this book. I love a well written short story but sometimes you find a writer who leaves you thinking "but what now", "what happened to them then". To be fair, Colin Barrett could have extended this book another hundred pages and I'd still have wanted more. He either has a sixth sense (or some fine editor) to know just where to leave your audience wanting more. Highly recommended. If you enjoy Irish lit fiction in general you'll enjoy this. Thanks very much to Netgalley and Vintage Digital for the advance review copy.

Although Wild Houses is a debut novel, Colin Barrett is a short story writer with a devoted following, which goes a long way of explaining why it is so beautifully written, completely immersive, and contains all the elements that make Irish fiction so readable. Here we have characters that stand up off the page, speaking in realistic dialogue, inhabiting a plot that moves at a pace that keeps the reader fully engaged. Central is Dev, who opens his door one night to a couple of local thugs hauling in a bewildered third man who is to serve as a bargaining chip for a ransom demand. Dev's past is the most examined of the cast, giving insight into why he makes the choices he does. To say more would be unfair and take away the pleasure of discovery for a reader. Others have suggested a sequel, and I agree.

Gawwwd, I love this author. First YOUNG SKINS, then HOMESICKNESS, and now this.

The plot, which is narrated in three parts, primarily concerns a kidnapping that has gone awry and how everyone affected by it is forced to act against their nature while discovering new facets about themselves. The story unfolds from the perspective of two characters, the loner Dev, who owns the house to which the Ferdia brothers bring the kidnapped Doll English, and the resourceful Nicky, the young girlfriend of Doll, who is forced to broach unfamiliar territories to free him. The author contrasts the development of these two characters. Read the full review here

Here’s a delight - a sharp and affecting snippet of life on the edge in rural County Mayo. Riddled with anxiety and in and out of depression is Dev Hendricks, in his early 20s, his mother recently dead and his father semi-committed to the local mental institution. He just about gets by with dole payments and by looking after the occasional drug shipment, when he is approached by two notorious local brothers who want to call in a debt on a former accomplice, Cillian English. To hasten the due payment they kidnap his younger teenaged feckless brother Doll. Secured in Dev’s basement things look bad for Doll until his seemingly unsuited girlfriend, Nicky, aspiring to a University education, becomes aware. Despite her losing interest in Dev, she doesn’t want to see him dead. It all takes place over one fractious weekend with Barrett’s strength being his descriptions of the character involved in this chaos; within no time every action of theirs is captivating, in all their complicated, tragic and yet amusing, glory. Wry illustrations are a highlight.. ’He said you'd know him, Nicky said. 'He called you a cunt, if that helps.' 'Yeah, it does, Cillian said. 'What he look like?' 'I don't know. He was in his forties, maybe. Tall enough, skinny, browny-red hair.' 'Did he have an ugly fucking dug-out rat's face on him?' 'He was rough enough looking.' 'And he was on his own? You're sure?' 'I didn't see no one with him. He'd a jacket, said "Tequila Patrol" on the back? 'Fuck's sake. Tequila Patrol; Cillian snarled. 'That fucking prick. Tell me what he said, exactly?' or Work was quiet when Nicky got in. There were several guests having breakfast in the restaurant. Barry Madigan was behind the bar, on his phone. Madigan was in his late forties. He played keyboards in a band. He was tall, with a massive, protuberant forehead like an alien and a woeful arrangement of hair-thin on top and raked back in wide-spaced furrows, the ratty remnant of a ponytail dangling between his shoulder blades. He was sound. He made little to no effort with the job and had somehow never been fired. . Another strength of Barrett’s is to not be tempted to go too far, it all remains completely credible. It’s a pile of fun. Also a debut novel, which leaves the reader enthused as to what he will come up with next.

Like many of the books I love best, this one is set in rural Ireland. It’s centered around a few colorful and shady characters: Dev Hendrick, a lethargic giant of a man who lives with his mutt Georgie, two bad hombre drug-dealing brothers and their former partner Cillian (who owes them money), and Cillian’s aimless younger brother Doll. Linguistically inventive with a dollop of humor and muscular prose, Wild Houses is the kind of novel that sucks you in from the very first paragraph. The bad hombres decide to kidnap Doll and bring him to Dev’s remote safe house location, and then to issue an ultimatum: fork over the $20,000 in drug money or you may never see your little brother again. It’s not exactly the most original premise, but Colin Barrett elevates it to sheer poetry. Dev is not the ordinary lumpy dullard; rather, he is introspective, has some semblance of a conscience, and is trapped in a sort of stasis. Doll (Donal, whose first strivings to say his name, stuck to this day) is going nowhere fast, but he is wily and involved with a woman named Nicky, a fantastic character who may be the only one capable of escaping her fate. And the drug dealers – the thuggish and unpredictable Ferdia brothers? Not exactly the brightest bulbs and driven by their primitive brains. Colin Barrett wisely doesn’t go for the cinematic or the “thrills a minute”, which would have cheapened his book. Rather, he breathes life into the dregs of County Mayo – the drug dealers, the bartenders, the neer-do-wells, the kidnappers – and gives readers a peephole into their moral swamp and inaction. Every character – even the dog – comes across as authentic.

“After Sappho” combines everything I love in fiction: seductive prose, fictionalized history, experimentation in form, and the invitation to go on a parallel multimedia adventure. The book focuses on female trailblazers around the turn of the 20th century, from Virginia Woolf, to Romaine Brooks, to Natalie Barney, Sarah Bernhardt, Lina Poletti and many others. These are all women who don’t belong. They are deemed too interior, too volatile, too alchemical for their times. They defy their circumstances, take on new identities, find comfort in the arms of one another. They burn with a dry rage against the long tyranny of men, then transmute that rage into art. They are writers, actresses, poets, painters, dancers, prophetesses. Guilty of the crimes of sapphism, of insubordination, of harbouring outlandish desires. Schwartz tells their stories in glimpses and in shards. Reading “After Sappho” requires the reader to suspend expectations of plot, of narrative, of dramatic tension. Instead, it invites the reader to kick off her shoes, to venture out barefoot, to find refuge in the work of those who have come before, to reclaim literature, to reclaim language, even if only one word at a time. For women cannot create art by relying on the tools and frameworks designed to oppress them. Or, as Cusk asserts in Coventry, “The women writer might have to break everything — the sentence, the sequence, the novel itself — to create her own literature.” Yes. “After Sappho” is fragmentary in nature, but intentionally so. It is abrupt and full of interruptions, for “interruptions there will always be” (Virginia Woolf). It invites the reader to fill in the gaps, to consult historical texts for missing context. To read Orlando, to connect the dots of Romaine Brooks’ paintings, to pick up The Well of Loneliness, to consult the fragments of Sappho’s surviving poetry. To me, reading “After Sappho” is like the striking of a match. It sparks in me some distant memory, some primal notion of how things could be, even though I don’t quite have the language to explain exactly what, or how, or why. Mood: Defiant, experimental, alchemical Rating: 9/10 Also on Instagram.

After Sappho is many things. It is the story feminism, sapphism and the artistic (and otherwise) emancipation of women, it is the story of Modernism as seen through the lens of myriad (female)artists, it is the story of how language can help define relationships, it is the story of the rise fascism and how the background informs the foreground; It is a history of great women producing great works of art; it is, itself, a Great Work of Art. Written in sharp, vivid and often sumptuous poetic prose (birds are everywhere), After Sappho plots the lives of multiple women (Amongst whom; Virginia Woolf, Gertrude Stein, Natalie Barney, Colette), each inspired by Sappho (or inspired by people inspired by the words of Sappho) to be the writer of their own lives. The lives interweave -in a way most redolent of Sebald- over a period of thirty or so years, ending with the publication of what one must assume is the biggest inspiration behind After Sappho itself. I found myself regularly looking into the lives of the artists referred to, not because I required context, but because there was so much I didn’t know, and wanted to. Its confidence in itself is astonishing- I didn’t know I wanted to know so much about these people (hadn’t heard of plenty) and now I want nothing more than to read everything by them all. A fantastic, educational and often very funny debut novel by a staggeringly talented writer.

I love this book, I'm going to be honest about that. It's so unique, so witty, so poetic, so tragic all at the same time and I believe everyone should read it ASAP

Haunting, hypnotic, delightful and remarkably well written and researched, this hybrid novel will stay with you for an incredibly long time. Part biography, part slice of life, part novel, After Sappho is first and foremost a reflection on queer womanhood and literature, an ode to language and its cathartic power. Through the lives of extraordinary women, Selby Wynn Schwartz weaves together biography and social commentary, gender studies and the classics to illuminate the spaces that queer women have carved for themselves throughout history. The prose is dense and poetic, the material extraordinarily well researched, and the characters fascinating and tormented by then flame of literature, a spark that survived then erasure of some of them and connect their writing to Sappho and History itself.

Adore really.

sapphic historical fiction!! I love being queer and I love queer books!! truly beautiful and stunning and perfect!! “She has practiced all her life the genitive of remembering”

My favourite books take biography, existing literary material, and smash it together into something completely new. After Sappho takes this to a dizzying extreme, a whirlwind of lesbians and sapphists from the cultural past who intersect, find their own paths, and communicate in the most beautiful ways. The result is an extraordinary novel which has forced me to pick up the pen once more on my own.

early 20th century sapphics, you will always be famous to me

Early on there is a line about how many people die in childbirth and there are far less that die in shipwrecks. That line sums up the drive of the restless characters from this book perfectly. This is a book about women who long for adventure. Who don't fear the unknown or the dangerous precisely because they are crushingly aware of the certainty of their deaths merely from staying where they are. Death finds you wherever you are, wouldn't you rather be a challenge for him? To have him find you in a hot air balloon, instead of on a toilet? All it would take is a revolution. A rejection of society's demands. How hard could that be? This is a book about a collection of defiant and resourceful women that really lived and rejected the lives expected of them. Who charted a new course for their lives; often encountering enormous obstacles and not always making it through unscathed. People who held a torch to light the way for countless others. Literary fiction at its finest. It isn't an easy read, but it is infinitely rewarding. It makes use of condensed snapshots of their lives. Moving quickly, it never drops pace. Spectacular staccato blasts of insight into the lives of fascinating women from history. You've got to marvel at a narrative that uses small fragments to build a stepping stone pathway connecting multiple lives. It takes skill for a writer to pull at all, let alone this well. This is definitely a book to be read multiple times, so there is no shame in the first reading bringing nothing more than scrumptious descriptions and emotive quotes. It is a perfect book to underline things in. And it presents plenty of sharp humour to temper the hardships laid out. From the publisher of Ducks, Newburyport I'd expect nothing less. A novel that challenges convention as powerfully as the women it faithfully conjures into being.

I picked this up on a whim from my local Waterstones for 2 reasons - 1. I love reading accessible translated works (1000 Years of Solitude was not the one for me!) 2. It's set La Reunion which is a stone's throw from my family's birthplace of Mauritius so a lot of the cultural touchpoints (carri, rougaille) were things that I grew up with that I don't get to see in a lot of books (remember there are only 3-4 countries in the world for most publishing houses). It's a stream of consciousness piece which...takes some getting used to. But it's sharp, sad and mildly shocking at points BUT so so well written and translated. The story depicts her childhood (awful) her teen years (mildly awful), brief moments where things are ok (super brief), when it's going well and then finally when it goes absolutely and totally pear shaped. The knock-on effect of colonialism, indentured workers is felt throughout the book if not referred to by name and it's just sad to see how lack of investment in their overseas territories (Reunion is a French DOM) impacts the lives of entire families. Her life is full of consistent letdowns by the people around her and she still manages to keep going. It's not...an easy book to read, no one's likable etc. But it's very much a slice of life of a culture that doesn't tend to get much airtime. Really recommend if you fancy something different but covers universal themes.

'There's a Monster Behind the Door' by Gaëlle Bélem. This was a fascinating book, one I got completely absorbed in. The writer is from Reunion and the book is set there. It was written originally in the mix of French and local dialect of the island and there's quite an interesting bit at the front of the book where the translator explains how she chose to translate and what words she chose to leave in dialect. This is the only novel I'm aware of that is from Reunion and has been translated into English (let me know if you know of any others). The story is told from the pov of the un-named main character and is basically the story of her life and of her parents' lives. Her parents are extremely dysfunctional and she is neglected and bullied by them from a very young age. This isn't really a 'woe is me' story though. Instead our main character is headstrong and resilient and, whilst making some good, some unsavoury, and some plain bizarre decisions, makes it through to adulthood. I got such a real sense of the poverty and deprivation that rules the lives of some of the island's inhabitants - something I doubt any of the tourists going for an exotic, tropical holiday would ever see - as well as the terrain, weather, smells, noises and heat, that when I came up for breath I was surprised to find myself in rainy Manchester. The book has won and been listed for many prizes, including being on the long list for this year's Booker. I borrowed it as an ebook from the library, but it's one I'd really like to have on my shelves.

This is the first ever novel from Reunion Island to have been professionally translated and independently published in English I interviewed the author for my blog, you can read the interview here: http://travelssmart.blogspot.com/2024...

It was delightful, gruesome take on a time in history when religion, princes, and peasants clashed together. The author makes good use of interweaving historic events with literary tools to tell a tale of chaos, heated passions, and the struggle to win for the sake of achieving equality but equality of access to religion and religious beliefs.

Well written concise historical retelling of a German uprising. Fresh, bold and memorable writing.

Update 5/10/2023 - he's won the Noble! Update: I have finished now all 3 parts of this novel published separately. And this, first part, has created the most strong impression on me. But all observations below could be equally referred to the novel as whole. There is an episode somewhere close to the beginning when a young man pushing his girlfriend on the swings. She does not want to go high first. But he persists and then she goes higher and higher, and loves it. Also she loves dropping back rapidly. And when the inevitable slowdown comes, she asks for more. And it starts again from slow to quicker and higher all to the point when it takes her breath away. That is exactly the way how reading this book felt to me: from slow and mundane, slightly disorienting to intense, almost painfully poignant. And always in a rhythmical motion. The novel is written in a long rhythmical sentences with the elements of repetition. The words are relatively simple but there is a wonderful music in it a bit like a lullaby for a grown-up, a bit like a fugue. A middle-aged artist goes to check on his friend who, he suspects, is unwell and poisoned with drinking. The novel describes a bit more than 24 hours of his life. The man thinks. The man remembers. That is all. But it is a lot. It is a full-blown struggle with Kant metaphysical trio: God, freedom of will and immortality. Only I do not think the man knows about Kant. He just thinks. "because either God is all-powerful and then there’s no free will, or God isn’t all-powerful and there is free will, within limits, but in that case God is not all-powerful, so ever since God gave humanity free will he gave up his omnipotence, something like that must be true, because without a will that’s free there can’t be love, and God is love, that’s the only thing that is said of God in the New Testament, and that’s why God lacks divine omnipotence, he has God’s weakness, impotence even, but there’s a lot of strength in weakness, yes, maybe the weakness is itself a strength? The man prays. He tries to find his own way to believe and keep his faith. It is questioning the purpose of art from the perspective of its creator. He thinks of his art, a bit like old Plato with his cave, as showing something which cannot be totally seen, just getting close to it: “I know I can paint pictures that only I can paint, because I have my very own inner picture that all the other pictures come from, so to speak, or that they all try to get to, or get close to, but that one innermost picture can’t be painted, and the closer I am to that inner picture when I paint the better I paint, and the more light there is in the picture, yes, that’s how it is “. And then: so I had to paint them the way people wanted them, but none of them saw what I actually painted, nobody saw that, just me, and maybe a few other people, because what I painted were the shadows, what I painted was the darkness in all that light, I painted the real light, the invisible light, but did anyone see that?did they notice that. That is something I was thinking a lot recently in relation to the writers and their work. We had a discussion about Henry James and his story The Figure in the Carpet. In the story, the writer was claiming that there was always a hidden message in his work which so far none of the critics have managed to pick up. Here, it goes even one step further when even the artist does not totally realise the message… And it is simply a moving story of a life lived with its love, loss, the roads not taken, its memories and something that fades forever. I am very unhappy the blurb in English. There are two men in the novel with the same name. Blurb says "He (the other man with the same name) and the narrator are doppelgangers – two versions of the same person, two versions of the same life. " But Fosse is much more subtle, much cleverer than this. He leaves the reader a lot of space to chose his own path through the novel, to form his own view. It is unfair that blurb narrows the scope of the alternative readings, a big disservice to this book. The novel touches upon something universal that is always has been and always will be. And that is why this novel will likely endure. And, the last thing, it made me discover how beautiful “Our Father” prayer sounds in Latin… that’s how it also is with all the paintings by other people that mean anything to me, it’s like it’s not the painter who sees, it’s something else seeing through the painter, and it’s like this something is trapped in the picture and speaks silently from it, and it might be one single brushstroke that makes the picture able to speak like that, and it’s impossible to understand, I think, and, I think, it’s the same with the writing I like to read, what matters isn’t what it literally says about this or that, it’s something else, something that silently speaks in and behind the lines and sentences,

And there is real light only in the shadows, because only in the shadows a glowing becomes a real glowing and this is also true for people and their suffering, their darkness, their memories and their thoughts and some have to paint and some are fishermen and the fishermen catch fish and the painters try to exorcise their suffering, their darkness, their memories and their thoughts through painting and by doing so they start to glow and we see their glowing or feel their glowing, as it is an invisible glowing, but we feel it in our hearts and we feel with them, we suffer with them and we want to help them out of their darkness, because their darkness is also our own darkness and we feel ourselves absorbed in the painter's thoughts and at some level we don't know anymore if these are his thoughts or our own thoughts and so we are part of this book and we see a glowing in our own darkness, it is only an invisible glowing, but it gives us hope nevertheless and this is what art should be about, isn't it? And there are two painters who are called Asle and this is quite remarkable as it seems that they are both two shadows of the same man and as real light only glows in the shadows, these two painters, who are both called Asle, glow very bright in their darkness and one is suffering from alcoholism and one is suffering from depression and so they seem to be the shadow of one man and even though they are suffering, there is also light and light is hope and their art is hope and their friendship is hope and hopefully they will let us be part of their darkness to feel the glow and our own redemption

A clichéd complaint about modern art is that it’s something a child could do – as if little or no thought has gone into the process behind it. In a way, “The Other Name” might serve as an extended riposte to this dismissive attitude as it details in 351 densely-packed pages an artist agonizing over two intersecting lines he’s painted on a canvass. Of course, it’s about much more than that but this is the primary dilemma at the centre of this deeply introspective novel. Asle is an artist living a sparse monastic existence in a small Norwegian village and his only real social contact is with a neighbour that clears the snow from his driveway. But he also occasionally encounters a doppelganger, an alcoholic artist also named Asle who lives some distance away and who he finds near death passed out in a snow drift. As Asle travels to assist his precarious double he moves in and out of memories and fantasies in a way which fascinatingly traverses the usual boundaries of time and space. The result is a moving and complex meditation on the meaning of art, faith and relationships. Read my full review of The Other Name: Septology I-II by Jon Fosse on LonesomeReader

…and even though I don’t understand why it’s at night, in the darkness, that God shows himself, yes well maybe it’s not so strange, not when you think about it, but there are people who see God better in the daylight, in flowers and trees, in clouds, in wind and rain, yes, in animals, in birds, in insects, in ants, in mice, in rats, in everything that exists, in everything that is, yes, there’s something of God in everything, that’s how they think, yes, they think God is the reason why anything exists at all, and that’s true, yes, there are skies so beautiful that no painter can match them, and clouds, yes, in their endless movements, always the same and always different, and the sun and the moon and the stars, yes, but there are also corpses, decay, stenches, things that are withered and rotten and foul, and everything visible is just visible, whether it’s good or bad, whether it’s beautiful or ugly, but whatever is worth anything, what shines, the shining darkness, yes, is the invisible in the visible…

“…say to myself inside myself Kyrie and I breathe out slowly and I say eleison and I breathe in deeply and say Christe and I breathe out slowly and say eleison and I say these words again and again and the breaths and the words make it so that I'm not filled with sorrow any more, with fear, with sudden fear, with this sorrow in the fear so strong that's suddenly come over me and that overpowers me and it's like it's made what's I in me very small, turned it into nothing….” Sorrow, faith and doubt so beautifully expressed. I simply do not have the words to express how much this book moved me.

I’ve seen this book being compared to these authors: Proust, Kafka, Beckett, Knausgaard, Bernhard. So if any of these authors float your boat, it’s safe to say you should get on this ride. Masterful honestly. Gorgeous (haunting, devastating, contemplative) observations with prose that feels addictive once you get used to the rhythm. This book ends in such a manner it’s damn near impossible not to want to pick up the next volume. A future classic for sure.

oh my god. that was incredible. there are times when you flip open a book and know you’re reading something special just a few pages in. if you’re lucky, if the reading gods are guiding you, you close that same book with the weight of certainty that you’ve just read a masterpiece. — in style, story, and substance, septology carries that exact weight of certainty. i’m honestly just stumped as to how to give this book justice. while also ensuring it gets its hands on the right reader, as i also feel it might not be everyone’s cup of tea. i have spent the past hour writing down all my thoughts on this book that it is now a full two posts worth (curse you character limit). let me break it down into three sections: story, style, substance. part 1: story and style story — the very thing that hooked me. set in norway with our ageing painter and widower, Asle, who lives alone, with his neighbor that occasionally visits. but wait, we’re introduced to another Asle, living a few cities over, effectively his doppelganger, where the devil is in the details. we basically have two versions of the same person. two versions of the same life. do they just coincidentally have similar lives? is one imagining the other? is the other just a memory or a what if of life? who knows. i’m also just in the first two books. and in telling this story, the focus is not on the big grand events (in the very rare instance) but on the minutiae. the tension that comes from domestic life. the terror from intrusive thoughts. which brings us to the book’s substance. substance — flipping the book over to the description, my book’s copy asks: “what makes us who we are? and why do we live one life over another?”. and as it asks, we basically have our two Asles navigating each other’s days and lives in slightly different contexts, yet asking themselves the same existential questions on the meaning of life and love, dealing with grief, their faith in god, their hope and hopelessness, and plenty more. and up to this point, style aside, i can already easily say this is one of the best books i’ve read in years. and yet, it doesn’t stop here. because what really sets this book apart and really brings the story together is its style. it’s unique style of being one continuous monologue with effectively no line/paragraph breaks across the septology, a style often used to give a sense of urgency is used to the opposite effect here — but just lands as, if not even more, effectively style — jon fosse’s prose is one that will be very daunting to many, as was the reason for me putting this off for the past 4 years. setting aside the fact that it is a septology (7 books), jon fosse writes this novel in a very distinct style — simply put, the whole septology is one long monologue with no paragraph or line breaks. terrifying, i know. basically one long sentence/paragraph that just never ends. how do you take a break from reading? how do you sustain your attention? how do you build a story with just one monologue? how dense must it be to just be staring at bricks of text in every single page spanning what is effectively seven books. and yet jon fosse does it so effectively. switching from the first and third person, weaving through thoughts, ideas, memories, conversations throughout the book with intentional changes of pace, rhythm, and tone — without it ever being out of place or done in random. a style that forces the reader to place much importance in every single word that is being read. you skip or skim through a few words and you find yourself in a different frame of mind from the protagonist’s perspective. suffice to say, jon fosse’s septology is not a book to be read through quickly. it is a work that is best experienced in full appreciation of its style, story and substance.

‘…and it’s always, always the darkest part of the picture that shines the most, and I think that might be because it’s in the hopelessness and despair, in the darkness, that God is closest to us, but how it happens, how the light I get clearly into the picture gets there, that I don’t know, and how it comes to be at all, that I don’t understand,… ‘ p92/3 I’m left in a state of reflection and wonder having just finished The Other Name by Norwegian writer, Jon Fosse, a deeply meditative meander through life as it is experienced, processed, understood and reflected on by Asle, ageing artist and widower in the remote south west of Norway. Fosse is an astounding author and this is my first foray into any of his writing and I completely understand why he is the Nobel prize for literature winner for 2023. Drawn as I am to Scandinavian literature, Fosse reinforces in every way my love for the writers who hale from this part of the planet. How do I begin to do justice to this book in a review? Fosse writes in one long meandering stream of consciousness. There are no full stops to separate sentences or thoughts as one thought begets another and another as life happens to Asle over a two day period in what is the first of the trilogy ‘Septology’ by Fosse. It’s not so much a happening as a being and an experiencing and a thinking. There are two Asles who interplay throughout the book, one person, two versions, similar but slightly different, same person, two slightly different experiences. This took me a while to wrap my head around and to be honest took me about 100 pages to process to begin with. Even now I’m unsure that I have processed exactly how Fosse intended but at the same time I think perhaps he intended this to be our experience of reading this magnificent book. I was honestly transfixed on the flow of the word thoughts, reminisces, experiences of both Asles… even as they interacted with one another and I started wondering and reflecting what it would be like to have a such a stream of consciousness throughout my day, permeating my being, in such a state of being an observer of myself, the light and the dark and the shades in between. I love the way Fosse returns to the theme of light and dark and how the light can be seen in the dark. I love the way Asle uses his painting to get his thoughts out of his head and to express himself and to experience the darkness on the canvas and then to turn off the lights and see the light in the darkness in what he’s painted. Both sections of the book commence with Asle thinking about and experiencing his painting of two lines intersecting, one purple and one brown, St Andrew’s Cross as friend and neighbour, Åsleik tells him it looks like. There is something in this painting that Asle returns to again and again. Asle takes us on long journeys through his process of faith, converted to Catholicism, his beliefs and his processing of his beliefs. This was honestly beautiful and so real and raw. I loved this so much and resonated with it. The Other Name is an experience of life, emotion, wondering, reflecting, being… I am privileged to have been able to read it. I want to observe myself in such a way as I make my own way through my day.. observing my thoughts and wonderings.. the light and the dark, the darkness in the light and the light in the darkness.

I deeply dislike doppelganger novels. They are trite, and boring, and pointless: if you can't do it with one person, why think you can do it with two? Well, this is the only one I will read. Stunning story, imagery, language, and ambition. Highly, highly recommended.

reading for Book club in August, final thoughts then. But for this moment - I found this a profound read, however strange to be mixed totally within something so easy to read, so easy to digest - once you get over the style - which is really akin to listening to music but goes deep and goes deep fast we are dropped into Asle's thoughts, at least Asle #1, there is another Asle#2 with an almost parallel universe which crosses over into Asle #1's world at many points, and from there, despite seeming slow and measured, this is a whirlwind of Asle's life, so many people are inside his head, the living and the dead, and they come to life, I feel as if I am there, trying to see the light inside Asle's paintings, and into his wife's icons hanging in the parlour, and then, into the snow falling at Advent, and the young Asle and young Ales loving each other in the snowy playground, yes and the good solitary farmer with the good eye that sees the light in the pictures, but doesn't see the light that Asle sees from God this is a book like a painting that I've never seen and wish I could see, but I can see, inside my head 5 stars because everyone should read it, because it's genius, even if I don't understand painting and I don't have a dog

Potential Spoilers Ahead! This novel totally shows off Richard Powers’s signature style - mixing deep emotional moments with sharp takes on current events and a really cool look at how humans and nature connect. Honestly, it deserves a spot on the shortlist for the 2024 Booker Prize. At its core, the book is all about protecting the environment, with a big focus on the ocean. But unlike his earlier works, which were all about the battle between destruction and preservation, Playground follows Evie, a marine scientist, as she endlessly explores the ocean and marvels at its wonders. Powers paints the underwater world so beautifully - every creature comes off as innocent, charming, and mysteriously wise. Once you’ve seen the magic of the deep, it’s hard to forget. Then there’s Todd, another main character who dives into today’s hot topics like AI and social networks. His story - and his connection with Rafi - brings out a bittersweet vibe about loneliness, friendship, and where things ultimately lead. Todd’s crew of tech geniuses have whipped up AI and social platforms that seem to have taken on a life of their own, maybe even in a bid to create a never-ending, perfect game. The book’s “playground” is this multi-layered world: Todd’s social platform, the ocean seen through Evie’s eyes with its countless swimming creatures, the evolving friendship between Todd and Rafi, and even Ina’s artistic universe. But bit by bit, everything starts to fall apart. The ocean suffers from human actions taken in the name of progress, and though we don’t know exactly what price we’ll pay, it’s clear that true harmony between humans and nature is slipping away. That leads to a radical new path, one where AI starts pushing boundaries. Still, the roles of who’s in control and who isn’t remain up in the air. Powers’a storytelling pulls you right into these heavy themes. With multiple narrative perspectives bouncing between different times and places, you quickly get a feel for each character and their intertwined stories. After just a few chapters, you’re pretty confident you’ve got the plot figured out. But then, I was totally caught off guard. I’d assumed the “I” narration was just talking to us, the readers, and that the third-person sections were simply there to tell different characters’ stories. So when an important twist hit in the second-to-last chapter, I was nearly floored. Turns out, Powers had set up this entire playground where readers are actually cast as a super-evolved, all-knowing AI—one that’s picked up on every story and has the power to rebuild a world where the lost can come back. All those third-person bits? They were stories the AI was feeding Todd, drawing him into a new game of reunions and farewells. Everything is reset in an instant, and it’s never too late to change course. It’s a brilliant twist that pulls you deep into this ocean of fiction, stirring up both sadness and awe. At that moment, Powers nails it - showing off the wild possibilities and potential terrors of AI. Whether it’s a trick or a miracle, it all depends on how you look at it. A fun little detail is in the dedication where Powers writes to Rayray: “750,000 thanks to you, better yet, let's make it a million.” I was stumped until I noticed those same numbers popping up throughout the book. Yeah, that’s the playground. 4.6 / 5 stars

It didn’t take a supercomputer to figure out we’d get another remarkable novel about artificial intelligence from Richard Powers. In 1995, Powers published “Galatea 2.2,” his Pygmalion tale about training a neural network called Helen to take a graduate exam on Western literature. At one point in that haunting story, after Helen has finished “reading” fiction and poetry, she’s given a CD-ROM containing recent news, human rights reports, political exposés and police bulletins. Overwhelmed by the horrors of human behavior, Helen announces, “I don’t want to play anymore.” Well, almost three decades later — a millennium in computer time — Helen’s got her mojo back. Powers’s new novel, “Playground,” leaps across the circuits that enable large language models and delivers a mind-blowing reflection on what it means to live on a dying planet reconceived by artificial intelligence. The book won’t be officially released until Sept. 24, but it’s already been named a finalist for the Kirkus Prize and longlisted for the Booker Prize. Although “Playground” is nowhere near as mammoth as the author’s Pulitzer-winning opus, “The Overstory,” it follows a similarly fragmented structure. But trust me, any disorientation will eventually melt into wonderment. The main narrator, Todd Keane, was once “a soldier for the digital revolution” and is now its king. He’s a world-famous tech genius who created an app called Playground. Part Facebook, part Reddit, Playground has hooked billions of daily users by gamifying engagement in a self-contained economy that runs on Playbucks. Closely shadowing the influence of social media, Playground affords Powers the opportunity to satirize and mourn the platforms that have colonized our lives. When we meet Todd, he’s been diagnosed with. . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

Brilliant. The book I've been waiting for someone to write. Bravo Richard Powers. In Playground, Powers explores the oceans. They cover nearly three quarters of the planet and we know less about them than we do about space. And yet we are still managing to pollute them to such an extent that plastic has been found in the Mariana Trench - 6.7 miles down at Earth's lowest point. The book revolves around the tiny island of Makatea, an atoll in French Polynesia in the middle of the Pacific ocean. It has a fascinating history that Powers delves into suffice to say it has been ravaged before by outsiders. The main characters are Rafi, a young brilliant black guy from the wrong side of the tracks; Todd, the son of wealthy parents; Ina, an artist who becomes Rafi's girlfriend; and Evelyne, a deep sea diver. Todd narrates the present, explaining how he and Rafi came to create Playground, an all encompassing "game" that has made its creator billions of dollars. Juxtaposed with this technology is life in Makatea where people live a natural life that depends on the ocean that surrounds it. The clash of cultures comes when a new project to create floating living spaces off the coast is mooted to the islanders. Should they accept the offer to create more jobs and wealth or should they preserve their way of life and save the ocean. I thought Overstory lost its way and Bewildered just a rehash of Flowers for Algernon. This book, however, did not disappoint in any way. The writing is superb. The characters are engaging. The situations believable yet horrifying and all I could think when I'd finished was "if only". The narrative talks a lot about the oceans and AI and many other issues that affect every one of us on this planet. I'll be honest, it took me a little while to get into this book but once I saw where it was going I was hooked. I loved it. I've always been fascinated by the deep oceans and so I fell hook, line and sinker for this incredible novel. Powers must have done some heavy duty research for this novel. It was worth it. Stunning. (And if you struggle imagining these creatures and the amazing lives they lead then watch Sir David Attenborough's Blue Planet and Blue Planet II). Thankyou so much to Netgalley and Random House for the advance review copy. Most appreciated.

The Earth is a playground for living things. Whether we physically labor, work with the intellect, or help in social services, we all engage in play in some form. Writing book reviews and working in my garden are ways that I play. As I would expect from a Richard Powers book, Playground is full of ecological wonder. We meet Todd who escapes his toxic and wealthy family by walking under water and honoring the sea creatures. Todd develops a deeply intimate friendship with Rafi in college. Rafi pursues poetry while Todd is committed to starting up an AI gaming platform. In a way, capitalism is presented as a type of game where people can work in exchange for goods and climb the ladder for success, presenting a never ending dilemma which could go in a dangerous direction. As a mixed race friendship, Powers captures the complexity of the bond, and the deep hurt that swells between them. Soon, Rafi falls in love with Ina, a native of French Polynesia. Todd has feelings for her too, and the bond I would have thought could never be broken ends painfully. Rafi and Todd have different ideas of what is fun in play and when the game is over. These different perspectives are catalysts at examining the current world state. Todd's AI network eventually finds its way to French Polynesia where the question is for the future of wildlife and native species there. I found the conversation amongst the islanders about the pros and cons of using this new technology very interesting. This book is lingering on the precipice of what is happening presently in our reality and presents ideas for ways to move forward so we can all play together on our playground cooperatively.

Powers really knows how to write a deep dive about the intersection of humanity and nature that is still a banging good story. This is the third of his books I’ve read and loved, and surely not the last. In Playground, Powers turns his attentions to the magnificent, mysterious, absorbing world that are our oceans. Through this medium, he tells a story about big issues and ideas like technological development, AI, capitalism and its environmental impact, and the tentacles of colonialism. Where it could be didactic, it never feels it, because it’s a story with a living, breathing heart. A world where characters, and the planet are alive. It’s the best book I’ve read this year. Exquisite. A travesty this wasn’t even shortlisted for the Booker, it should have won.

Stunning. It leaves me speechless.

So fuckin' awesome. Awkward family dynamics in childhood, friendship, love, vocation, gaming (chess, Go, and some video), the rise of information systems and artificial intelligence, and most deeply, that source of all life on the planet, mother ocean. Deep, insightful, wonderful, filled with awe of where we are and who we are. Another big win from Powers, whose Overstory I also loved.

Time for another ‘Blind Library-pic’ 📚 First up I have to say this book was a MASSIVE undertaking and a HUGE accomplishment! It is my first Richard Powers’ book and I have been totally blown away by his writing ability. 👏🏼 This story is essentially a love letter to the Ocean 💙 …but the scary thing is, whilst reading this book, I couldn’t tell if it was real or dystopian 🤨 Quick summary: Richard Powers draws together the lives of 4 individuals in this far-reaching novel. Evie Beaulieu. Ina Aroita. Rafi Young. Todd Keane. They all meet on the tiny island of Makatea in French Polynesia. This special little corner of the world has been chosen for humanity's next experiment: a floating, independent city out into the open sea. But first, the island's residents must vote to greenlight the project or turn the seasteaders away. This magnificent story is set in the world’s largest ocean, exploring topics from colonisation, AI, destruction and preservation of our environment and deep, complex human connections. Personally, I found the first 50 pages a bit hard to wrap my head around. I wasn’t sure who’s POV I was looking at; It seemed to be a random collection of different lives mashed together…then it got GOOD! The thing was, it was a collection of different lives, weaving in and out through time and place. I just had to get my head around where I was and who was narrating. The characters in this book are what really and truly made this a very special read. Evie - WOW, was she a powerhouse. At the age of only 12, she was first person in the world to use Aqualungs; allowing her to dive deep into the ocean. To breathe underwater. A whole new grace came over her. She had never felt at home on land, above the surface, with its noise and politics. She was made for the water. 80 years later, at the age of 92, Evie had secretly nursed the wish to die diving. But first, she had one last task to accomplish: to compile another book - ‘to try one more time to make the land dwellers love the wild, unfathomable God of waters.’ Evie was adventurous, fearless, naive, and crazy passionate, but only about the sea. ‘She swam at night, in waters full off bioluminescent plankton. The sea sparkled like silent fireworks….’ ‘With luck, Evelyn might live to see the stunning ritual one more time: the great mating courtship train of two dozen or more mantas swimming head to tail, twisting and weaving and corkscrewing through the reef like a high-speed, crazed conga line.’ Then, we have Ina Aroita who was born in Hawaii before moving to the tiny island of Makatea to garden and fish and weave and knit a little and raise two children, all the while trying to remember why she was alive. In her youth, she was liquid confidence. She grew up on naval bases across the Pacific. Art was, and still is her only home. And then, we have the boys. They were total opposites, yet they created a deep bond over a 3 thousand year old board game. Rafi Young, a man after my own heart - he was a book man: “I can get free. Sometimes. But only when reading. When I read… the other place is more real than this one.” He totally lost, and found, himself in literature. Todd Keane was probably my least favourite character. He was a computer man. AI was his thing. His startling ability to create computer codes was slightly concerning to me, as he created crossed the line into controversial computerised territory. The story follows the lives of these four individuals, going back and forth in time and changing POV frequently. These characters were so complex and unique. I wanted them to be real; they certainly felt real. The story was told in such a unique fashion, and very much character driven. However, the way Powers’ intricately described the underwater world was phenomenal. The core of this book was about protecting the environment, largely focused on the ocean; yet it felt so much greater. The way Powers’ created a deep connection between nature and humanity was brilliant and beautiful. I can’t put into words how expansive and powerful this book was. All I can do is highly recommend it, to one and all. “How inappropriate to call this planet Earth, when clearly it is Ocean.” 🌎 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟

Written from multiple narrative perspectives and moving back and forth in time gives this novel a somewhat disorientating feel. At times, I felt a little 'at sea'. At no point did I find this an easy read but like Powers' novels 'The Overstory' and 'Bewilderment', 'Playground' is thought-provoking and leaves the reader willing to invest in it: changed. Powers is clearly a literary genius. The theme of exploration is considered through our exploration of the oceans as well as exploration of AI as we enter the fourth industrial revolution. The theme of 'play' overlays both these ideas. This novel encapsulates what it means to be alive in 2024 - with concerns over climate change and the accelerating speed that AI is taking off and is inevitably going to change how we live and die and live. This is a remarkable read. I would be shocked not to see this make the Booker lists in 2025. Thank you to NetGalley for providing me with an ARC.

Rating: Pulitzer material Richard Powers has demonstrated his mastery of theme, plot, characters and premise for years and with this story, he ups the ante. Evocative, enlightening and engaging, the reader is immersed in a story world that toggles character back story to the present as 'building blocks' for whats to come. Driven by themes of friendship, family and advancing technology, we're introduced to Todd Keane, Rafi Young, Ina Aroita and Evie Beauleau whose lives will impact one another's on the island of Makatea. As the narrative progresses, contrast plays a role as do ecology vs technology that illuminate critical issues facing humanity and Mother Earth. Powers' lyrical prose and research engage the reader as does the emotional context. The title can be interpreted a variety of ways due to Evie's experiences with giant mantas rays, Keane's billion dollar company or Rafi and Todd's friendship. Regardless, this is a remarkable work and for those who prefer inspired storytelling as I do, it can't be recommended enough! I feel its a disservice to expose details, plots, back story and specifics especially for narratives of this quality, however if you feel a need to know, read reviews from others :) Do yourselves a favor and add it to your list and immerse yourselves in a remarkable journey.

Definitely my favourite of the five Booker nominees I read this year. One of my best-loved themes is when a character turns their deep passion for something into their profession - think The Amazing Adventures of Cavalier & Clay, Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, and Tomorrow and The Animators. In Playground I hit the mother-load as all four the characters - tech whiz, poet, artist and deep-sea diver does exactly this. I love getting to experience their devotion for their callings vicariously. But there so much more to this easy-reading, engaging novel with it's multiples story lines and divergent themes. I especially enjoyed the focus on play and how the author interweaves it through all the narratives. I wasn't a 100% sure what happened at the end and had to google it. And yes, this final "play" by the author was a fun idea and an extension on the main theme, but for me it didn't really add anything to this panoramic story.

Loved the story!

Review To Follow...

Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war. Review to follow.

"Once people witnessed the abundance of underwater life, once they lived there, they would ache to take care of the place like it was their home." "As Arthur C.Clarke has observed:'How inappropriate to call this planet Earth, when clearly it is Ocean'." Talk about the most relevant book of 2024! This book takes on some of the most radical ideas that are in circulation and builds a tale in parts fascinating, in parts scary and for most parts entertaining. Richard Powers flexes his research capabilities and writes a book that does to Oceans what Overstory did to trees. 70% of the world is made up of oceans and is it any wonder that the humans would soon want to colonise this? Makatea is an Island of 82 people which is chosen for seasteading pilot - a concept very much in vogue and being toyed around the world by billionaires as tax havens. The residents of the island, including children, get a vote to decide if they are to choose growth over the ocean. Among the residents is an artist and teacher couple who once upon a time made a trio with an AI pioneer. Rafi is a philosopher poet (black) who wanted to raise the dead in words. His wife Ina is an islander and artist who is building a sculpture from plastic that gets washed onto the shores. We see the writing of Toddy Keane, the son of a billionaire, whose friendship with Rafi defines him and he goes onto become the pioneer of AI who creates the virtual world of Playground. Watch out for the chapters on Deep learning and machine learning that gives a layman gist of what the potential of the technology is - even if it over simplifies it. Evelyn the nonagenarian marine biologist has some of the best parts describing the world under the ocean. Chapters written to inspire awe in the reader with playful Mantas, symbiotic shrimp and gobi fishes and a whole new world. Her book and her life inspires the world to understand the ocean better and she finds herself on the island as well. With Mr.Powers, it is not the story but the ideas. Like how the children should get a vote in any decision that impacts the future. Or how an AI system left to figure out the best strategy for living on earth, would probably choose not to do the mistakes we did. I probably highlighted more passages than I have done in quite some time. This book has the power to change. And hence I wish it gets the recognition it deserves. Thank you Netgalley for the ARC copy of this book.

I am a complete fan of Richard Powers. I have read all except his first two books and he has never disappointed me. He is so smart, he is so good at integrating the science of our days with the lives we live, and so full of heart. Playground is about many things: the ocean, the creatures and living entities in it, the divers who explore it and the islanders in French Polynesia who have seen exploitation come and go. It is about men and women who have dreams for themselves and other creatures. It is also a unique viewpoint concerning AI and how this growing technology impacts all aspects of our planet from writers to coral reefs to pretty much any part of life you can imagine. I loved Playground. I was not always sure what Richard Powers was trying to tell us, and I will at some point reread it. The story works on many levels and I want to make sure I comprehend all of those levels. I reread the ending three times, I have discussed the book with my reading group, I have watched every interview I could find with the author. In recent years I have discovered the riches that come with rereading. Have you read Playground? If so, what surprises did you find in it? If not, I recommend this novel to every serious reader. Reread: I reread this before the second reading group of mine who read it, to make sure I understood the ending and to clear up some confusions I had. I read it like an assignment, keeping a list of characters, following the story line, the jumps between times and places. It took me many days. I got to the end and understood quite a few things that had mystified me the first time, especially all those sections in italics. I did all this work because I wanted more understanding but also because I had recommended the book to that group and wanted to be able to defend myself in case no one liked it. Happily, the majority did love it and some even seemed to get it better than I did! The only thing that still nags at my mind is what was Richard Powers trying to tell us? I got it that the ocean is adept at repurposing much of the garbage we throw into it, that sea creatures can adapt to almost anything, that people are amazing in both good and bad ways. I am still not sure what he was trying to tell us about AI. Perhaps he just wanted to ponder this new technology, just as most of us are doing.

If you have read any of Powers' previous novels, you don't need to know more than this: this is another masterpiece which you will absolutely adore. If you are new to Powers, I have this to say: read this, but also read his previous two novels, for though they are not connected they form a triptych of sorts. The themes that run through this have echoes in his other works, and reveal an intellect, curiosity and empathy for the human world missing in most other novelists works. Powers is indeed writing at the top of his game here. This novel has multiple stories and narrators, and reading it does require concentration from its reader. However you are soon swept up in the literary swell that you won't feel adrift. Powers takes you on a journey under the ocean, into the cyber world, and to a very human love story. It is gripping, powerful stuff and makes me very grateful that writers like Powers are still writing and being published. I fully expect to see this on awards shortlists in the coming literary year. This is a superb novel, epic in scope yet intimately told. Just read it. It is already my favourite novel of 2024, and I cannot see how it can be beaten! Thank you to Netgalley and the publishers for the ARC.

Sheer genius and I am not exaggerating. Just how Richard Powers managed to pull this off increases my admiration for this author’s talents. Told in three narratives: one about two friends creating AI, another about a marine biologist and the third about a Polynesian island that will undergo heavy development. They are all tied up but in a way that will raise the reader’s eyebrows. Infusing themes such as artificial intelligence, art, underwater life and conservation Richard Powers has written a novel that not only reflects contemporary society’s problems but in a way that will dazzle. Then there’s the writing! So many descriptions about sea life - I just loved reading about manta rays and shrimps and sharks.Plus there are heartbreaking moments as well. It’s 100 % accessible (as opposed to the more pynchonian writing of his works pre Overstory) This is not highly recommended but mandatory reading.

This was pretty much everything I expected and wanted ... and more. Sure, I preordered it. And, yes, much as I enjoyed The Overstory (and agree that it was a deserved Pulitzer Prize awardee), I actually preferred Bewilderment, which, as I was reading (and savoring it), felt as if it were written specifically for me. (Ah, hubris!) And, OK, laying my cards on the table, it didn't hurt that, thrilled as I was that Powers spoke at one of my kid's college graduations, it was icing on the cake that his speech was one of the best I've witnessed (and, alas, I've been to more than my share of graduations). Fortunately, the book didn't disappoint. Rather, it not only frequently defied description, but it exceeded expectations. I concede that, at numerous points, I thought of this work as a nice, almost elegant, companion to Zevin's well-crafted Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, ... and, frankly, I'm glad I read Zevin's offering first. In terms of Powers' prior work, I wasn't surprised to see, in the acknowledgements, a reference that brought me back to the thread from the non-fiction Finding the Mother Tree (which I can't recommend enough) to The Overstory. But none of that diminishes the creativity in play here (sorry about the pun), or quality of the construction and effectiveness of the delivery. At some level, I wonder whether the number of themes in play here - from programming, gaming, and artificial intelligence (or machine learning), to scuba diving and oceanic exploration and climate change, with more than a dollop of broken families and the refuge (or sanctuary) of libraries and the transformative, life-altering privilege of higher education, to friendship and parenting and language and, oh my, aging, memory loss, and the quandaries posed by navigating one's end-of-life - might turn off some readers. But, at least from my perspective, I found all of the threads compelling, and Powers wove them together into a cohesive, integral, poignant, and ultimately satisfying, whole. Part of me is curious to hear what a true newcomer - to Powers or the book itself (picking it up and reading it with no preconceived notions or biases) - would make of it. But I can't walk in those shoes. It worked incredibly well for me, and I strongly recommend it.

My expectations going into this book were on the low side as I wasn't a huge fan of Bewilderment, but I ended up liking it very much and totally see why it was nominated for the Booker longlist. As a young child, Todd, is totally mesmerized by a book written by an elderly oceanographer, Evelyn, which he wins when he beats his father at chess. Todd is arguably both the protagonist and antagonist of this book which slowly reveals Todd through different lenses. His love for Evelyn's book. His relationship with a young black man, Rafi, with whom he is constantly competing - - to both his benefit and detriment. His unbridled ambition and need to win. His struggles with Lewy body dementia. It's hard to know where this book is going with these disparate storylines, but each one is engaging in its own right. From beautiful descriptions of the ocean, its creatures, and man's relationship with the sea to insights on the double edged sword that is technology and artificial intelligence, Powers writes a sweeping novel that at the end of the day is more plot driven than anticipated. From my perspective, the entertainment value was more in the 4 star realm, but after I finished the book, I literally went right back to the beginning and started re-reading huge swathes of it. And lo and behold, there's some really great foreshadowing and big picture storytelling going on here, and I find books like this endlessly interesting to pick apart and discuss. So 5 stars it is! Kudos Mr. Powers for changing my opinion of your work. I'll definitely be revisiting more of it.

** spoiler alert ** When I say spoilers I mean SPOILERS. Don’t read until you have finished the novel. 6 stars Absolutely stunning. I tried ‘Overstory’ before and stopped so I need to go back. This book is incredible. It’s annoying me that so many people in their reviews and comments are giving the ending away. Luckily I didn’t read any too closely as I was reading but it could have ruined it for me. It’s really important to not know the meta narrative version of the story. The writing is incredible. I dive and it truly is one of the most wonderful things to do but to write about the world underneath in the way that Powers does blew my mind. There are multiple narrators who as you can imagine connect in various different forms by the ending. Which is INCREDIBLE. The ending I mean. Utterly. People have seemed confused about the ending. Or irritated. I thought it was perfect. We begin to get clues about half way through that there are two versions of Todd’s story. I listened to it so can’t quote or be exact, annoyingly (yet another book I need to get a hard copy of). And my spellings might be wrong. Soon after Ina and Rafi are introduced on the island in one chapter, Todd, elsewhere in his own narrative, says that this moment was where things began to go wrong between Ina and Rafi. There are many indications from the start that Rafi will break and be unable live up to his potential. It was clear too that Rafi had the idea to gamify Playground and that Todd would take this idea and not credit Rafi. So from the start it is clear that the two of them fall out. And gradually the two Rafis in the novel begin to be different people. So I began to understand that one of these narratives was a fantasy narrative that Todd was creating. Or having created for him. It was only towards the end that I began to work it out. Todd was dying. He had made a mess of his life despite being so wealthy. He was lonely and a voluntary ‘incel’ as he describes himself. His brain was slowing down so that he couldn’t remember things and he was disorientated in his movements. He gives his third generation AI ‘being’ all the correspondance he had with Ina and Rafi - and we are told this several times (‘You read the emails,’ he tells the ‘reader’) and the grandchild of his first AI creation is able to generate believable and positive stories about all the various people in his life who had had an impact. Evie, Ina and Rafi Evie - I did wonder when that book he read as a child would come back. I don’t remember if we ever learnt its name but I should have realised when Evie tells us about the amazing book she wrote (I want that book - what a chapter that was when she explained what she wrote. And of course in a way we have that book in the form of ‘Playground’. I am definitely getting a hardcopy!) So in Todd’s fantastical world Evie lives beyond 70 and gets to resolve a few things. But not all. She still has terrible relationships with her children and now it seems her grandchildren. (But of course Bart’s death which is so beautiful in the novel is - we realised at the end - all AI generated.) And here is the thing. When we read a novel we enter into a contract with the author - if you create a believable world for me, I will indeed believe it until the book ends it. It’s about trust. That’s why bad writing can be so jarring - we are reminded that there is a Writer behind the text. When a writer shakes the foundation of the contract (to mix my metaphors) it is very uncertain. And we can question the role of the narrator. The role of creators. The role of truth. There are plenty of writers who do this brilliantly elsewhere. I am not going to cite too many cos of spoilers but Kate Atkinson’s ‘Life After Life’ is an example of this which doesn’t involve ruining the story. Powers is showing us through AI the way that we construct our own various alternative narratives. Our own day dreams. If this hadn’t happened, maybe this would have done. We can have everyone living happily on an island. Interestingly based on Todd’s character that the AI model has understood, he still has to sabotage things and have control. He still wants to ‘gamify’ the island. It’s like he still hasn’t learnt where he went wrong all along. Just so he can have a nice death and be forgiven by his friend. And of course it is a commentary on AI too but not so much I think. It’s more about the narratives we create for ourselves. Sadly in no version of this story does the sea not get trashed. Back to Rafi. Rafi is a damaged boy whose ‘success’ was always going to be associated with the death of his sister and the absence of his father. He has too much to prove. He was always going to implode. So when he goes off the rails I was sure that he wasn’t ever going to be living in harmony with Ina on a Polynesian island. His true final contact with Todd is to ask for $750,000. Which we learn later he saved and gave to Ina. In Todd’s fantasy version, it is Todd who leaves Ina everything because Todd still wants to win over Rafi. Oh my goodness I loved this novel. So much more to write but my fingers are now going numb!

After reading two duds in a row, it was nice to find something intelligent. But, I think this was too intelligent for me. I know nothing about AI or computers so I was lost half the time. Also the oceanography information was way over my head. I still gave the story five stars, my ignorance is no excuse for downgrading a book. It took me forever to read, but I enjoyed the parts i understood. I spent a lot of time on Google and YouTube. It brought the area alive and made me feel apart of the story. I have spent a lot of time studying those tiny South Pacific countries so it was fun to see them mentioned. I have two of these other books on hold at the library comma I’ll have to see if I do better with those. He writes very well, just about stuff. I have trouble comprehending. .

Perfect.

You ever have one of those dreams where you're swimming underwater and suddenly realize you can breathe? That's what reading Richard Powers' "Playground" feels like—a breathtaking plunge into the depths of human experience, where the impossible becomes not just possible, but inevitable. A Masterful Confluence of Streams Powers, known for his Pulitzer Prize-winning "The Overstory" and the mind-bending "Bewilderment," has outdone himself with "Playground." It's a sweeping, ambitious novel that weaves together four seemingly disparate lives into a tapestry as vast and mysterious as the ocean itself. The Players in Powers' Grand Game • Evie Beaulieu: A 12-year-old girl who discovers a whole new world beneath the surface of a Montreal swimming pool in the 1950s. • Ina Aroita: An artist adrift, raised on naval bases across the Pacific, searching for a place to call home. • Rafi Young: A literature-loving, game-playing prodigy from Chicago's South Side. • Todd Keane: Rafi's unlikely friend and future tech mogul, whose AI breakthrough will change everything. These four lives converge on Makatea, a tiny atoll in French Polynesia with a tumultuous history and an uncertain future. As the island grapples with a proposal to become the launchpad for floating, autonomous cities, our protagonists find themselves at the center of a debate that could reshape humanity's relationship with the ocean—and each other. A Deep Dive into Powers' Prose Let's talk about Richard Powers' writing for a second, because... wow. The man has a way with words that'll make you want to dog-ear every other page (but don't, because that's book abuse, and we're better than that). His prose is at once lyrical and precise, painting vivid pictures of both the physical world and the inner landscapes of his characters. Take this gem, for example: "The ocean absorbed all her hope and excitement, all her panic and pain and love, into a place far larger than anything human." It's the kind of sentence that makes you pause, take a deep breath, and marvel at the sheer beauty of language. Themes as Vast as the Pacific "Playground" is a veritable buffet of big ideas, served up with Powers' trademark blend of scientific rigor and poetic insight. Some of the heavy hitters include: 1. The tension between technological progress and environmental preservation 2. The power of human connection across time and space 3. The role of games (both literal and metaphorical) in shaping our lives 4. The enduring mystery and allure of the ocean A Love Letter to the Sea Speaking of the ocean, it's practically a character in its own right. Powers' descriptions of marine life and underwater landscapes are nothing short of mesmerizing. You'll find yourself holding your breath along with Evie as she explores the hidden world beneath the waves. Characters That'll Haunt You (in a Good Way) One of Powers' greatest strengths is his ability to create characters that feel achingly real. Each of the four protagonists is a fully-realized individual, with hopes, fears, and quirks that'll stick with you long after you've turned the last page. • Evie's wide-eyed wonder at the underwater world is infectious. • Ina's struggle to find her place in the world resonates on a deeply human level. • Rafi's passion for literature and games is both endearing and tragic. • Todd's journey from awkward teen to tech visionary is a fascinating study in ambition and its costs. The Fifth Character: Makatea Don't forget about Makatea itself. This tiny island, with its complex history and uncertain future, serves as a microcosm for the larger themes of the novel. Powers brings it to life with such vivid detail that you can almost feel the salt spray on your face and hear the waves crashing against the cliffs. A Game of Epic Proportions The game of Go plays a central role in "Playground," serving as both a literal pastime for Rafi and Todd and a metaphor for the larger forces at play in the novel. Powers uses the game's strategy and philosophy to explore ideas of competition, cooperation, and the long-term consequences of our actions. AI: Friend or Foe? As Todd's AI breakthrough unfolds, Powers delves into questions that feel ripped from today's headlines: • What are the ethical implications of advanced AI? • Can machines truly understand human creativity and emotion? • How will AI shape the future of work, play, and human interaction? A Note on Structure and Pacing Fair warning: "Playground" is not a breezy beach read (although, ironically, it might make you want to head to the beach). Powers takes his time, building his world and characters with meticulous care. The narrative jumps between different time periods and perspectives, which can be disorienting at first. But stick with it—the payoff is worth it. The Slow Burn If you're looking for non-stop action, this might not be the book for you. "Playground" is more of a slow burn, gradually building tension and complexity until you find yourself completely immersed in Powers' world. It's the kind of book that rewards patience and close reading. Comparisons and Context "Playground" feels like a natural evolution of themes Powers has explored in his previous works: • The intersection of technology and nature from "The Overstory" • The exploration of consciousness and perception from "The Echo Maker" • The deep dive into scientific concepts from "Galatea 2.2" Fans of these earlier works will find plenty to love here, but "Playground" also stands on its own as a unique and powerful novel. If You Loved... If you enjoyed "Playground," you might also want to check out: • "The Bone Clocks" by David Mitchell • "New York 2140" by Kim Stanley Robinson • "The Ministry for the Future" by Kim Stanley Robinson • "Cloud Atlas" by David Mitchell The Verdict: A Must-Read for the Environmentally and Technologically Curious "Playground" is not an easy book, but it is a profoundly rewarding one. It's the kind of novel that changes the way you look at the world, making you more aware of the complex web of connections that bind us all together—to each other, to technology, and to the natural world. Is it perfect? No. The pacing can be slow at times, and some readers might find the scientific and philosophical digressions a bit much. But these are minor quibbles in the face of Powers' grand achievement. Who Should Read This Book? • Fans of literary fiction with a scientific bent • Anyone concerned about the future of our oceans and planet • Readers who enjoy grappling with big ideas and complex characters • Go players (you'll appreciate the game metaphors)

Richard Powers’s novel Playground was one of the best reviewed books of 2024. Similar to many contemporary novels, it does not have a linear story line, but follows several characters in alternating threads throughout the book. Rafi Young and Ina Aroita meet Todd Keane at the University of Illinois, and are the novel’s central characters. Scenes will shift to current times when Rafi and Ina live on Makatea in French Polynesia, and have children Hariti and Afa. Rafi is a gifted Black child from Chicago who attends Saint Ignatius College Prep before going to college where he meets Todd Keane. Current narrations from Todd, now a wealthy entrepreneur but suffering from the onset of dementia with Lewy Bodies, occur throughout the novel. (No spoilers because this is all known very early in the book.) The other principal character is Evelyne Beaulieu, a daughter of a fictional engineer who helped develop diving aqualung in the late 1940’s. She becomes an expert diver and author of a best selling book on oceans. As mentioned in the Acknowledgments, her character is inspired by Dr. Sylvia Earle, the first female head of the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and was Time Magazine’s first Hero of the Planet. (Makatea is an also an actual island that was heavily mined for phosphate rock.) The book clearly has a strong environmental theme, as well as those on technology and artificial intelligence. In fact, AI plays a crucial role in the overall novel. Other than some bumpy sections (some of the scenes with Rafi and Todd which I - and other readers - found trying), I thoroughly enjoyed the book. Two minor notes: I often listen to audiobooks but, for me, I liked reading this novel. There were enough terms that I wanted to check, and some developments that I wanted to read slowly to help ensure I didn’t miss something. Second, My brother-in-law attended the Chicago high school mentioned so it had some special meaning for me.

An astonishing novel! It had a bit of everything for me. Three lives that I could have lived. The Diver, The programmer, The Poet. Reminded me of the healing power of the ocean, which collectively we're destroying. Destroying ourselves in the process. I don't want to give too much away but very profound in many ways. One of my favourites on the 2024 booker longlist.

I love the richness of Richard Powers' descriptions the natural world and the way he creates his ensemble casts with gentleness and a caring eye. I previously enjoyed OVERSTORY and BEWILDERMENT, and this one was not a disappointment. Powers is an author who, it seems to me, continues to experiment with craft and structure with each novel, so it's always exciting to see what he does with his next one. This is a story about two men who meet as children and grow up together. Both are brilliant in their own ways. It's sort of like MY BRILLIANT FRIEND vibes, but boys in America. Their paths diverge after a significant falling out, and one goes on to be a tech billionaire while the other pursues a love of knowledge and art. Mixed up in all this is AI, and I won't say more about that, but how he uses it is veeerry interesting. Anyway, this was a great read. Definitely worth checking out. Full disclosure: I requested this on NetGalley, because I like to read the Booker longlist every year (and also because I always enjoy Richard Powers' books). Thanks to the publisher and NetGalley for the free ARC.

Astounding genius and artistry. As a non-fiction lover, environmental enthusiast, and artistically inspired soul this is everything I have been looking for. Now I'm off to devour everything else this human being has published.

This book was hella emotionally charged, and filled with tension - between two friends, between the natural world and "progress", between sets of twins/siblings, land vs ocean, a big yes/no referendum, fact and fiction, symbiosis and parasitism... I don't know how to explain this book to you. It's about a tech mogul behind a massively successful online platform. It's also about his (former) best friend and their complicated dynamic. And about an elderly woman from Montreal who was a famous diver/researcher (though I found the French, the audiobook accent, and the references to Montreal a bit too on the nose) and her love for the ocean. And it's about a small island community in the Pacific. And about the history of computing, passing through the genesis of internet and projecting through to the future of AI. And it's about redemption, legacy, immortality, guilt, and wishful thinking. The point of a finite game is to win it. But this is an infinite game - the point is to keep playing. I listened to this over the course of several months, at a very difficult time in my life full of transition, disillusionment, guilt, and a peculiar shift in senses of loneliness and connection. This book was a good companion for those months where I struggled to focus or read, for I too felt fragmented and like I was losing my mind. I'll be thinking about this one for a while. 4.5 stars rounded up.

Absolutely loved this, one of my favorite reads of 2025 so far. Wish it had been shortlisted for the international booker in 2023. The writing in this is phenomenal, so deftly and elegantly rendered. The first part was probably better for me as it used a bit more variety in form (like some stream of consciousness, or diary entries, etc), but the second part brilliantly portrayed life in the "great northern waste." So many beautiful turns of phrase - if you want a slow, reflective literary memoir on a man's experience through the Chinese cultural revolution, this is a revelation and speaks so much to human endurance and perseverance.

What a beautiful way to write about life. I'll definitely be revisiting this book in the future

one of the best memoirs about the cultural revolutiom

Tara is at a booksellers conference and auction on the 18 November, and she spends the day buying books, meeting up with an old friend and then settling down in her hotel room to call her husband whom she will travel back to see the following day. But she never gets to the following day. She wakes up again on the morning of 18 November. And again, and again, and again. This was an absolutely stunning book that I flew through and am obsessed with. Although it seems like your typical Groundhog Day plot, it tackles sadness and loneliness head on in that Tara has to explain her loop in time to her husband every morning and watch his memories vanish each time the day resets. We watch her experiment with the fracture in time as she wonders why some objects ‘stick’ and other objects are magically whisked back to their original place once the day starts over again. It has a very slight speculative feel to the plot but the musings on philosophy and isolation are absolutely beautiful. I can’t wait to read the second volume and I am just astounded at how excited I am to read about one woman living the same day over and over again. It is wonderfully constructed and characterised and I feel it is going to leave me heartbroken by the end of the saga. Cannot recommend this enough and hope it gets its deserved recognition on the International Booker Prize 2025.

It is such an accomplishment to make a novel about a woman living through the exact same day, 365 days in a row, feel this intensely gripping and enthralling. Read this in one sitting—the language is so simple and clear and lovely, simultaneously unelaborated and very beautiful. There are also some very touching depictions of love and companionship, years into a marriage, which feels rare! So much out there about young love, and much less about the love that develops and sediments itself into the soul.

The Waterstones bookseller told me he wasn't sure about this book because he doesn't know just how many volumes it's going to have, but he made sure to tell me after I paid, so I have to respect his game. This is a time loop story unlike any I've read, but could also be an incredible metaphor for the loneliness of depression, or the ending of a relationship that's stuck in a rut.

so i've taken a day to formulate thoughts about this book, and i really want to preface by saying that you should read this book for yourself. it's a breath of fresh air and a reminder of humanity and our existence within this world. balle's prose is stunning, it's simple but so effective in conveying the repetition in tara's days. at it's core, this is a book about love and our place in the universe, how much space we take up. for such a tiny book, it's packed with emotion. this is easily one of the most beautiful books i've read in a long time, it's unique, effective, and gorgeous. you must read it.

Longlisted for the International Booker Prize 2025 Tarantino's "Reservoir Dogs" was indeed released as "Perros de reserva" in Mexico, and Dahlia de la Cerda's original Spanish version of the novel is thus called "Perras de reserva" - and it's not only the title that connects the young author and the infamous screenwriter / director: Both shine when it comes to crafting punchy lines, memorable scenes and characters so sharp they border on elevated, uncanny caricatures of slightly twisted tropes, and both are concerned with rage and revenge. De la Cerda was inspired to write thirteen stories about violence against women in Mexico after a femicide in her family. The women we encounter in her stories have always lived with violence as a given, many of them take actual revenge or do it by telling their stories even from beyond the grave (mind you, in ancient cultures, the number 13 represented femininity, because it corresponded to the number of lunar (menstrual) cycles in a year, but the lunar calendar was of course more or less abolished by the solar calendar). The protagonists fight against a system that declares them to be disposable. Every story focuses on a different woman who unapologetically tells her story from her own point of view, and while some texts stand alone, others interlock and offer different perspectives on the same incidents. The collection starts out with a story about a woman living in precarious circumstances who has an at home abortion after a one night stand, and it gives all the details of this reality (the author co-founded Morras Help Morras to fight for safe at home abortions). We hear about a devout Catholic woman who is married off and abused by her husband before falling in love with a priest and developing severe mental issues, and from a 13-year-old mother who is abandoned by the baby daddy. Then there's a text about a young, Black factory worker who is kidnapped, gang-raped, tortured and left to die, and the story of a trans sex worker killed in the streets as well as one about the impact of superstition. Then there's the multi-perspective story of Yuliana, the daughter of a cartel boss who is pronounced heiress of his empire - we also hear from her friend Regina, daughter of an influential politician, who is murdered by her cartel boyfriend, and Yuliana's bodyguard La China, a sicaria who takes revenge on Regina's killer, while Regina's sister Constanza gets a chapter being busy climbing the social ranks. We hear from women killing a burglar in self-defense, and also get a story from the perspective of the destitute woman who committed the burglary. In the last, particularly impactful and longest chapter, a woman mourns her friend who was killed after a party, adding a poetic elegy for all women killed in Mexico. I liked the truly Tarantino-esque vibe of this collection, the way female rage is portrayed as a powerful tool in the face of injustice, the edgy female characters and how literature is employed as a weapon. Mexico really has some powerful female literary voices, and Dahlia de la Cerda is easily up there with Selva Almada and Fernanda Melchor. You can listen to the podcast gang discussing the German translation, also titled Reservoir Bitches, here: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

Twelve short stories by Dahlia de la Cerda about violence against women in Mexico. This is a high impact read, the material is violent, and disturbing. Themes here include gpaphic violence, poverty, women without power, narcotics crime, drug use, alcohol, toxic masculinity, and social media addiction. One thing is clear, when you read this, you will know what the term “Disposable Women” means. She was stabbed in the genitals. Have you ever heard of a man’s nipples being bitten before he is murdered? Or a man being stabbed in the penis? Getting a stick shoved up his ass? Because I haven’t The language used by the author here is street talk, it’s gritty and is how you would expect it to be, if listening to these narrators. These stories will shock you. This is important reading and perhaps it needs to be part of essential reading for adolescent boys in high school? Because it’s clear – the number of deaths each year due to violence against women, is not decreasing. They enjoyed watching me cry and beg. It was in their eyes, in their grunts of pleasure. Freaking assholes, pieces of shit, motherfuckers The first time he hit me, we were on our way out of a club. He was furious, and I never figured out why. He smacked me hard across the face and didn’t drive me home Ten women a day are murdered due to gender-based violence in Mexico. Dahlia de la Cerda (born 1985) is a Mexican writer and activist. In 2025, her book, Reservoir Bitches, was longlisted for the International Booker Prize. 5 Stars

See my updates as I worked through this collection of stories centered on the female experience in Mexico. The stories range from feminine rage, feral girls running wild, the girlfriends of narcos, sex workers, victims of violence—femicide Themes: girlhood, motherhood, marriage, sex work, abortion, poverty, murder, SA, trauma, female friendships, etc A rollercoaster of emotions. More soon.

this was phenomenal. i can barley put it into words how much i loved this book. highly recommend. this will leave you feeling raw and gutted, as it should. the writing was spectacular and captivating. could barley put this down

WOW! From its opening pages, this debut collection delivers such an emotional punch. Thirteen interlinked stories and each narrative whether it centers on the pampered daughter of a cartel boss, a politicians wife faking indigenous roots, or a pregnant thirteen year old enduring grueling factory shifts is so unforgettable!! A common theme through out is the omnipresence of machismo, which effects these women of all classes and backgrounds. There are elements of religion, superstition, and indigenous spiritual practices, capturing the ways our storytellers (women and girls) survive, or try their hardest to, in a system against them. Some of the most haunting stories are narrated by the ghosts of women, including an Afro-Mexican woman who turns into a “vampire”after their death. These voices are raw, and painfully honest. The brutal reality of femicide in Mexico was something I was not aware of and makes these stories so much more impactful. Despite the themes throughout these stories there’s undeniable beauty and strength in the writing. Dahlia De la Cerda’s vision is so bold and in your face, yet her prose are so poetic. There is humor and emotional resonance particularly in moments when the characters’ spirits find release. At times I had to stop reading and just take in the all the narrative power the author was able to convey. Reservoir Bitches is just under 200 pages but it’s a book I will return to over and over again through out my life. Even if you typically shy away from stories like this I encourage you to read this! It makes me sad, it makes me nostalgic, it at times made me proud. Truly an unforgettable read.

Amazing. Thrilling. Heartbreaking. Enraging. "I came looking for live music to dance to but, just my luck, what I found instead was this brutal desert that devours women. Carves them up, disappears them, swallows them whole".

Collection of short stories focused on the experiences of young women in Mexico. It's a mixture of funny, lively, partyyy 💅, and a stark reminder of Mexico's v high rate of femicide. For me, the tone shift worked great. Great translation re youth slang too, kinda reminded me of The Emperor's Babe

Enigmatic and mind-bending.

“Contemporary art doesn’t offer us finished works, but only inconclusive ones for the viewer to complete in his or her imagination. This exhibition of unfinished works...actually described the way we look at art now, when the works themselves aren’t enough and we, the viewers, need a space, a fissure, a crack in order to complete them.” “We’re siblings, and yet my words will always be a kind of metaphysical phenomenon that she can never fully understand. And vice versa. It doesn’t matter how many years pass, or how dearly we love each other, we are permanently confined to our respective selves. That’s true for us, and we’re siblings....” “We come into this world in order to repeat what those who came before us also repeated. There have been supposedly significant technical advances, but as regards our human nature, we remain unchanged, with exactly the same defects and problems. We unwittingly imitate what those who preceded us tried to do. These add up to mere attempts with very few successes, which, when they do occur, are always second-rate. Every ten or fifteen years people speak of new generations, but when you analyze those generations, which, on the face of it, do appear to be different, you see instead that they merely repeated, like a mantra, how urgent and vital it is to overturn the previous generation and, just to be safe, the one before the previous one, which, in its time, tried to erase the one before that. Oddly, though, no generation wants to position itself on the margins of that Great Path, but, rather, on the firm ground occupied by the previous generation. They must think there’s nothing else beyond that firm ground, and this belief ultimately leads them to follow in the footsteps of those they started out despising. And so it goes on, not a single generation has placed itself on the margins or has said, almost as one voice: we don’t like this, you can keep it.” “You can imitate a voice, or repeat what a voice has said, and in that way prevent it from disappearing altogether, but it will no longer be the voice, nor will it say exactly what that voice said. Repetitions, versions, perversions, interpretations of what the extinguished voice said will inevitably produce distortions. Voices are the building blocks of literature, which, for me, is a way of keeping alive the flame of tales told around the fire since the dawn of time: a way of turning around the impossibility of accessing something that is lost by at least reconstructing it, even when we know that it doesn’t exist and that the best we can hope for is an imitation.” “I try out different paths each day, always eager to know more, always hoping to find out what I would write if I wrote: each day stitching together my imaginary world, weaving a structure that I may or may not finish; each day building a repertoire that I sense will be as finite and perpetual as any family lexicon: a diary on which I could work for a long time, making tiny changes to every passage, every sentence, repeating the whole thing in so many thousands of different ways that I would eventually exhaust my repertoire and find myself gazing out at the limits of the never-before-said or, rather, at the gates of the unsayable.” “I could feel an argument brewing and did nothing to avoid it. Indeed, I said that if we were about to have an argument, would she mind if I took notes, so that I could write it up later and ponder what had happened?”

I almost didn't read this because of the poor reviews I had read on Goodreads! I sat to read one chapter and was carried into a story--discussion--that carried me to the end. Enrique knows how to write. There is little tangible descriptions and the dialogue is sparse. This book is an enjoyable meditation on literature and how it invades or influences our own reality. It is playful and thoughtful. But if you are looking for a plot you will be greatly disappointed.

That problem being that his life might be a novel he is writing, or rewriting, after having botched it. EV-M is a man of dangerous intellectual insight, softened only by his rueful sense of humor.

“Love is, perhaps, the sensation of expertise that erupts out of nowhere, and as time goes on accumulates enough soil at its feet to be standing on something.” I had the unique experience of finishing Flashlight the day that it was announced it had made the Booker Longlist ! The book starts with a memory—Louisa is ten and walking with her father along the breakshore in Japan. Hours later she is discovered soaking wet and alone. Her father is nowhere to be found. It’s clear that Louisa’s memory is distorted, but the damage is equally obvious. From there, the novel steps back. We examine the family from the beginning: who they were as individuals, who they were together, and who they are, after this event. Though the mystery of what happened to Louisa’s father (Serk) is at the core of this novel, it is not the central takeaway. It isn’t a thriller, you don’t burn through the pages, and it is, in fact, quite dense. I was often challenged by this entirely impressive novel. The scope of it blew me away. I don’t even know how one begins to craft a story like this! If you are hoping to sneak in one last really, truly great novel this summer… Might I suggest starting with this one?

5⭐️ I could not put down this big beautiful expansive story! Filled with emotion, love, grief, and family drama, the gorgeous prose grabbed me from the first pages. Told from alternating POV chapters of Louisa, her Korean Japanese father, Serk, and her American mother Anne. Multi timelines add to the dramatic telling of a tragic and engrossing tale that leads to the tearful ending. The main characters of Louisa, Serk, and Anne are flawed and unlikable at times but I fell in love with each of them in the telling of their stories. Anne’s older son Tobias is also equally flawed but has a quirky likeability. Lots of post WWII history in Korea and Japan adds the backdrop to an intriguing, mysterious, tale that is gripping as well as satisfying. Issues of immigration, ethnicity, culture, belonging, parenting, and forgiveness are prominent in the unfolding drama. There is a big twist well into the story that surprised me and kept me on the edge of my seat. I highly recommend this book! Thanks to NetGalley and Farrar, Straus, & Giroux publishing for the ARC In exchange for my honest review.

a legitimate masterpiece. i want to read it all over again.

A favorite of this year, it's easy to see why this is on so many awards lists. Although it starts as a slow burn, it picks up and gathers speed as it continues. Spanning decades, the story spools out unrelentingly, with complicated characters and twists in plot unforeseen.

Flashlight was so many things, a complex story of a multi cultural family, of the relinquishment of a child, of 4 people whose lives came together then split apart and who we continue to observe, often decades later. Not everything that happens forms part of the plot. We fill that in ourselves, creating connections as the narrative leap frogs forward from one character to the next. It explores the effect on each person in the family of their cultural past, their birth circumstance, the moves they make that shift perceptions of who they are. It exposes the cruelities of nations, abuses of humankind, the determination of those who seek the truth, the perseverance of those who want to bring justice and the importance of closure, of being present even when someone seems beyond comprehension. Wow, what an effort to bring all that together and create a novel that traverses so many elements of the cross cultural family, the immigrant life, the (false) allure of the return, lost family members and the dangers of trying to find them. This was such an eye opening, thought provoking read that almost felt like two novels, The first half relatively straight forward, the second half mysterious, disconcerting and dangerous.

‘Flashlight’ by Susan Choi is an unusual book in that the main characters are unlikeable yet the novel itself is an operatic masterpiece of writing, research and history. The title is apt in following the lives of the members of a mixed-race family, each sharply illuminated in a narrow cone of bright light whenever the narration switches from one family member’s point of view to another’s. However, the timeline as lived by each family member is a chaotic one, moving from the present of the late 1940’s to the present of 2011, from Japan to the United States back to Japan and North Korea. The timeline is one which is tumbling around in each chapter, illuminating the present, then the past, then the parallel paths of each family member, none knowing what the other is doing due to intentional avoidance of the others except when necessary to get in touch. I wouldn’t say they communicate much, either. None of them appear to have much curiosity about anything. Trying to fit in without looking as if they are panicking about not fitting in appears to be the main motivation of all of the main characters, except one. There are four main family members. Hiroshi (Japanese name)/Seok (Korean and given name at birth)/Serk (American name) Kang, a college academic born in Japan but ethnically Korean, and Anne, once a secretary and later a housewife, born in America, marry and become the parents of Louisa, American-born. Tobias is Louisa’s half-brother, whom Anne had given up to be raised by Tobias’s American father and wife before she met Serk. Except for cheerful Tobias, who is a wannabe Japanese Buddhist monk with a heavy focus on self-effacement and abasement, Serk, Anne and Louisa are spiky characters, never satisfied with each other, expressing very little empathy, especially Louisa, who absolutely hates her mother for many reasons. All of Louisa’s hatreds for her mother Anne, as far as I can see, are from a lack of empathy and maybe some racial jealousy of her mother’s white race and beauty. Anne is blond and blue-eyed, unlike the mixed race Louisa. Serk is a person with much anxieties. None have what anyone would call a sense of humor or fun. As children all felt they were in the wrong body, either living in families at odds culturally with the countries they grow up in, unaccepted by the dominant culture if they looked different, or in families that didn’t particularly notice or care for them, leaving the child to feel unaccepted, even unwanted, which can happen in American families and other cultures. The book, through flashbacks, follows the childhoods of each character. Readers can soon see there are some good reasons for each member of the family to be unable to bond to each other. (view spoiler) When Louisa was nine years old, Serk moved the three of them to Japan for a temporary teaching position at a Japanese college. At first Louisa was frustrated by her lack of knowledge of the Japanese language, but she was soon speaking Japanese well after a year. Louisa had hoped her darker skin and hair, a lot darker than Anne’s, would allow her to fit in, but she discovered her hair was not as dark as that of the Japanese people. She did not look Japanese or Korean enough. Serk, of course, spoke flawless Japanese. Anne spoke no Japanese, and she soon became afflicted with some sort of physical disability. Japanese doctors, as well as her husband and child, thought it was mental illness. Louisa scorned Anne for her lack of any knowledge of Japanese culture, but especially hated her for seemingly faking a physical illness. Things were very unsettled for all three of them, but they had hopes of fitting in eventually. Except a mysterious disaster occurred which upended their already shaky foundations. I have copied the book blurb: ”A novel tracing a father’s disappearance across time, nations, and memory, from the author of Trust Exercise. One summer night, Louisa and her father take a walk on the breakwater. Her father is carrying a flashlight. He cannot swim. Later, Louisa is found on the beach, soaked to the skin, barely alive. Her father is gone. She is ten years old. Louisa is an only child of parents who have severed themselves from the past. Her father, Serk, is Korean, but was born and raised in Japan; he lost touch with his family when they bought into the promises of postwar Pyongyang and relocated to North Korea. Her American mother, Anne, is estranged from her Midwestern family after a reckless adventure in her youth. And then there is Tobias, Anne’s illegitimate son, whose reappearance in their lives will have astonishing consequences. But now it is just Anne and Louisa, Louisa and Anne, adrift and facing the challenges of ordinary life in the wake of great loss. United, separated, and also repelled by their mutual grief, they attempt to move on. But they cannot escape the echoes of that night. What really happened to Louisa’s father? Shifting perspectives across time and character and turning back again and again to that night by the sea, Flashlight chases the shock waves of one family’s catastrophe, even as they are swept up in the invisible currents of history. A monumental new novel from the National Book Award winner Susan Choi, Flashlight spans decades and continents in a spellbinding, heartgripping investigation of family, loss, memory, and the ways in which we are shaped by what we cannot see.” The book blurb is right on! The novel is astonishingly multi-layered, shining a fascinating light on a family of individualistic travelers, unable to settle down in their own skins much less a culture. Each in their own ways are stateless residents in their countries of birth. Each of them live a life of quiet inner desperation (except Tobias, a fool in any culture) in their attempts to find and fit into an identity, yet each of them so damn prickly and judgemental of others, it is obvious they could only fail at connecting. They are not broken people, though. They are people who can’t find acceptance in the being of themselves for themselves, full stop, and they are looking at everybody else with an unhealthy outlook of suspicion, paranoia and criticism. But, similar to what happened to the American Native children in the 19th and 20th centuries, the children of Japanese Koreans in Japan, for instance, were told they needed to fit in with the dominant culture, but if in having made an effort to do so, were estranged from their families and were still not at all accepted in the dominant culture. This situation is currently happening in China with Uyghur Muslims. I’ve read it happened to people from India who moved to England and raised several generations of culturally English children born in England. And on and on. However, there certainly are even more terrible governments who are intent on forcing what is an impossible and insane monoculture on others of different cultures and beliefs….(read the novel 1984 for how terrible a government can get. Or read up on the Soviet Union government of the past. Or of the current North Korean government.) I think these are some of the themes, gentler reader. Please post alternative opinions in the comments below. This is not just a well-written novel, it is a grand opera of national histories, culture and politics affecting personal relationships and personalities. Although the social characteristics and expectations of the three governing nations involved in the book are seemingly only backdrops of the stages on which the family performs, society and governance policies have devastating affects on the four ordinary, basically non-political, people. I could not put the book down for three days, reading every chance I could get. Despite that I couldn’t like any of these characters, I really had to know what was going to happen next. The writing has the driving energy of a thriller, even though the story is often only about a family becoming dysfunctional and drifting apart. The mystery of the disappearance of Serk is one I solved right away, though, having read of the real-life and truly bizarre situation in newspapers some decades ago. (view spoiler) Although the novel is a high-end literary read, and on the shortlist for the Booker Prize, I highly recommend this thought-provoking novel about family, identity and generational dysfunction from what I believe to be primarily external governance causes.

Blown away by this one. Shortlisted for the 2025 Bookers and Pulitzer buzz is well deserved. Multi-layered, incredibly and impeccably researched, and character driven. I can appreciate that many reviewers didn’t love the characters, however, I became more sympathetic towards them while reading about their traumas and it rationalized (to me) their respective responses. Very interesting and ambitious book and the vast geographical references made this so much more enjoyable. History of North Korea was interesting to me and Choi has really honed in on the politics. I’m short on time and won’t do this review justice, but an impressive piece of work!

This book was a slow burn. At times I was a bit bored and it felt very long despite being just 466 pages. I felt I’d heard enough about this odd little family of misfits. And then suddenly things shifted when Louisa - the daughter of an expatriated Korean born in Japan who moves to the US and an American mother - heads to London. Things get a bit dark and the action speeds up. Then a mystery from Louisa’s childhood also begins to emerge under new light. It’s hard to say much more without spoilers. I’ve liked a number of books that feature the complicated relationship between Korea and Japan… This book exceeds all the others. I always learn something new that I didn’t know - well my history knowledge is generally weak, admittedly, so it’s easy for me to learn things about this part of the world. This is the second book I’ve read with a reference to the Korean island Jeju. I think I’m meant to travel there. It intrigues me.

4.5 rounded up although I understand some of the criticism that Choi overwrites at times I did not find that this occurred too often. for the most part. I found this an incredibly compelling and engrossing family saga, mystery, beautifully written literary fiction. one of the best novels of the year.

I love a chunky saga, and Flashlight delivered on this front. It’s a big beast of a novel, a family tragedy and a study of its ripple effects, an examination of the weaknesses of human memory, and a historical novel all swept into one. There’s lots of interesting storytelling here about connection and isolation, and lovely extended metaphor about the flashlight. It is a story that reminds us that in any moment or experience we only part of what is happening is ever illuminated for us. Having struggled to get on with Choi’s previous novel I found this an absolute treat, and think in circumstances where I could have given more of my attention to this, it could easily have been a five star read.

Thank you fsgbooks for the gifted arc I kept holding off on reading Flashlight after seeing some call it dense or slow. After not being able to put it down this weekend I can say it was anything but. I won't go over too much plot since I feel that gives some things away and also you'll hear about it multiple times now that it was, deservedly, Booker longlisted. All I’ll say is that Choi shows us how the geopolitical and personal are intrinsically linked through the lives of one family over three countries. At first this book is disorienting as Choi throws you into the aftermath of the ‘mystery’. We have a limited perspective (definitely a theme) and don’t know why certain things are being said or thought or what’s real or not. Then Choi abruptly takes us back decades, maybe not to THE beginning but a beginning, and through the decades after. Choi will literally time jump years in the middle of a sentence! This is the kind of novel where we are sometimes ahead of the characters, or at least are able to see what they can’t, and at other times things are kept from us completely. It's frustratingly lifelike - how often do you have a complete picture of someone you know, or I would argue even yourself? We all censor ourselves in a way. Sometimes you don't know what you remember or the meaning of a moment until someone else brings it up or there are moments in time you just skip while obsessing over others to the minutest detail. This is not confined to just memory, but language and in turn the history we are taught, or not. The feeling of not belonging is experienced by every character but they are blind to each other’s plights. Sure language barriers and ethnicity play a role here, but I thought the concepts of what ties you to a ‘homeland’ and what it’s like to essentially be stateless were pretty current in today’s news. I thought this was reflected through the unknown half-brother, what do you owe someone that you only have a blood-tie too? It’s fascinating how most of these characters are quite frankly annoying at the best of times, straight up terrible at worst of times. Louisa is going to frustrate the hell out of you BUT I will say that Choi gives us enough about each character to, mostly, understand them. My heart really went out for Anne and Louisa- as a child Louisa doesn’t understand what’s happening with her mom’s body and loses a sense of stability or safety. Add to that a move to another country, one where you may just fit in if it wasn’t for you mom, well I can see how that would warp your love and relationship. Louisa unfortunately holds on to this for most of her life. Girl, LET IT GO!

A heart-wrenching beautiful story about grief, loss, and family dynamics. The book explains dynamics between families and nations with various family secrets slowly being revealed throughout the novel. This book has multiple POVs allowing us to see and hear information from all of the main characters. I absolutely loved this book, while it carries some deeper material it is such an incredibly written novel. A great character-driven book that really allows you to dive in and think.

2025 Booker Prize Longlist 12/13 2026 Women's Prize for Fiction Shortlist 2/6 A unique family saga that I wasn't expecting to like as much as I do. The only reason I picked this up was because of it's inclusion in the Booker Longlist, and reports of it's being too long and overly circuitous are absolutely right, but whatever mood I find myself in these days, probably because I have eliminated the conveyor belt of ARCs from my life, this turns out to be the type of book I used to love, pre GR, pre podcasts, when it was only me and my own devices that selected my reading matter. With it's over and back between the US and Japan (and Korea), it constantly reminded me of Ruth Ozeki's "A Tale for the Time being", but parts of it also recalled the things I learned about North Korea in "The Girl with Seven Names" and Korean/Japanese relations in "Pachinko". I think that busy me of the netgalley deadlines that faced off with the library book stacks would have resented the seemingly unnecessary places the author brought me to, but I feel richly rewarded for having experienced the random sprawl of the various trajectories of this complex family. There are very difficult passages in this book. There are acts of violence and war crimes and references to normalisation of dehumanisation, not only in the obvious places, but also in more familiar settings too, and every single character has something to despise about them, be it grumpiness, selfishness, brattiness or just plain annoying, and that's not even counting the "baddies", and yet despite their shortcomings, despite the author's refusal to manipulate the reader's emotional response, it's impossible to ignore the humanity of these characters and to feel deeply for them. It also highlights the difficulties of negotiating diplomacy between cultures and nations whose histories are so layered in complexities that any move will invariably be the wrong move.

My my my. This is a saga of a book that’s structure is also its title: Choi gives us a family saga and historical fiction and generational trauma in from multiple perspectives, but she only gives us what’s immediately in front of the “light” in the moment. There is SO much that we don’t get in this story, much like what we can’t see in the dark beyond a flashlight bulb. This is also a hefty novel, with lots of moving pieces covering decades in the US, Japan, Korea, China and Europe. There are a wide range of characters, all of whom have deep and secretive histories: Anne, a white woman from the Midwest who has a baby who was given up for “adoption” to the father of the child who then marries Serk, a Korean born in Japan who has come to the US to teach, cutting off all ties and connections to his family. They have Louisa, a bright but seemingly troubled kid who worships her dad and seems to have little time for her mom. The book opens with us learning that Serk and Louisa went for a walk on the shore of a small Japanese town where they were living as Serk was teaching at a local university, and Louisa is found nearly drowned with a flashlight but Serk is never found. We learn of their lives before the incident, as well as the many decades of the aftermath. Choi writes in such an accessible yet visceral way, that I was compelled to keep going in this book despite not loving all the characters. It felt like the longer we spent with each person, and the more we learned, the more we were able to piece together enough of the picture to understand and empathize with the characters in a way that I would not have guessed I could at the beginning of the book. Really fantastic book I’ll be thinking about for a while.

[Copy provided by publisher] READ IF YOU LIKE... • Dense and demanding prose • Struggling to find your place in the world • Little known aspects of East Asian history I THOUGHT IT WAS... A formidable piece of literary fiction that's beautifully rewarding for those who stick with it. In Japan, ten-year-old Louisa goes for walk at dusk along the beach with her father. Later, Louisa is found washed up on shore. Her father is nowhere to be seen. This pivotal event frames the lives of this sundered family as we attempt to piece together what happened. This is peak Literary Fiction. Long, complex, meandering sentences convey almost every thought, forcing you to read slowly and methodically. But if you don't mind this type of prose, or you persevere through it, you'll discover that Choi has artfully spun a solemn and human story about the search for belonging, wrapped within the political turmoil of Japan, North Korea, South Korea, and China. Louisa's father, Serk, is a Korean born in Japan, who took pride in his supposed Japanese identity before Korea was liberated from Japan. This sudden rift in racial identity creates a dissonance jarring enough to affect all the members of his future family. Indeed, almost every character is ill at ease with themselves, and Choi masterfully depicts this in a variety of ways. Though Choi's writing is anything but straightforward, its richness rewards you with a story that uncovers a lesser known corner of East Asian history, the soul of which lies with a broken family where a mother and father try to do everything possible to protect their only daughter.

Set around 2500 BCE, Circle of Days explores the mysterious story of Stonehenge. Seft comes from a family of flint miners. The work is grueling and his father is harsh. When Seft meets Neen, a girl from a family of herders, he notices something different within her family - love and kindness. When the farmers secretly take over land traditionally used for herding animals, Neen’s mother fears the outrage could spark a war between the two communities. Though she has never experienced war herself, she remembers the stories her parents told about a past conflict between the herders and the woodlanders. Joia, Neen’s younger sister, is fascinated by the priestesses who guard the secrets of the sky. When the High Priestess teaches her a new way of counting - using discs instead of body parts - Joia becomes deeply intrigued and begins to understand her true calling. At this time, the Great Plain is divided among three tribes: herders, farmers, and woodlanders. Mistrust among them is growing and acts of savage violence threaten to escalate the conflict. A devastating drought forces even the most generous to reconsider their willingness to share. Survival becomes the driving force. When a wooden monument dedicated to the priestesses is destroyed, the High Priestess orders it rebuilt in stone. The necessary heavy stones lie far away, and fifteen of them are needed. Transporting them could take years. Yet, as heavy and impossible as the task may seem, one person is driven by greater force – a vision of the stone monument rising. The bloodshed, the loss, the arguments, and the violence all fuel the determination to bring it to life and to bring peace. The story of Pia and Han – two young people from different tribes – unfolds during a time when inter-tribal relationships are forbidden. Despite the rules, they find a way to be together. The forbidden love and the suspenseful search that follows add twists that keep readers on edge. The detailed depiction of how the stones are transported, and how the monument is built stone by stone, makes Circle of Days a captivating read. With its intriguing elements of ancient history, the story feels remarkably authentic to its time period. It’s an absorbing novel that turns pages quickly. Ken Follett is a master storyteller; with fascinating characters he weaves a mesmerizing tale rooted in the mysteries of the past - authentic, engaging, and utterly captivating. Review originally posted at mysteryandsuspense.com Source: ARC was provided by the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.

No one makes me want to read 700 pages in one sitting quite like Ken Follett. When I found out this book was about Stonehenge I was even MORE excited. I have always loved imagining the lives of people throughout history and the challenges they likely faced. With Follett’s rich cast of characters and vivid historical setting we can find comfort in knowing that while technology may have changed, the tenacity and indomitability of the human spirit likely has not. I laughed, I cried, I celebrated with these characters. And while they are fictional, I feel the author has captured the truth in the strength of character that has echoed through time, and is evidenced in Stonehenge itself. As always, thank you Ken Follett for writing this book, and thank you Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley for sending me a copy of this ARC. It was a treat to be able to read this early.

If you're a fan of Ken Follett's cathedral building novels, I think this new one about the building of Stonehenge will be right up your alley. I feel like all of the Ken Follett builder novels have a distinct "humble craftsman achieves great feat of engineering through grit, intelligence and support from his beautiful + intelligent love interest." This novel features our usual humble craftsman, but I really like how in this novel, Ken Follett elevated a woman's POV more by having a Priestess character work right alongside our humble craftsman to mastermind the construction of Stonehenge. They were equals, and she wasn't a love interest. The story is also more modern in that it features some LGBTQIA+ characters, and in the current political climate, I think seeing this sort of representation is more important than ever. All in all, a great historical fiction beach read!

Circle of Days is an enjoyable interpretation of what society could’ve been like during the creation of Stonehenge. The characters are enjoyable and Follett is not afraid I kill characters so no one is safe. Not usually a historical fiction fan but I thought this was great.

When I heard Mr Follet was writing a book about Stonehenge and Dan Brown was writing a book about Prague I had to take a step back and say “is this f**king play about me.” I must say the divas are definitely back in town. After receiving an ARC of Follets book from my darling baby girl Angel Allya, I had to read it ASAP. The story follows Follett’s usual squabble of characters with odd names, the good fighting against the evil, the classic story. But if it ain’t broke don’t fix it. Setting a story in 2500 BCE is an interesting and harsh task and it is jarring how most of the characters had quite a 21st century ideology yet couldn’t count. Yes, there might be some historical inaccuracies and confusion but I DON’T CARE. He serves me narrative like a kebab shop serves me a snack pack - exactly how I want it. We follow the different tribes across the Great Plains, and how one tribe builds the miracle of Stonehenge. What I liked about Pillars of the Earth was his detail in explaining the building of a church and with Circle of Days he goes into a perfect amount of detail into describing how difficult it would have been moving these giant stones (mind you the idea of the wheel hadn’t even come to the plains). This book is a pour one out for all the history divas and archaeologist wannabes! 5/5 stars Tysm Hachette for ARC 😃

No one writes a bad guy like Ken Follett! This was a great book to read during these difficult days as it reminded me that if we could survive the middle ages, we can likely get through a few more years. My goodness! Life back then was brutal! And yet, Follett also writes love (of family, friends, clan) and passion with fine brushes, lovely little details. He engages in big sweeps of an epoch, yet also the fine details of daily life. His details about the making of Stonehedge construction but also just daily life are marvelous! There are a few Really Bad Bullies in Circle of Days. Parts of the book were actually a little hard to read- I mainly listened to the audiobook and turned these up to 1.5 speed. But overall, there is much hope and joy and fortitude. Great audiobook, performed by Richard Armitage... goes on my list of great narrators to follow.

Circle of Days by Ken Follett is the first fiction I've read about the history of Stonehenge. Follett has written a fast-paced, wonderful story. "The farmers, the herders and the woodland people all live separately with their own rules and customs. They all come together during certain times of the year at the Monument where the priestesses lead them in ceremonies welcoming the coming of the different seasons. Conflict arises - because people always want more. The monument is damaged but one priestess believes it should be rebuilt in stone so no one can ever burn it again. It's up to her to find the people to build it." This is a 700 page book but reads much quicker than that. Follett has filled the story with great characters - some you like and some you despise. You never know who will make it. Follett has never been shy about killing characters and the bullies sometimes win. Follett's approach to moving the stones was interesting and the explanations for the different equinoxes. The world and society he imagines is remarkable. If you loved Pillars you'll love this story. It was great to read historical fiction that was about a place that's not written about very much. Great story from Follett. Going to be one of my top reads this year.

This tense and immersive psychological drama is an insightful exploration of a mother and daughter relationship. Johanna is a recently widowed artist, back in her native Oslo, after a long absence in the US, for a retrospective of her work. The subject of that work has been motherhood and some of her more controversial paintings have caused a rift between herself and her family, especially her mother. As the years have gone by her preoccupation with the rift has only grown and become an obsession. She attempts to reconnect with her family but is harshly rebuffed, leading her to more and more extreme measures to see her mother and talk about her childhood, desperately searching for answers. To be inside Johanna’s head is a jarring experience as her behaviour becomes more and more unhinged and yet we can empathise with her desperation. I found the book a real page-turner, even if a disturbing and troubling one. The author is even-handed in her approach to the toxic relationship and even though Johanna is the narrator, so we see everything from her point of view, we still appreciate the mother’s and sister’s anguish, which is equally valid. An excellent read.

An absolutely brilliant and wild ride of a novel. A heightened stream of internal monologuing from an upper middle aged daughter as she reckons with her childhood, her decisions, her mother’s decisions, and how to live with the abyss that now lies between mother and daughter. Is Mother Dead is a deeply nuanced look at motherhood, childhood, and how those two states of being are interminably intertwined. Through the main character Johanna, Hjorth shows how powerful the mind is at inventing, repressing, and revising other people and our past to fit the narratives we tell ourselves. There is much truth to be found here and I was reminded a bit of Ferrante’s ‘The Lost Daughter’ in the way such truths are explicitly stated and without taboo. A stellar read that I wish wasn’t a library book because I need to keep it forever !! This is my IB winner 💗💗

"We all share the human condition. We are all lost in an existence with no obvious meaning or purpose; however hard we try, we will never escape the uncertainty, the looming dangers, illness that will come, the losses and griefs that await us, the lost child, sibling, the past that suddenly comes back and knocks on our door." Is Mother Dead (written in Norwegian by Vigdis Hjorth and translated into English by Charlotte Barslund) follows the narration of Johanna, a successful painter in her sixties who is back in Oslo and decided to call her estranged mother. 30 years ago, Johanna made a major decision by leaving her family and husband (Thorleif) for her lover, Mark (her art teacher), and pursued her career as an artist in the US. She was known for her 2 paintings entitled "Child and Mother 1" and "Child and Mother 2" which depicted an estranged relationship between Johanna and her mother. Her family did not take this lightly as they felt humiliated and decided to cut ties with her. Further, she did not attend her father's funeral when her father passed away, which caused the estrangement between Johanna and her mother as well as her sister, Ruth. 30 years later, Johanna attempted to reconcile with her mother, with the intention of seeking answers to several questions buried deep in her memories. Her journey of reconciliation with her mother ultimately converted into an uneasy and obsessed stalking of her mother's life, with her past memories regarding her relationship with her mother and her observations between the dynamics of her mother and father haunting her. This is the second book from the longlist of the 2023 International Booker Prize which explores the theme of motherhood and the love-hate mother-daughter relationship. Written in a first-person voice and with short chapters (the shortest being just one sentence in a chapter), Hjorth played with time and memory very effectively as the chapters fluently alternate between Johanna's present acts in stalking her mother and Johanna's recollection of her past relationship with her mother when she is young. Most importantly, Johanna's memories unveiled the power dynamics between her father and her mother, where her father is "a difficult man to live with, a strict patriarch who enforced his will in everything no matter what, controlled his surrounding through fear". This caused mental distress in her mother, to which Johanna doubted the reason for her estrangement from her mother is in fact the distress caused by her dad in the past. The chapters were further written in a "stream of consciousness" like inner monologues where Johanna is constantly guessing her mother's thoughts and intentions, which at times resulted in Johanna on the verge of being an unreliable narrator. The psychological analysis of the mother-daughter dynamics through the lens of Johanna, who is now obsessed with contacting her mother, are very impressively portrayed. Johanna's emotions, grief, pain, obsession, her yearning for her family, and especially, her mother's approval, are all beautifully and suffocatingly fleshed out through her monologues: "Mum has disappeared for me, Mum has become a foreign country, she belongs to a mythical age..."; "...the relationship between mother and son and mother and daughter is different, because the mother is a mirror in which the daughter sees her future self and the daughter is the mirror in which the mother sees her lost self, and so maybe Mum doesn't want to see me so she won't know what she has lost?"; "Am I deliberately dragging out saying goodbye to Mum? She challenged me as a child and vanquished me as a child, as an adult I challenged and vanquished her, and is it spite or determination that now prevents me from leaving the battlefield?"; "I made myself homeless and homeless I am, and my anguish will not be stilled. Hailstones lash the window and teeth gnaw at the walls, steel knuckles bang on doors, paws maul, creatures sigh, wanting to get in, the terror arrives, the great darkness rises from the forest and the sky hangs low over me like a stone"; "She abdicated her role as my mother, I was dead to her. She had succeeded". The final showdown between Johanna and her mother to me is the climax and highlight of the novel as Johanna finally gets the answers that she wants and she finally can cut ties with her mother without any reservations. The hatred and disappointment between the mother and daughter as portrayed in that scene may cause some controversy as society is still unable to accept the fact that mothers have the ability to "overcome" basic maternal instincts in hating their daughters. Such a complex portrayal of the mother-daughter relationship reminds me of Avni Doshi's Burnt Sugar, but Is Mother Dead took a unique approach in exploring this theme, which is much more impressive to me. Without a doubt, a strong 5/5 star read and I would love to see this being shortlisted for the 2023 International Booker Prize!

(4.5) Is Mother Dead follows Joanna, who after many years of being away, moves back to Oslo where she is from and where her mother and sister still live. Her relationship with her family has been strained for many years but becomes estranged when she does not show up for her father’s funeral. Now Joanna is back to work on her art for an upcoming art retrospective. Being back in the same city as her mother, Joanna finds herself thinking about her mother, wondering what she is thinking and what she is doing - almost to the point of obsession - and as her childhood memories start coming to the surface she starts stalking her mother. Is Mother Dead is described as a cat and mouse game and it begins as not so much cat and mouse as it is the cat imagining a conversation/argument with the mouse in her mind. This part of the book reminded me of the conversations someone like me, who hates confrontation but also hates being misunderstood, will have in their mind with someone who has upset or angered them. The other person has no idea this conversation is going on and we can never know what the non-present person is thinking - I doubt this will make any sense to anyone who hasn’t read the book but that’s what it felt like to me. But then it begins to look deeper into the mother/child relationship and the wounds that are caused when an emotionally unavailable mother - due to her own issues - raises a child who grows up continually feeling like a disappointment to that mother and how that leaves the child grappling for a connection with that mother. “If we knew, if we understood when we were young how crucial childhood is, no one would ever dare have children.” There were so many sentences that were striking that I think will really move anyone who was a child who wanted to please their parents but felt like a disappointment or like someone who their parents just couldn’t understand. It was not only beautifully written but it elicited so many emotions in me which I really appreciate in books. While this is very similar in theme and tone to Will & Testament by the same author, for some reason this one really impacted me and has stuck with me. This was easily one of my top three translated works of the year. I highly recommend if you like knowing a character’s innermost thoughts and reflections on difficult parental relationships. * No. 3 of my top 3 translated books of 2023 *

A fantastic story. Andrey Kurkov has a dry and vry humour which put colour on his stories, and often some warmth. One of his regular themes pop up again in this book, the nature or character of the "soviet man". Former KGB officer Ryabtsev ponders on life on page 165: " He had strong arms, a clear mind, his height was – well no less than Putin's, and nor was his education. But even with all that, and despite his other good qualities, he felt a soul-crushing uselessness of his own existence". I'm inspired to plan a trip to Lviv after reading this book, it sounds like an interesting city. But that trip might need to wait until after the war, when the Ukrainians have driven out the Russians. The book was originally published in 2012, in Russian, but has recently been translated to English.

My review might be tainted by the nostalgia I have for the city in the title. But I was hooked on every bit of this book from cover to cover. All the characters have magnetic quirks. And the translated prose is fantastic.

Kurkov has created an absorbing story with entertaining characters that is completely bonkers. it has its own internal logic in an "At swim 2 birds" kind of way

Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize Finalist for the 2025 Orwell Prize 'We're open to everyone,' Indiya agrees. That said, the Universalists are a noticeably homogeneous group: young, middle class and white. 'This lifestyle takes a leap of faith,' she explains. Intentional living requires a step away from the 'activism myopia' that can ('Understandably!' she stresses) afflict marginalised groups. Natasha Brown’s Assembly was a brilliant debut and one of the finest novels of 2021, shortlisted for the Goldsmiths Prize and a finalist for the Orwell Prize for Political Fiction. Her sophomore novel, Universality, due out in 2025, is also destined to be a contender for major prizes. While it ostensibly is more conventional stylistically, in its impact it is even more challenging to the literary and political status quo. It’s a novel about the power of words and stories – the stories we tell about others, the stories we tell ourselves and want to be told about us – and about privilege and about diversity, and the assumption that it’s others who benefit from both. The first quarter of the novel is , an extended article, originally published in Alazon Magazine in June 2021, a New Journalism style investigative piece entitled “A Fool’s Gold”, based on an odd incident during lockdown when an illegal rave ended with one person being rendered unconscious, struck by a 400 ounce gold bar (current bullion price, close to £800,000). As the article’s author explains: Unravelling the events leading to this strange and unsettling night is well worth the trouble; a modern parable lies beneath, exposing the fraying fabric of British society, worn thin by late capitalism's relentless abrasion. The missing gold bar is a connecting node between an amoral banker, an iconoclastic columnist and a radical anarchist movement. The novel then moves on to the author of the piece, Hannah, a previously struggling journalist, who is hosting a dinner party with her friends to celebrate the news that the story is being turned into a TV story, although a fictionalised version with details changed to make it even more resonant (e.g. a key character becomes black) The truth, more often than not, benefited from the techniques of fiction. Every hack knew that. Although as we learn how Hannah came to write the article, we realise this adage applies as much to her original piece. The next section takes us to the story of the aforementioned “amoral banker”, Richard, original owner of the gold bar, whose life, to him entirely unfairly, has been ruined by the story. And the final section is an interview at a leading Literature Festival of the “iconoclastic columnist” Lenny Leonard who by contrast, is a beneficiary, parlaying her notoriety into a new career as a crusader against woke capitalism and a move from the right-wing press to the Observer [as she mentions more than once, appearing alongside ‘Cohen’, an intriguing reference]. During that interview she explains her modus operandi and that of the paper, including quotes such as We tell you want you want to hear, while convincing you that it’s the truth, told as close to objectively as possible and Your readers come away believing they are aggrieved on someone else’s behalf. And this is where the novel’s power lies. Whereas Assembly gave us the single narrator’s searing perspective on everything she saw around her (including, to an extent, checking her own privilege as an Oxbridge-educator city worker), here, with the multiple perspectives, everyone sees themselves, and those like them, as the victim. And the reader’s sympathy is then naturally drawn to those with who they identify – for me, far from being amoral, that would be banker Richard, at least for his professional (if not personal) life. I found myself nodding along with his lament when even an attempt, in GQ Magazine, to tell his side of the story turns into a hatchet job: Richard couldn't quite understand what it was about him that rankled these people so much. Hadn't he simply done what he was supposed to do? He'd taken the eleven-plus, made it into the grammar school, and simply followed that life path to its inevitable conclusion. He didn't hurt anyone, he didn't exploit anyone. He tried, as much as was possible, to work hard and fair. After the crash, he'd moved into regulatory risk ... working to prevent another crisis. And, as the divisional head, he'd ensured that there were women in senior roles, along with a broadly diverse management team. Indeed, he now had a network of colleagues who credited him as a friend and a mentor. He was proud of that legacy. His was not the monoculture of commoditised socialism, with its vague, moralistic promise to end discrimination. He was actually doing his part by hiring qualified candidates and giving them the same chance at success that he himself had received. All these 'writers' did, as far as Richard could tell, was spread gossip for fun and profit, stoking outrage and discontent without actually fixing anything. Inspiring stuff, at least to this reader. But that’s because as a white male (ex) banker from a working-class background, that’s not dissimilar to the story I tell myself as well – or indeed, of course, the story that Lou in Assembly told himself. And at the novel’s other end, are the “radical anarchists”who, as per my opening quote, have moved, in their view, beyond the ‘activism myopia’ of more marginalised groups, to an oddly exclusive worldview for self-proclaimed Universalists. So perhaps it is Lenny who is actually the one character who is most self-aware If anything, I’m a misanthrope. An equal-opportunity hater. Or is Lenny the least self-aware character of all? A novel which will provoke some fascinating and challenging discussions next year, and another brilliant novel from an author who, rightly, was named as one of the 2023 class of Granta Best of Young British Novelists, part of the 'A Fool’s Gold' piece featuring in the magazine. A resounding 5 stars. Thanks to the author, via my twin, aka Gumble's Yard - Golden Reviewer, for the ARC. A taster here of further content.

brilliant & brutally british. LOLed and SMHed IRL multiple times while reading

Natasha Brown’s debut novel “Assembly” was a scathing critique of race, class and society. It was delivered through the voice of an upwardly mobile twenty something black woman on the cusp of heretofore unimagined success. Brown’s follow-up novel “Universality” considers the same themes through a different lens asking how language creates cultural myths and influences perceptions. The novel’s first section is an investigative magazine article exposing the consequences of a rave on a Yorkshire farm during the COVID lockdown. A young man has used a gold bar to assault the leader of the Universalists, a youthful political group intent on fostering an alternative lifestyle on the farm. The article, entitled “A Fool’s Gold,”is a thinly veiled amalgam of investigative journalism laced with sociopolitical overtones and inferences. In subsequent sections of the novel, the story is retold from the perspectives of the article’s author as well as the views of the disgraced banker who owned the gold bar and the thoughts of a controversial columnist.Each telling casts doubt upon the reliability of the other accounts. Gradually, the novel challenges the reader to sift through conflicting versions of “ truth.” There are no reliable narrative voices and the novel becomes an exercise in detection and evaluation of society and politics. The role of language as a driver of questionable facts is pivotal for understanding how political metaphors influence social narratives and sway group perceptions. “ Despite her cavalier talk, Lenny’s views are often nuanced and well considered; she doesn’t adhere to a single side for every debate…” “ Still, Lenny retains her characteristic style: heavy on aphorisms without wasting time on citations or justifications..” Lenny in the above passages is Miriam” Lenny” Leonard,a well known columnist and social influencer.This description of her style appears in the investigative article and reflects Lenny’s flexible relationship to facts and accuracy. Her jaundiced style is shared by many as Lenny herself notes saying,” The truth, more often than not, benefited from the techniques of fiction. Every hack knew that.” “Universality” is a subtle and sophisticated novel that merits close reading.As each section unfolds, more complexities arise regarding the role of language, deception and political realities.Years ago, one of my political theory professors constantly emphasized that words are fists.Throughout this novel, competing individuals and groups are subtly assaulting each other through the media , attempting to create narratives that will lead to influence and profit. The gold bar used in the assault is a symbol of the glitter and avarice prevalent in our political structures. Ultimately “Universality “ examines the ways that media controls perceptions and fosters either alliances or enmities among disparate social groups. Although the novel’s political milieu is set in Britain, the concerns resonate worldwide.In the United States, for example, we are witnessing segments of the population becoming marginalized and dispossessed as political narratives of questionable accuracy gain traction. This well conceived novel combines provocative observations with uncomfortable truths about the direction of our social and governmental institutions…Outstanding.

I loved the structure of this. Exploring race, privilege, and class in a candid way. Asking the question: who are we really, and how do we want the world to see us? Told through five chapters, each one revealing a little more dimensionality to what we initially thought we were reading. A social critique and a political satire intended to provoke. Although it’s a short read, it packs more of a punch than books twice its size. Characters who are either misguided, misinformed or deliciously monstrous. I blew through this thing because it had an addictive quality to it. Also, it made me tense because it embodies a world that I sadly recognize. I loved Brown’s debut ASSEMBLY, but I loved this one even more. This was all-consuming. Literary rage-bait.

While this book might be a little bit "on the nose", I loved it. Which is really saying something because I'm not usually a fan of satire. But if there was ever a group that deserved skewering it's the media, and Universality does not hold back. More subtly, Brown also reflects our human nature and how much we actually like to be incensed and how the media leverages that enjoyment for their own financial gain. Right now, I think this book is almost too of the moment, but I think it's Animal Farm, a book that future generations will dissect with interest in literature classes. Unfortunately, I don't think this one makes the short list. It's a little too close for comfort. But wow, Natasha Brown, I can't wait to go back and read Assembly.

Natasha Brown has hit her stride. She is a master at saying a lot and using a little. This, her second novel, while not as slim as her first, packs more dynamite on each page that other books that work at the same subjects and take at least twice the length to do so.

Stylish and very much of the times, Universality packs a lot in its 150 pages. I’m a sucker for shifting POVs, stylistically different chapters, and reinterpretation of previously assumed plot points. Books like Lisa Haliday’s Asymmetry and Susan Choi’s Trust Exercise are well within the range of acceptable comparators. I thought that Brown’s observations were sharp and her prose very true to life and the current moment. So many hot button issues are touched on and it’s impressive how each argument is able to sit alongside the rest of the novel in tension with what has come before. There’s a little bit of this novel that’s too smart for me, but I felt drawn in by my inability to grasp the entirety of the story rather than off put. I’d seen a few community reviews noting that it is occasionally like fancy nonfiction. Fair! For me, it worked quite well. Thanks to Jon for putting me on to this one!

An anarchist group takes up residence on an unoccupied farm that was purchased by a wealthy man as a retreat for when society breaks down. The police arrived to break up their party only to discover a body and a missing bar of gold. The group preached Universality, a place where all were welcome. A young journalist writes an article about the incident, bringing momentary fame. Another woman writes a book preaching ‘no mo’ woke’, reflecting the zeitgeist of the times, believing that white men ae the victims of ‘woke capitalism.’ This British novel captures the shift from the activism of Occupy Wall Street and Black Lives Matter to the veering away from race as an issue, with another movement calling itself universality. The writer of No Mo Woke says she only writes “what we’re all thinking,” claiming her ideas universally relatable. Our world was chaotic. Even the so-called experts and their supercomputers couldn’t predict the trajectory of a bouncing pinball. from Universality by Natasha Brown The characters discuss big issues. Are we “sleepwalking into idiocy”? Should job applicant’s DNA be tested to determine their suitability for jobs? Is “class the new race”? Is it immoral to be a billionaire? Original, a short read dense with ideas, and a universally relatable commentary on contemporary society. Thanks to the publisher for a free book through NetGalley.

Thanks to Random House for the gifted copy If Perfection is a historical artifact about a generation and about a city*, then Universality is a snapshot of our current sociopolitical climate i.e. the hell we're living through. In sharp concise writing Brown picks apart class, race, privilege, and identity. And that's the key to the whole thing- language. How words are used to manipulate, shape, and control. We learn of an assault involving a solid gold bar, an anarchist collective, an illegal rave during covid lockdowns through an article that reads like something that would go viral. As the narrative changes, layers are peeled back to show us the fallout of the event and the voices affected by it. The journalist who wrote the article - how, and more importantly why, they may have gotten access to some key players. She's gotten a taste of the limelight (but it's really the money that's come along) and craves more. The banker, and owner of the gold bar, who has become a pariah in his world. The columnist, I would actually call a grifter, who stokes the right and who is rebranding in a way thanks to the article, promoting her stance against woke capitalism. You eventually start to realize how everyone sees themselves as the victim, how fiction is used to twist fact, how this book is having a laugh. I loved every second of this novel. I will freely admit that this is very much preaching to the choir at times, but Brown directs her eye, or more like her scalpel, to both the left and right to get at the truth. While this is definitely a social-critique on Britain specifically, it's sadly universal, especially with how the media attempts to control certain narratives or uses certain words to engage or appease. *I'm totally quoting myself here 🤣

Having enjoyed Natasha Brown’s debut , Assembly, I was eager to read her second novel, Universality. The book opens as a long form article about a man who murders someone with a bar of gold. It’s written as an investigative piece with interviews, profiles etc. Then the novel evolves into a criticism on the manipulative properties of media: whether a journalist should seek the truth or create readership sales or the damaging effects media can cause, especially when half truths are told. This is achieved by the novel focusing on the journalist and various people who were mentioned in the article. For its brevity, Universality is a literary onion - full of layers that reveal a core. As satires go, it’s a great one. Also as experimental literature, it’s pretty accessible so highest recommendations here.

Ok first off, that last scene. Holy shit. One of the most claustrophobic, fascinating, and outright thrilling passages I’ve read in quite a while. This is a great little novel that delivers on an equally great and ambitious conceit. It’s full of complex, unlikeable, frustrating characters (which is the best sort of cast, in my opinion) whom Brown uses to act out the uneasy political and social sphere of contemporary Britain. Scene for scene, it’s an incredibly entertaining work, with plenty of biting commentary to return to once the initial shock of Brown’s taut narratives and character studies recedes. A book that encapsulates a sociopolitical moment as electrifyingly as works like Such A Fun Age, Luster, and Brown’s own novella from a few years ago, Assembly.

Brilliant!

Wow! I haven't been this excited by a recent release since I can remember. I'll try and put some coherent immediate thoughts down but realistically this review will likely need some space because I loved this book so much it will need to settle in. Without discussing plot, which is part of the joy of the book, this is really about VOICE. Narrative voice, messaging, target demographics, communication strategy, the real craft of writing. Writing is not just the structure of a piece and the choice of words, but the intuition of when to place it and where. And how to manipulate. Wow what an incredible book. This ticks all the boxes: it's a pandemic novel, it's a Brexit novel, it's an immigration novel, it's about the commodification of race and class and communication. Oh and it's a novel of 2025. Absolutely. I've only read 3 of the Booker longlist so far but far away this is my pick to win. It needs to get shortlisted at the very least. WOW. Brown is one to watch. ===== Booker Prize Longlist 2025 ====== It's been 9 years since I last read a booker longlist and decided I'd jump back in and see if it felt like a prize worth following again. Here's the reviews in the order I read them: 1) Love Forms by Claire Adam 2) The South by Tash Aw 3) Universality by Natasha Brown 4) Flashlight by Elizabeth Choi 5) One Boat by Jonathan Buckley 6) Audition by Katie Kitamura 7) The Rest of Our Lives by Ben Markovits

Who They Was, currently one of the Booker Longlist nominees for 2020, is one of the most perfect amalgamations of gritty subject matter and affecting prose I have read in a long time. This is autobiographical literary fiction in which Gabriel "Snoopz" Krauze reflects on his past as part of London's gang culture and tells a raw and powerfully moving tale of the rampant adversity, abject poverty and sheer desperation that often drives people into the arms of organised crime. The burgeoning gap between the rich and the poor, societal inequalities, the far-reaching and devastating consequences of the chronic underfunding of youth services as well as mental health services, the existential crises and complete disillusionment of young men and women regarding the hand they've been dealt, and many other problems, together create the perfect storm which leads to less-than-exemplary behaviour and gang involvement. Everything that happens throughout the story was experienced by Krauze in real life and begins in 2007 in his native South Kilburn. It is a mind-blowing and profoundly authentic read and one I had to devour long into the night to see exactly how things would turn out. Many people believe those involved in the innumerable crimes he fearlessly admits to, having served time for a lot of them in notorious Feltham prison, and moving in the circles in which he moved to be ”societies wasters”; those who refuse to work 9-5 jobs or too lazy to study but Krauze was reading English Literature at Queen Mary University in London rebutting this assumption completely. Being heavily involved in gang life, drugs, guns, stabbings and robbery does not exclude you from intellectual pursuits but people like to demonise and dehumanise those involved in these activities purely because people often fear what they don't understand and that goes for both other humans as well as alternative, or criminal, lifestyles. But people should show compassion and at least try to understand because unless that happens, nothing will change. Don't get me wrong, the incidents described throughout the book are harrowing, disturbing and clearly very wrong and what comes across quite strongly is that Gabriel was seemingly more inclined to jump right in and take things a step further than many of his cohorts perhaps would have, yet he refused to get caught up in gang warfare and postcode rivalries/turf wars. Authority figures seem to have an issue believing that he is a white male despite hailing from Poland and being exactly that. In their minds, it appears that all gangsters must be people of colour, which, of course, is ludicrous; it would be more helpful if people could perceive this as a class crisis that it is rather than stooping to racial and criminal stereotyping. I can certainly see this being a polarising and divisive book and some may criticise it for glamorising violent crime, however, regarding a story of this nature you either go all out and write about everything, rather than merely select parts, or you just don't bother at all. Towards the end of it, we see a redemptive arc come into play whereby friends encourage him to leave that life behind for good before he ends up incarcerated for life or worse. This is a wholly unique read in that there are many sentences punctuated with London slang and I found the deeper into it you ventured the more the unadulterated honesty on Krauze's part made him relatable, despite the fact that he and I have led vastly different lives. Shifting between poetic beauty and London slang starts off a little jarring but as you become accustomed to it you realise it perfectly illustrates the juxtaposition between the two completely separate ”lives" he's living. There's no doubt in my mind that the author is extremely talented, and I am overjoyed that he left the dangerous lifestyle behind him to write. Unforgettable from start to finish. Many thanks to 4th Estate for an ARC.

Eyebrows were raised at the number of debuts on this year's Booker longlist, but Gabriel Krauze's scintillating Who They Was is surely a worthy contender. It has been referred to as 'literary non-fiction', as the shocking events it describes were all experienced by the author in his younger days. Krauze grew up in a disadvantaged part of London and was attracted to a life of crime from an early age. The gangs that ruled South Kilburn, along with the power and money involved in their illegal enterprises seemed like a logical path to success. He went by the name Snoopz and took part in various shady dealings, from drug-dealing to robbery and worse. His family were dismayed at the life he chose to lead but their pleading fell on deaf ears. However, Krauze possessed an intelligence and a will to better himself that was lacking in his peers. He studied English at university, while he was living the gang life, and you read on hoping that this is his way out. The story is told in London slang, and though it's a little jarring at first, it settles into an easy rhythm. It also adds to the authenticity of Krauze's account. You begin to wonder how somebody with his intellect could have been lured into such a dangerous existence, but he explains its thrills quite eloquently in his own way: "I’m tapping the zoot to pack the weed and baccy down tap tap tap so it’s nice and tight, and it hits me how I don’t want an easy and boring life. I want to run from the law and feel my heartbeat making me sick. I want to fuck gyal like it could be my last night on Earth. I want to see fear in people’s eyes and eat my own fear. I want to live dangerously, on the edge of existence." "Now that I’ve committed to it there’s no backing out. Better to take risks, better to plunge into the fire and feel alive, if only for a moment, than not to have really lived at all. Some people spend their lives dying. Fuck dat." It's quite a violent story and Snoopz commits many horrific, despicable acts. But in a strange way, I rooted for him. He is better than this, and he has the means to escape if he can only realise it. There are moments of poetic insight in his account that offer a glimpse at his true potential: "Warm yellow lights keep secrets behind curtained windows in the three-storey blocks that sit in the precinct. Street lights fight with shadows and lose. Nightfall. In the distance, rectangles of yellow float in unshakeable loneliness: windows in the concrete towers of South Kilburn." And though he acts like a tough man on the street, fleeting moments show that there is a heart underneath that hardened exterior: "As I leave the flat I start crying silently, tightening up my face with my eyes all blurry, but I can’t work out if I’m sad or if it’s just the way I’d clocked my father’s love for me has no limits, even while it pushes against something terrible." At times I felt ashamed for how exciting I found the descriptions of the crimes that Snoopz commits. But I don't think that the book glorifies violence. It describes how a person can become addicted to this lifestyle; how easy it is to fall in with a gang when you grow up with it on your doorstep. And it sadly reveals the consequences of gang life - Krauze is one of the lucky few who got out. I was hugely impressed by Who They Was - it is a powerful, startling story, showing me a life that I had only caught a glimpse of in statistics and newspaper reports.

Who They Was is stunning. From the book’s visceral opening scene, the reader is plunged into the heart of London street life where aggression, death, drug dealing, and violent crimes, are a feature of everyday life. It’s not for the feint hearted. The whole experience feels tense and authentic. If I could have, I would have read it in one go. It’s hard to put down. It’s all written in the vernacular of London’s South Kilburn which gives it a lyricism and authenticity. It must be largely autobiographical. Author Gabriel "Snoopz" Krauze has clearly lived "dat life": mugging people for their designer wallets and watches, dealing drugs, and smoking industrial quantities of Cro, and loving it, whilst, surprisingly, also managing to be a top performing student at Uni studying for his English degree. He completes the degree despite a couple of short spells in prison. Although Snoopz feelings about his life choices are somewhat ambiguous he gradually becomes drawn back to his Polish family and makes telling observations about himself and his friends and associates who embrace unapologetic and ruthless violence to get what they want. Who They Was is a lot more nuanced than it first appears. It’s a masterpiece and I hope it gets the audience it deserves. 5/5 Who They Was is an electrifying autobiographical British novel: a debut that truly breaks new ground and shines a light on lives that run on parallel, but wildly different tracks. This life is like being in an ocean. Some people keep swimming towards the bottom. Some people touch the bottom with one foot, or even both, and then push themselves off it to get back up to the top, where you can breathe. Others get to the bottom and decide they want to stay there. I don’t want to get to the bottom because I’m already drowning. This is a story of a London you won’t find in any guidebooks. This is a story about what it’s like to exist in the moment, about boys too eager to become men, growing up in the hidden war zones of big cities – and the girls trying to make it their own way. This is a story of reputations made and lost, of violence and vengeance – and never counting the cost. This is a story of concrete towers and blank eyed windows, of endless nights in police stations and prison cells, of brotherhood and betrayal. This is about the boredom, the rush, the despair, the fear and the hope. This is about what’s left behind.

FINAL REVIEW: It’s not an exaggeration when I say that Chapter 1 is one of the most intense scenes I’ve read in a book. Page 3 made me flinch. It grabs you by the throat and it's relentless. A hell of a way to open a novel. If you're someone who can't handle hyper-violence in your novels (I'm talking Marlon James type violence), stay far away from this book. You’re either in or you’re out. Right from the start, you’re thrown into a hardcore depiction of a life of crime, and Krauze isn’t interested in throwing you a life jacket. The pacing is breakneck speed and makes it feel like it’s hard to breathe, and that’s because the writing has a sort of claustrophobic edge to it. That’s what makes this novel so effective. One thing you’ll notice is the cavalier attitude to violence and crime, meaning you won’t find characters who feel remorse for their actions. Violence is their life; it’s in their blood; it’s what shapes them as men. Speaking of men, you’ll also notice the book’s hyper-masculine tone; lots of machismo, bravado, and problematic attitudes/behaviors towards women and the idea of manhood. Understandably, this tone may bother some readers. Personally, it didn’t phase me because it truly fits into the characteristics of who these individuals are. If those elements were absent from the novel, it would have felt cheapened somehow, even inauthentic. With that said, don’t expect to fall in love with these characters. This is not that kind of novel. What you’ll find here is an unnerving, bold, and honest character study on the violent behaviors of men. Lastly, there is a lot of slang (mandem, brer, zoot) mixed in with run-on sentences, both of which makes the book have a frenetic and hypnotizing rhythm. I think that’s the best way to describe this novel: it puts you in a trance. Whether it’s a good or bad trip will depend on your sensibility on the subject. Good or bad: it’s enrapturing. What a pressure cooker of a novel. I’m still processing. https://www.instagram.com/p/CFFaEFQAM...

This is mad beautiful and raw, broski; se non è vero, è ben trovato.

This is a phenomenal debut novel (which reads more so as a memoir than as fiction) that took me on a truly immersive journey of the author, Gabriel’s, life - as he traverses between heavy involvement in London gang culture and studying an English degree at Queen Mary’s University. I adored the writing style and switching of tones throughout to represent the disparity between these 2 worlds he lived in at once. I’ve noticed other reviews that slate this novel for “glamorisation of gang culture and violence.” But rather, I think it’s an authentic and raw, most definitely at times disturbing, look into the reality of the lifestyle that fosters at the heart of areas where the effects of the class divide, societal inequalities, underfunding and a whole range of other problems are felt hard. 4.5 rounded up to 5. -0.5 because I can’t help feeling uneasy with white authors using racial slurs (and straight authors using homophobic slurs) especially when they aren’t imperative to the story - always interested to know how other people feel about this?

Considering this is semi-autobiographic, there's no point in saying it's unoriginal, even though similar stories have been told many times using various media. Young boys growing up in unsafe and poor neighborhoods, falling in with the wrong crowd, living a life shadowed by prejudice and filtered through crime, yet the protagonist seems to have a spark of intelligence and charisma that makes us root for him despite his catastrophic behaviour. What's so brilliantly refreshing about this novel though, is that the voice of the protagonist reads very authentic, and even though his English studies and love for philosophy could seem unrealistic, they're verified by his eloquent inner voice that mixes gang lingo with poetic outbursts and deeply philosophical observations about society's imbalances. Heartbreaking yet hopeful.

This is just incredible. How it didn't make the Booker shortlist, I'll never know. It's full of high-octane thug-life crime and action, but supplemented with some of the most beautiful, thought-provoking sentences I've ever read. I've not read anything like it before. An exceptional book.

A rather confronting read that offers plenty to reflect on, most of which is still churning around in my head instead of making it into this review. If you can withstand the roadman dialect it is well worth the read.

5 stars. Faultless and perfect literature. I’m absolutely gutted that I’ve finished this book

Probably the best modern novel I’ve read. Utterly brutal yet profound. Loved every page. A must read!

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2021 It's always great when the Booker longlists authors from countries that tend to be overlooked in the literary world, like South Africa, and when the judges highlight a hidden gem: Karen Jennings, the underdog in this year's competition, wrote an ambitious political parable that is also poetic and so suspenseful that it is a real page-turner. Our protagonist is Samuel, a 70-year-old man from an unspecified African country who lives alone on the title-giving island, working as a lighthouse keeper (the lighthouse might generally be an overused metaphor, but here, it is employed brilliantly: The island has a lighthouse AND a wall which Samuel tries to keep from crumbling). One day, a young man is washed ashore, and as he and Samuel don't speak the same language, they can't communicate well. Although everything indicates that the man is a survivor from a sunken refugee boat, there is no absolute certainty, and Samuel is haunted by his fears: Is the young guy really a refugee running from war and/or poverty, or is he a criminal on the run from the law? Will he leave, does he intend to live peacefully with Samuel, or does he want to overtake the island, Samuel's home? It's easy to see how Jennings reflects current events and discussions in this story (the year it is set in is not specified, but climate change is mentioned, so it is probably our time). Usually, stories about refugees that we (i.e., Europeans) hear center on young men coming to Europe. Here, two Africans meet on an island, both traumatized by their past. What Samuel experiences with the young man triggers all kinds of flashbacks that reveal his life story and, through it, the history of the African country the story is set in: Colonization, dictatorship, a failing, corrupt pseudo-democracy. It's highly impressive how Jennings conveys how the political landscape has affected Samuel, and how his experiences shape his reactions towards the young man: Samuel is haunted by the injustice, the degradation, the killings he has witnessed; he is ashamed of his own failings; he also thinks back to the people who showed mercy towards him; but he is terrified that the young man might take the last thing that belongs to him: His island. Please note that the cover shows an island in the form of a man's head: After all the turmoil Samuel has lived through, he chose this island as his refuge, and, keeping away from the main land, has become an island himself. But as the famous quote by John Donne suggests, that's no way to live: No man is an island ("No man is an Iland, intire of it selfe; every man is a peece of the Continent, a part of the maine; if a Clod bee washed away by the Sea, Europe is the lesse, as well as if a Promontorie were, as well as if a Mannor of thy friends or of thine owne were; any mans death diminishes me, because I am involved in Mankinde; And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; It tolls for thee.") This doesn't only go for the fictional people in the book, it also goes for real people everywhere, and they are all affected by the questions discussed in the novel, just in slightly different ways. The story is driven by the question what Samuel and the young man will do, whether they will be able to co-exist or even work together - and as the reader doesn't know more about the man than elderly Samuel, whose trauma seems to cloud his judgement, the tension is tangible: I feared for the safety of both of them. This novel really rattled my nerves, it's a deeply moral parable that never spells out its subtext, posing questions that affect everyone. It's a book about fear and empathy, it does nothing less than asking what it means to show humanity. I want this book, a political chamber play dressed as a thriller, to go very, very far in the competition. The longer I think about this text, the better it gets, as it offers so much nuance and psychologically convincing character development - and those metaphors are just so well chosen (this ending - wow). I have only read half the list so far, but for now, this is my winner.

Although John Donne famously wrote “No man is an island”, Karen Jennings makes a convincing case for why the particular man at the centre of her novel can no longer be connected with the nation of his birth. For decades Samuel has lived a solitary existence on an island where he tends a lighthouse, keeps a meagre garden and occasionally buries the refugees who wash ashore. But, when Samuel is in his seventies, one day an unconscious young man that is barely alive appears on the beach. They don't speak the same language and become uneasy companions. His presence stirs thoughts of the past for Samuel who finds: “Memories were there too, coming fast that morning – things best forgotten now approaching as steadily as waves approach the shore.” In fragmented scenes we come to understand Samuel's impoverished beginnings in an African nation that underwent a violent revolution but whose utopian dream quickly faltered after the rise of a dictator that imprisoned many dissidents and protestors - including Samuel. Now that his fragile, circumscribed existence has been disturbed he struggles to accept the presence of another individual. At first I found the way the narrative introduces slivers from Samuel's past to be too jarring as it's sometimes a struggle to understand what's happening. But I quickly came to understand that this was a result of Samuel's brittle state of mind as he's experienced a lot of trauma and devastating disappointment in his life. Gradually I came to see he's not so much a man that is driven by any definite convictions but, like many of us, he's jostled through life according to the dominant politics and ideologies of his society. In one period he might be progressive, in another he might reinforce prejudiced attitudes and when he's trapped in a prison he's willing to do whatever it takes to avoid torture. It's sympathetically shown how he simply wants a better life for himself: “Who didn't want to be more than they were, who didn't want to rise up out of the dirt and be something?” But, because of his circumstances, he finds it impossible to establish any secure existence. He's unable to commit physical violence and it's interesting to consider whether this is because of his own meekness or a determination not to harm other living beings. Read my full review of An Island by Karen Jennings on LonesomeReader

Booker Longlist Challenge (10/13) AN ISLAND by Karen Jennings The least known novel on the longlist, published by a micropress and having received very little attention before surprisingly appearing on the Booker longlist last month, Karen Jennings AN ISLAND is both an intimate story of contemplative and regretful longing of the past and a novel strongly within the tradition of post colonial literature, delving into the disappointments and sense of betrayal many felt toward the regimes that replace colonial rule. Samuel is an elderly man operating the lighthouse on a secluded island in an unnamed African country. One day he discovers a near-dead man who has been washed up from a destroyed boat carrying refugees. Samuel rescues the man, who begins to recover and potentially poses a threat to Samuel. Unable to communicate with each other, Samuel's paranoia quickly takes over as he assumes the worst intensions from the man. Through flashbacks, we quickly learn that Samuel's past continues to haunt him. His father had long campaigned and fought for his nation's independence from Western colonial rulers. Finally replaced, Samuel becomes disillusioned with the new dictator and engages in anti-government protests that result in him being imprisoned for years, losing his family, suffering greatly at the hands of interrogating guards eager to torture their subjects. The past has scarred Samuel and he cannot shake the anger he feels toward several acts of cowardice that led him down the path of prison and loneliness. Jennings writes in a confident, spare prose, that manages to eloquently convey Samuel's sadness, his anger, his desire to rewrite his past mistakes, correct his past behaviour that left him with such shame. A slim novel, An Island manages to say so much about the lingering effects of defeated political struggle, through the very small life of a bit player in grand events, who nonetheless must carry the physical and emotional burden that these events have produced. A great novel.

Easily my favorite from the 2021 Booker longlist. A lighthouse caretaker on an otherwise empty spare island finds a body washed up, a still living man. As we begin to get a sense of this place, we see the flickers of the caretaker's past. The adjectives dystopian, bleak, and ambiguous come mind. It‘s a terrific novel, tightly constructed, creating wonder and discomfort. ----------------------------------------------- 22. An Island by Karen Jennings published: 2020 format: 182-page paperback acquired: November read: May 2-7 time reading: 4:41, 1.5 mpp rating: 4½ genre/style: contemporary novel theme: Booker 2021 locations: an unidentified island off Africa about the author: born in Cape Town, South Africa, in 1982, the daughter of an Afrikaans mother and an English father; both of her parents were teachers. This book was written while she was living in Brazil.

I finished this on Wednesday, but needed this time to reflect on it. I’m not entirely sure what I make of it or what it’s trying to tell me (that ending!!) But I gotta say, I loved every minute of this. It had a claustrophobic tone that I really vibed with. It felt like a horror story without being a full-on horror story. Themes on xenophobia and paranoia. I didn’t know where this was going, and I’m at a loss for how I’m supposed to feel. But this book truly did it for me. What a firecracker.

On a small unnamed island off the coast of an unnamed African country an old man lives and works at the lighthouse. He’s been on his own for a long time and before that his life has been so turbulent and tragic that being on his own is potentially the best situation for him and yet…it’s lonely. One day the sea washes up a companion for him, a refugee who doesn’t speak his language. The old man is reluctant to accept this man, reluctant to trust him, but he doesn’t turn him into the authorities either. Instead, he takes care of him, feeds him, gives him shelter. It would seem like a beginning of a heartwarming story about kindness of strangers, but it isn’t. To the book’s credit, it isn’t. Instead, it’s a story of lingering trauma and the way both cowardliness and violence linger in one’s psyche, eventually becoming interchangeable. The old man’s story is fairly typical of his continent – his country, once a colony, has won autonomy…and wasted it. Subsequent dictatorships ripped apart the very fabric of society and the old man, once young, got tangentially caught up in the dream of rebellion and paid for it with 23 years of his life. Or in some ways, with his entire life. It’s a tragedy. It’s real in ways that don’t require place names. It’s poignant and has a gut puncher of an ending. There's a universality to this story, hence the general and not the specific article in the title. The tragic arc of it is reminiscent of many third world post-colonial places throughout the world. The real star of the show is the writing, though. Strikingly enough, this is a debut. Such terrific writing, so clear, so vivid, so concise, so precise, so engaging…it takes you away. Does that magical thing great books do. It’s a very short novel, though for me it read longer than the state page count, but for its brevity it’s misses nothing and skimps on nothing. This is an entire story of an entire life. Tragic as it is. This is what dramatic literary work ought to be like. Recommended. Thanks Netgalley. This and more at https://advancetheplot.weebly.com/

"At school, and in the churches, the missionaries teach us that the meek will inherit the earth. We have been meek, all of us, and what has our meekness brought us? We have lost our land and ourselves. With meekness we accepted the West, took on all its values and ideals. So much so that we have grown to be ashamed of our own people. That is what the meek have inherited - shame!" Samuel, a 70-year-old lighthouse keeper lived by himself on a secluded island for 23 years. Apart from maintaining his life on the island, he had to harvest corpses of refugees and others that were washed up on his shores. His mundane daily life was interrupted by the arrival of a nameless refugee, whom he saved from his shores. Throughout the story, we learned more about Samuel's past: Samuel's family was forced to move away from their home as their land was appropriated by the colonizers. Thereafter, poverty hits his family and he was forced to beg together with his sister to make ends meet. Samuel's father was attracted to the Independence Movement in order to fight for the independence of their country and freedom from the colonizers. When independence was granted, the President ruled the country but the country was still suffering. The President was then overthrown by the General and he was then referred to as the Dictator who ruled the country thereafter. Under the regime of the Dictator, the country's situation did not improve. "Power made men hateful. Power made men forget everyone but themselves". In particular, the Dictator carried out a policy that purges all foreigners in their country. Samuel, together with his ex-wife was drawn into a resistance movement against the Dictator. The resistance movement failed and he was imprisoned for 23 years. Karen Jennings' narrative is definitely very unique and distinctive. Readers will not be able to gauge Samuel's past before reaching the end of the story. Samuel's past and memories were all subtly embedded in the sentences and Jenning's prose throughout the whole book. Each word and sentence incorporated in this book are not wasted. Colonialism, post-colonialism, xenophobia, racism, dictatorship, political corruption were all fleshed out from a very distinctive perspective with a unique metaphor i.e. the arrival of the refugee and the co-existence of both Samuel and the refugee on the island. Jennings crafted the isolated life of Samuel on the island and his daily routine impeccably. Samuel was obviously haunted by his past: "these memories, hunting him down, taking possession of him". His struggles with his past, his torment, the deeply rooted mindsets of the colonizers, the unforgiving aftermath of post-colonialism, the xenophobic attitude and suspicions, all were the reasons behind Samuel's last act against the nameless refugee. The ending is so chilling and impactful. Emotions were properly layered to build up the intense atmosphere of the ending. An Island is definitely a hidden gem discovered by the jury of the Booker Prize. A strong 4.8/5 rating for this dark horse of the 2021 Booker Prize and I hope to see this in the shortlist!

Masterful. Just amazing. What could so easily be a confusing mishmash of the present, the past and the delusional flows in a perfectly clear way. The contours, depths, swirls and eddies of this book are genius. I am speechless. So beautiful, moving, real and raw. We learn of Samuel the light house keeper's life and the history of his fictitious African country which we will all recognize because it is all of the colonized countries across the globe. You'll love with him, rage with him, cry with him. And feel privileged to have met him. Jennings is an extraordinary writer. I did this book on audio and chocolate, gravelling voice of Ben Onwukwe was perfect. I have to sit down quietly now for a while and let this book wash over me.

I had high expectations for this book because it's on the Booker longlist. This exceeded my expectations. It is so beautifully written. Highly recommend it, although it is indeed a very sad story and probably not something you should read if you're in a difficult emotional space.

Great book, great story, great writer. I enjoyed

"It was there in how she often handled happiness with nervousness, as though good things could only last for a spell." 🖤 This book hits especially hard because of the just concluded Nigerian elections. And crazy to think it was written before that... but it's more than that. The predecessor of Stay with Me still carries Ayọ̀bámi's brilliance for writing stories (although with how closely they hit to home, maybe not just ordinary stories) that slowly build up and leave you in awe when they reach that crescendo. Touching on themes of violence, abuse, poverty Ayọ̀bámi's story juxtaposes the life of young Eniola who just wants to go to school and have a chance to make something of himself and Wuraola a daughter from an affluent family who has never lacked. To be honest, I found Wuraola's character tiring. But I find that one of the many brilliances of literary fiction with this kind of themes is helping readers cultivate empathy & recognizing that this character is probably very real somewhere and while because I feel Wuraola's love plight is something I can never go through, it does help to evaluate how you would respond to someone in the same shoes. This girl was (view spoiler) Meanwhile, Eniola😭😭😭. All he wanted was a better life for himself. Go to school, make something for himself and he just got caught up in the shit that is Nigeria. I swear every Agbero I see on the road these days, is "Holy Mike" in my head now. I need to read a happy book after this because wow.... Especially after this author pulled a(view spoiler)for the ending.

for a book called “the spell of good things”, there are very few good things that happen to these characters 😭 Overall it was a moving and absolutely gut wrenching read. The dual perspective isn’t restricted to one chapter per character, it moves almost fluidly from one to the next. Eniolá and Wúràolá stories intertwined slowly over the course of this book and though they don’t cross paths frequently, you can’t help but draw parallels between the two. Loved this and would highly recommend for fans intensely characters driven stories.

I was convinced from the book jacket that I was about to start the story of a woman searching for the daughter she gave up for adoption. It didn’t take me long to realize that Love Forms was about something different and more complex: a woman searching for herself. Love Forms begins with one of the most spine-tingling openings I’ve read in a long time: a young , white and privileged 16-year-old Trinidad girl named Dawn is whisked away in the dead of night. She boards a boat to take her to Venezuela, to live with nuns (hermanas) until after the birth of her baby girl. Later, traumatized, she returns home, and what occurred is cloaked in silence. And so Dawn’s life unfolds: her medical school education, her marriage to a fellow doctor in London, her sons, her frequent trips back to Trinidad and Tobago. Love Forms is not a propulsive “will she or won’t she find the baby she gave up”tale; rather, it meanders, and it takes different paths, as Dawn tries to fit together the pieces of who she really is, what she really wants, and what she gave up. Everything is just a little messy: the family dynamics of her family of origin who truly do love her but inadvertently hurt her. Trinidad itself is like a beautiful ripe fruit – glorious in its beauty but venomous inside as the economic landscape changes and the drug culture takes hold. The story of Trinidad mirrors Dawn's own with its promise of upward mobility and its danger and disquiet. This is a work of introspection and anyone expecting a fast-paced plot should look elsewhere. The theme is living with absence and coping with an ever-changing presence. As Dawn reckons with her own past choices and as the pieces of her life begin to settle in new patterns, she considers: “Maybe my story wasn’t Dawn, who made a mistake and brought shame to her family. Maybe it’s: Dawn, mortal woman, who took a wrong turn in life and got lost.” I defy any reader to get to the last page without welling up. There is profundity here, and a constant tribute to the power of recollection and the strength of maternal love.

Genre: Literary Family Drama/Caribbean/Adoption Publisher: Random House Pub. Date: Jul 29, 2025 “Love Forms” is a well-written, moving, and, at times, heartbreaking novel about a woman who searches for the daughter she gave up for adoption at the age of 16. The story explores the many ‘forms’ of love a mother can feel for a child she doesn’t know. Dawn Bishop is the youngest child of a well-known Trinidadian fruit juice dynasty. After a brief encounter at a carnival, she becomes pregnant. We also meet Dawn at the age of 58. Adam demonstrates remarkable literary ability in her handling of time and memory, seamlessly weaving together Dawn’s younger and older experiences. The novel explores themes of family, identity, and international adoption, particularly from the Caribbean during the 1980s. When her parents learn of her pregnancy, they send her on a secretive, harrowing nighttime journey to Venezuela. Because she is blindfolded and hooded, she is terrified she will not make it off the boat alive. Her destination is a house run by nuns for girls in her predicament. Although the nuns are decent, she feels further isolated because they are black. Dawn is white. She speaks Trinidadian English. They speak Spanish. She spends four months with the nuns, who deliver her daughter. Then she is immediately returned to Trinidad, under the same conditions, where she continues her education as if nothing had occurred. Her family will never talk about that period of her life again. Adam shows how Dawn’s trauma and shame continue at home since her relationship with her older brothers is different now. They hardly look her in the eye or talk to her. Forty-two years later, she has been married, divorced, has two adult sons, and has spent most of her adult life in England. The author shines in describing how Dawn’s memories are triggered by seemingly mundane moments. Holding her gold necklace makes her wonder if her daughter would like it. Dawn’s questions have only grown more pressing with time. She wonders what region of Venezuela she was taken to. Why can she not identify the nuns? Despite years of emotionally draining research, letter writing, internet forums, and DNA testing, she is still no closer to the truth. Despite Dawn’s abusive and traumatic teenage years, Adam manages to portray Dawn’s life gently. Unlike Joyce Carol Oates’ latest book, “Mr. Fox,” also about an abused teenage girl, this book does not contain stomach-churning scenes. No disrespect to JCO, she is one of my favorite authors. This book is not as melodramatic as it could have been in the hands of a lesser author. Adam has a poetic style that captivates. While there is a lot of drama in this story, it can be slow-moving and character-driven, which may leave some wanting more action. I found it enjoyable. Though not classified as historical fiction, the book illustrates how Trinidadian life is interwoven with Venezuelan history through shared geography, cultural exchange, and migration patterns, enriching the story immensely. Adam won the prestigious Desmond Elliott Prize for her debut novel, "Golden Child," and her follow-up proves this was no fluke. “Love Forms" is a moving portrait of a woman haunted by the child she gave up. I recommend it. I received this Advance Review Copy (ARC) novel from the publisher at no cost in exchange for an honest review. Find all my book reviews at: https://www.goodreads.com/ https://bookreviewer1955.wordpress.com/ https://www.barnesandnoble.com/ https://www.amazon.com/ https://www.facebook.com/martie.neesr...

Let’s start by saying ‘I absolutely loved this book’. It is set in both Trinidad and Tobago and also London. But the main narrative happens in the Caribbean. I wanted to look up all the places as I read about them, but the story was so compelling that .i didn’t want to stop and search. Dawn is the only daughter of a Trinidadian white family who have made their money in business selling fruit juices. At 16 Dawn makes her great ‘mistake’. She gets pregnant from a one night stand with a tourist and her family arrange for her to have the baby adopted. The rest of the story describes the effect this has on her life. I felt all the characters were fully rounded and believable. Dawn herself, who narrates the story, is like someone you might know. She is self aware, she does her best to make her life a success, and on the outside at least she succeeds.. But marriage, career, children, apart, she still has a deep secret and a sad void in her life. So she does her best to find out what happened to her first baby. I loved the writing, I felt very involved in Dawn’s story, and could hardly wait to read some more as I wanted her so much to heal. The descriptions of life in Trinidad are fascinating. There are tensions in the history of this island, and there are changes that. affect her family. The matter of fact way that they accept new dangers such as having to be careful while walking a few yards on the beach, and to have locked gates as well as houses, really brings home the reality of how easy it is to lose an easy and comfortable life style. The book brings these social and cultural changes into the story but keeps well to its central theme ; the ties and bonds of motherhood. Look forward to reading more by this author. I thank Net Galley for an advance copy of this book

For someone who didn't want children, I really blubbed at the end. Can't remember who recommended this one to me, but thank you. It also gave you a real feel for Trinidad and it's recent history.

“Love Forms”, by Claire Adam, is an utterly compelling and beautifully written story of a mother’s search. It has been Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize. In her long search for the daughter given up for adoption in 1980, Dawn finds her own strength, forgiveness, and her recovered heart. It touched me deeply and I will not soon forget Dawn and her journey.

The novel exposes the deep-rooted caste discrimination and exploitation of the poor by society in name of tradition and social hierarchy. The novel is also a study in contrast between the village and city life exposing the long-standing myth of villagers being simple and kind hearted folks. What makes the plot painful and at times heart wrenching is how an innocent town girl is ill-treated, discriminated and ultimately killed by her own mother-in -law all in name of tradition and pseudo values! A powerful read.

I read this book in Tamil. If you can read Tamil, I highly recommend reading this book in Tamil. Seems much of the book’s depth got lost in translation. Out of the three books of Perumal Murugan I have read so far, this book is the best. It is a deeply disturbing and painful book. But it clearly shows how casteism works in villages. There are no particular villains in this book. The system is the villain. Perumal Murugan boldly makes this clear in all his books. There were plethora of books in Tamil which glorified village life and painted a happy picture. But Perumal Murugan is breaking that furniture in all his books and showing us the ‘real village’. Another important thing he did in this book was emphasizing how people are always addressed by a derogatory nickname in the villages. It is a true thing in Kongu villages. In a village, you’re a not a real person. You’re just an entity in the system. Those nicknames remind you that. It always follows you wherever you go. A mild spoiler!!! This oppressive caste system gives enough room for hope. You start hoping and plan for your future. But bam! It will put you back in ‘your place’. It never lets you out, it never lets you live. Worst part is, it traps you with that hope. In this book, Perumal Murugan captures that idea really well. My parents are originally from a village but I grew up in a suburb. So I grew up seeing how caste worked in both the areas. The author captures that contrast really well. Village looks open and airy, but its casteism will strangle you to death. A city looks suffocating and dirty, but it lets you live and prosper. (I will post a detailed review for this book in Tamil)

** spoiler alert ** Pookuzhi is an essential read. It stands as my third favorite work by Perumal Murugan, following Poonachi and Madhorubhagan. Pookuzhi was incredibly intense, and I found myself deeply immersed in it throughout. The narrative keeps us on edge, eagerly anticipating the fate of the main characters. The final chapters were particularly nail-biting and chilling.

"What was here? A ghostly darkness and a violent wind. And all day a heat that singed." Pyre, written by Perumal Murugan and brilliantly translated by Aniruddhan Vasudevan, is one of the grandest reads I have had. The plot is centered around an inter-caste couple, Saroja and Kumaresan, who have shifted to Kumaresan's guarded, hierarchial, bloodthirsty herd of a village. The book places the individual actions prompted only by pure love for each other against casteist society whose biggest concern is shame. Narrated from Saroja's perspective with a lot of stream of consciousness and dialogues peppered in, we observe Saroja's alienness in her new house. Mr. Murugan juxtaposes these with scenes from past, where Saroja lived with her loving family in a town where she was accepted, where caste wasn't a divider. Saroja slowly finds herself only holding onto Kumaresan's love for her. The love too falters like every other emotion when faced with village's collective mandate. The uncertainty of their marriage, faced by both, make the tale much more humane. Kumaresan drinks under pressure, Saroja cries, there is no consolation. Love isn't the end all, a person needs materialistic possessions to gain respect and acceptance into the herd. Saroja's natural reaction to village's diatribes is to shelter herself first in Kumaresan's arms, enclosed by the hut walls and then in nature. Fed up and scared of her mother-in-law's frequent dirges, name calling, Saroja finds her new companions to be birds and a cat. A woman who is shunned by the political, societal life of civilisation tries to find her roots. Hope for an egalitarian polity. The nature is also harsh, it hides as much as it exposes. Saroja wonders how the village with expansive fields and sparse houses looks inviting but is a gaurded territory. The rock, on which the house is built, only burns feet, is barren and unforgiving unlike Saroja who is soft. (view spoiler) The lack of love in the book is stark. With love absent, the only emotion felt is hatred and ensuing violence. The village doesn't shy from being rude, uncomfortable and hurtful. Vellayappan says he is fairer than Kumaresan and alludes to Saroja to sleep with him. Kumaresan's mother never accepts the marriage, always worried about her status in the village. Saroja's family deserts her. Kumaresan's maternal uncle, aunts and grandfather resort to violence instead of making the littlest effort of listening. It shows a world where there is no place for individualism, where everyone's life is decided since birth and can only follow that if they don't wish to be excommunicated. Even the concept of caste has its loopholes. Kumaresan rightfully fights the village's logic by saying how caste only matters in marriage but not in economic prospects. Mr. Murugan criticises caste through eyes of a naive woman who has commited no fault and is punished every minute of the day. The book has exhiliarating Indian flavour that is beautifully translated. Kozhambu, Mapillai, Kurma and everything. With that, the dialogues were so classically Indian that one couldn't help smiling. The dirge calling Saroja erruku shrub, or the description of Bhai Anna. In 'Is there an Indian way of thinking?' by A K Ramanujan, he says an Indian child when asked to describe a man won't say he is nice but instead that he brings sweets. Bhai Anna is described in the same way, to the last details of his bathing routine. The language flows in past and present, past of childhood, youth and even only a few days past. The present is even more uncomprehensible because of the unknown past that only reveals itself in moments. (view spoiler) The book feels so personal and scary. It is a book that will never lose its relevancy because the society will always be violently eager to maintain its alleged purity and after all, it is only exclusion of others that makes one feel included.

The book is set close to home. Hits right notes, evokes right questions and leaves a bad after taste. A honest reflection on hypocrisy that prevails in Tamilnadu even today.

Reading “Happy Stories, Mostly” has been an otherworldly experience. Yes, otherworldly. There is no better way to put it. Blending various genres, from metafiction and realism to sci-fi, speculative fiction, and folklore, this short story collection is nothing less than a razor-sharp, deft portraiture of Nusantara queer etymology and experiences. In the twelve stories which vary in length - some as short as a page and two; some as long as thirty pages - the author depicts and explores the many aspects of living as a gay Batak man in a conservative Christian environment. Navigating the seemingly emancipating but in reality claustrophobic domestic and public spheres, as well as being subjected to different kinds of societal and familial expectations, the characters often try to negotiate with doubts, disappointments, frustration, desires, and sadness. In this cruel world where heteronormativity is upheld and queerness is not tolerated, they are always in search of and dream of possibilities of happiness, albeit for a short time, before they are robbed of the right to do so. Almost happy they are. Such a state of mind, or should I say collective consciousness is subtly represented in the transition and communication of spatiality and temporality in and between these narratives. In other words, although the stories are set in different times, i.e. the past, the present, and the near future, they speak to one another. Without question, it is impossible for me to talk about all twelve stories here. However, I would say that each is linguistically meticulous and carries a genuinely individualistic tone. Among them all, I was especially awestruck by the thought-provoking and polemical “The True Story of the Story of the Giant,” which blurs the boundary between reality and myth. The tragedy of the titular giant known as Parulian and that of Tunggul are interrelated in the sense that they are both the victims of Dutch colonisation (noted: Christianisation) and/or Islamisation, which do nothing but turn indigenous and/or queer bodies into territories marked by restrictions and exploitations. As a colonial subject under the Dutch East India Company, Parulian is seen by the colonial authority as a threat to be eliminated; Tunggul, a bright gay man whose body has always been an object of contestation of his multi-faith parents, even after his passing. Together, Parulian and Tunggul’s fates suggest the wretched legacies of external, intruding powers. Their story is one that made me infuriated for it reminded me of the ever disgraceful anti-homosexuality law in my country, which is one of the ridiculous legacies of the British colonisation. All in all, these stories attempt to answer the questions: What does happiness mean to gay men? Are they happy? If not, whose fault is it that they are unhappy? What are the legacies of historical events that bring about not only the heteronormative concept of family and society, but also the situation gay men often find themselves in? In what way the society imposes heteronormative ideals and expectations on them? The interview between the author and the translator that is included in the book has certainly shed light on several details, such as the motives behind these stories. I would like to end this post with these words of the author, over which I have been pondering since I turned the last page: "The idea of using the word bahagia (Happy) as a title of the book comes from a Goodreads reviewer who advised me to change the title of my first collection to "Stories of People in Suffering," a review that I found very funny. I mean, hetero readers hate sad-all-the-time fictional gays, but gives zero effort to make us, who are gay in the flesh, happy. It's a sad irony. I decided to use the word "hampir" because it is just a letter away from the word "vampir". Being happy, being contented, being positive, being on-top-of-the-world, being fearless, being be-yourself, and being unapologetic are often demanded of us by the so-called progressive heteros. Snap out of it, you poor gays, they might say. As sad as it may sound: for them, happy gays are a sign of social progress. But, let's be real: can you, as a queer, be happy in the way the heteros are happy in Indonesia? Happiness requires an endless list of privileges, in any part of the world. I mean, it is often the heteros that block us from accessing happiness. So I feel those words aren't used with good responsibility. We queer are always thrown to the hampir, to the almost, and there the idea of happiness turns into the vampir."

There are some stories that leave you speechless, and your heart full of emotions to the very brim. And then there is this book. As a reader, with each and every story, you can feel the gentleness, the rawness with which the author has weaved the words. Every story is honest, every story transports you to the streets of Indonesia, and abreasts you with the characters' feelings and turmoils. And yes, as promised, they are happy stories. mostly. a brilliant anthology in every way. ❤️‍🩹

Fantastic book of short stories from a queer Indonesian poet and author. “This world is the closed door. It is a barrier. And at the same time it is the way through. Two prisoners whose cells adjoin communicate with each other by knocking on the wall. The wall is the thing which separates them but it is also their means of communication. It is the same with us and God. Every separation is a link.” -Simone Weil Absolutely stunning quote ^^^ & I loved the call back later on in the story. “The high, thick wall surrounding this city wasn’t built to protect its residents – it was built to separate. Just try knocking on it, you won’t hear anything on the other side. “When a wall is too thick, Uncle, it ceases to become a means of communication.”

so sad & gay, i loved it so much i really enjoyed the conversation between the author & translator at the end !!

I don't think this is technically perfect, no short story collection ever is, but I have to give this five stars because so many stories worked so well for me thematically, and I just loved Pasaribu's writing style, brilliantly translated by Tiffany Tsao. This was my first peek into Indonesian culture through literature, and to have it be a queer-centric one was fascinating. Happy Stories, Mostly is often very dark, sometimes quite sad and emotional, and where it really hit home for me was where queer identities and dynamics within families and relationships were at a crossroads with religion and society, and I loved the nods and critiques to Dutch colonization throughout as well. Just a very well done, well written little book that I absolutely adored.

The luxury housing complex at the centre of this novel is called Paradise, but groundskeeper Polo has trouble pronouncing this English word so his employer orders him to say it phonetically as “Paradais”. Polo is trapped in this dead end job where he's ordered to perform menial tasks for rich people. He's paid little and what money he does make goes directly to his overbearing mother who makes him sleep on a palate on the floor. Polo's cousin lives with them and she may be pregnant with his baby. Outside of work he spends time getting drunk with one of the older boys who lives in the complex named Franco, but Polo refers to him disparagingly as “fatboy”. He's disgusted by Franco but the boy steals quality alcohol or small sums of money for Polo to buy them booze. The sour dynamic of this friendship of convenience is so vividly conveyed as the boys waste their time together and hatch an evil plan. Franco has failed socially and academically so will probably be sent to a military school. He becomes obsessed with his masturbatory fantasies about his female neighbour who is a mother. So they decide to break into the neighbour's home so Franco can force her to have sex with him and they can rob the property. These are young men who feel they have nothing to lose which makes them incredibly dangerous. As with Melchor's novel “Hurricane Season” there is a hypnotic intensity to her prose which spills out in an almost stream of consciousness style. We're bombarded by Polo's sensory experience of the world and his emotional interpretation of it. All the while we deeply feel his growing resentment for the callous wealthy residents of this complex and anger about his limited options in life. This takes the form of long blocks of text and extended sentences. It's a narrative structure which is entirely suited to conveying Polo's point of view and made me feel trapped in it just as he feels ensnared by his circumstances. In this way it feels somewhat similar to Damon Galgut's technique in “The Promise” because while being locked into the perspective of this character the reader is also implicated in his misogyny, bitterness and fury. While this can't exactly be called a pleasant experience it is so effective in conveying his worldview, his warped reasoning and his motivations. It made me feel empathy for him as he essentially doesn't seem like a bad person. He's just overwhelmingly frustrated by his economic and social position in life. He's also been raised to embody a pernicious form of masculinity. At the same time, I'm repulsed by his attitude and decisions. It's an effective way of completely drawing me into this menacing character's life. Read my full review of Paradais by Fernanda Melchor at LonesomeReader

FULL REVIEW // Melchor, I love your mind. Give me more. Full disclosure: This is not HURRICANE SEASON great, but it is great nonetheless. While PARADAIS shares a lot of similarities with the former: both have cruel and miserable tones; showcase repulsive-WTF imagery; have seemingly never-ending sentences (although the sentences are less flamboyant here); explore themes of poverty, violence, greed, and toxic masculinity, both books approach these attributes quite differently. PARADAIS felt a lot more introverted and self-contained. In HURRICANE SEASON, there were a wide array of characters; everyone is always moving around with nervous energy; desperate and unable to keep still, and a frenetic energy throughout. Although in PARADAIS the two main characters are also nervous and desperate, they have limitations on where they can go. This is in part because they are merely teenagers, but it’s also because they are quite physically trapped in their surroundings. Read the book to see what I mean. While in HURRICANE SEASON, every page feels like it’s running out of time, the narrative of this novel bubbles and bubbles until it explodes. You know it's all going to violently erupt; you’re just waiting for when that ruthless release occurs. For pages upon pages, we’re trapped in the head of Polo, the frustrated teenager who feels like he has no options, who feels like he was given the short end of the stick. But maybe things are about to change for him due to the maniacal plan his friend/enemy Franco has cooked up. Both Polo and Franco see themselves as outsiders, each with their own version of paradise. To them, ideal paradise is getting what they want, but this involves snatching it away from others; they have this inane belief that things should just be given to them. It’s a different kind of entitlement. And that’s what makes them so dangerous. Melchor has a way of making me feel everything she writes. I was highly nervous throughout, but damn, those last 10 pages had me squirming. It terrorized all of my senses. PARADAIS is a literary pressure cooker. https://www.instagram.com/p/CbdLphkrR...

** spoiler alert ** Grim as hell, Paradais is not for everyone. Fans of Denis Johnson, Robert Stone, and Mary Gaitskill will likely enjoy this unsettling novella in which deeply flawed man-child drinking buddies plan and commit horrific violence in a gated community in Mexico. Not fun fact: A store clerk in the book refers to duct tape as "kidnapping tape."

My mind is numb, and my heart is a mess. The latest offering by Melchor is dark, overwhelming, rustic, punches you in the gut, devastating to say the least, and more than anything else, in a very nuanced manner touches on the class differences in society and what happens thereof. Paradais is a shorter compared to her previous work Hurricane Season, and yet it doesn’t feel that way. Its 125 pages are packed with unsettling language, doesn’t play to the reader’s expectations, and definitely does not believe in toning it down. We meet Polo, a 16-year-old school drop-out who works as a gardener in a luxury residential complex called “Paradise” in Progreso, Mexico. The title comes from the fact that he cannot pronounce it, and his boss teaches him to pronounce this way. Even in language, he cannot have a piece of paradise. Polo is the narrator and all he wants to do is get out. He is not rich like the other teenager he introduces us to – Franco Andrade – who is overweight, addicted to porn, only fantasizes about his neighbour and the ways in which he will have sex with her – who is an attractive married woman and a mother of two. Polo just wants to escape his overbearing mother, thinks of his dead grandfather, waits for a phone call from his cousin to get him out, and drinks with Franco (whom he calls Fatboy) so he can forget his existence for a while. It is in such moments of desperation, they hatch a plan, which might go either way for them. Melchor’s writing is not easy to digest. It is bleak, it is angry, it wants to tell so much, and it does, even in so little prose. The anguish, the frustration, and the idea to do better through worse is so ironic and yet the only thing that seems right to Polo. We only see Franco through Polo’s perspective, so at some parts I was also doubting that, but Melchor’s writing convinced me about that as well – that perhaps all Polo says is in fact the gospel truth. The darkness that runs through the town and into the lives of Franco and Polo is palpable. Most of the novel takes place at night – some also during the day, but that’s when the ridicule happens, the discrimination is made clear, the anger is seething – only to appear at night when drunk and find escape by imagining various ways to find an exit. All of this is conjured through Hughes’ fantastic translation that doesn’t miss a beat. When Melchor writes about the Mexican society – whether it is the wealth gap and gang violence, she does it as a matter of fact attitude. It doesn’t preach, nor does it seek pity or empathy. What it also does at some point is scary – it gives agency to the naïve, to the fatalistic teenagers who have no clue what life has in store for them or how will it all turn out and make the most horrific choices. Paradais works on so many levels, and for so many reasons. It is built on the shoulders of toxic masculinity through and through, and you know that world will not last long. The casualness, the most nonchalant manner in which people are thrown about in the book says a lot about the societies we inhabit. Melchor just brings it to fore, and a lot more. Reading this book also repulsed me a lot of times, yet with the constant nagging feeling at the back of my mind that this is the truth – whether I like it or not.

Brutalist perfection. Not for the faint-hearted.

I have been waiting for sometime now to read something by this author, became so excited when I saw this. I mean, it was intense, a short read, not satisfying but the author has such a great way with words. I will definitely be reading more of her work. This novel explores societal issues of classism, racism, and sexism, toxic masculinity. The novel centres around two teenage boys who live in a luxury housing complex. Both outcast and loners, they decide to come up with a plan to break into a luxury housing villa. They are fully realised characters but they are quite pathetic and misogynistic. Having both failed socially and academically, one of the characters becomes obsess f with his masturbating fantasies about his female neighbour. So they decide to break into the neighbour's home so Franco can force her to have sex with him and they can rob the property. These are young men who feel they have nothing to lose which makes them incredibly dangerous. It was gritty and hard to read but the author does such a great job at flushing out these characters in a short amount of time.

This novel is likely to be my favorite book of 2021. It’s so richly present in the world. It’s so full of beauty and humanity. In its discursive style and its attention to lived history it reminds me of Sebald’s AUSTERLITZ but the narrative voice here is warmer. It’s the kind of writing that makes you sit up and pay attention, not only to the story, but also to this life you’re leading. To notice things in a new way. To wonder. It’s the kind of writing that makes you understand that the ordinary is, in fact, extraordinary. I’m very happy to have read this book.

“The past lays before us like an enormous world ready to be colonized.” Thus far, I have read only a small amount of books that are loaded with such a heavy intellectual weight, and at the same time written in lucid and poetic fashion. The narrator here finds herself in a deceased relative's apartment surrounded by old letters, photographs, journals that reveal a past distant and unknown to her. In an attempt to reconstruct, connect and render the event and figures from such a little known world, she creates this immense philosophical, part memoir, essay on memory. Wether it is personal or collective, Stepanova investigates the way we perceive, collect and store information. Along with her personal discovery about her family past, Stepanova has created a vast palimpsest of cultural references to evoke and underline the different ways memory speaks to us. Ideas of thought visionaries like Barthes, Susan Sontag, Nabokov, W.G. Sebald —to name a few, constantly emerge throughout the narrative. Stepanova reflections on art and photography are also superb. There is no short way to this book, neither a few sentences are enough to be described. I believe its values will echo on the pages of literary periodicals, but most importantly will kick the readers out of their passive perception and hopefully allow them to acquire a deeper understanding of the tricky way the memory functions.

“When I began to think seriously about my memories I had the startling realization that I had nothing left.” Stepanova’s genre-defying In Memory of Memory is at once a chronicle of her relationship with her family history; a reckoning with her identity through her ancestors and what they have left behind; a condensed retelling of 19th and 20th century Russia (described by Stepanova as a “society passing from one space of tragedy to the next as if it were a suite of rooms, a suite of traumas”); lives lived through letters sent between her relatives; and an examination of the role memory and nostalgia play in our increasingly digitized lives. It is like being led into a room with all the mementos of her ancestors, memory shrunken and transmogrified into porcelain figures. The room is magical for the history it is imbued with, and yet it is cluttered, overwhelming, so saturated it is by memory; it embodies how traumatic, emotional, and consuming remembering can be. Though dense, the book never drags owing to Stepanova’s poetic, metaphoric language that avoids ever dipping into sentimentality. She steps outside of herself to analyze her relationship with memory in dialogue with other writers and artists who were similarly preoccupied with personal history and nostalgia (Sebald, Proust, et al), drawing incredible threads around how conflicting and contradictory self-discovery steeped in the past can be. Most fascinating to me were her discussions of how our ability to accumulate memory through physical, audiovisual, and now digital objects has only increased with inventions like musical records and films. Modern technology, too, turns nostalgia into a daily exercise in obsession, from our seemingly endless camera rolls to social media apps that, unprovoked, show us #throwbacks from one, five, ten years ago today. Stepanova laments this excess of memory (“There is too much past,” she says simply) as well as the dearth of information that could provide insight to her family’s past. At the same time, this excess feels like a dearth in itself, perhaps because what makes any memory precious is its scarcity, both in our ability to fully replay it in our minds and in the lack of physical objects the memory may inhabit in our world. We fear losing this memory, not having access to it through any tangible thing, and how can we trust our aging brains to reliably retrieve it all our lives? She likens this to a murky lake into which people from the past are constantly slipping under, preventing us from developing concrete images of them and dimming the memories we do have. We risk romanticizing or inventing: “The desire to remember, to recreate and fix in place, goes hand in hand with incomplete knowledge and partial understanding of events.” She chides herself for having been “occupied all this time with the Freudian family romance, the sentimentalized past.” To some degree, these faces from the past and letters seem like they are you, some earlier version of yourself that has been reincarnated over and over across centuries. I recall the flicker of recognition I felt seeing a youthful photo of my mother’s uncle: the round face, high cheekbones, soft dark eyes. He looked like my uncle, and as such resembled me. Stepanova considers also the rights of the dead and their stories, realizing that she has become possessive of them, and has even come to feel a sense of ownership over them, as though she had inherited these histories, too. But who else is memory for if not for those that remain? Is our desire to know who we came from — and not just their most basic facts, but our desire to know them as human beings — selfish, or even pathological? Is it not just a process of discovering one’s identity? She indeed seems to settle on this last point: “…The author can’t disappear into the shadows — she can’t get away from the fact that this book is about her.” Her tireless research in compiling this book is an incredible achievement purely from an anthropological standpoint. She succeeds in retrieving her family from those murky waters, making them real not only to herself, but to the reader, rendering them in such detail that they feel genuinely familiar. She comes as close as ever to doing the impossible: making the dead alive again.

"To start writing was to cease to be a curious listener, an addressee, and to become instead the horizon point of the family line, the destination for the many-eyed, many-decked ship of family history. I would become a stranger, a teller of tales, a selector and a sifter, the one who decides what part of the huge volume of the unsaid must fit in the spotlight's circle, and what part will remain outside it in the darkness." In my previous update about the book, I said it was a book one could not rush through. I was also having trouble reading it digitally. So I put it off in May with three chapters read. Better late than never, a physical review copy came at last mid-June, much after the winner was announced and the shadow panel disbanded. So I saved it for WIT month & read it over ten days in daily fifty-page chunks, perhaps the best way to experience it. It's the most well-written book on the 2021 IBP list definitely. The language is precise, lush & gorgeous, every single sentence exquisitely crafted. Sasha Dugdale has truly rendered a stunning "living" translation. As others have said, there are two books in here really. One a memoir about her family & history, another a meditation on memory & how it innervates our existences. Although, I do have to say it tilts more towards the latter. In fact, in the middle section, her family mostly vanishes, only to come up in the "Not A Chapter" sections which reproduce letters and postcards. A balance is a sort of achieved, but it's precarious at best. Frequently, it seems like a collection of thematically linked but distinct essays on the wayward ways of memory. Maria Stepanova deals with material memory, all the stories collected artifacts or passed objects have to tell about the people who originally possessed them. So she increasingly goes on long tangents in a Sebaldian fashion through works of writers and artists from the 20th century, using them as a base to explore her ideas. Family history gets mapped onto Russian history, arranged carefully to create some narrative from disparate elements. I could go on but there simply isn't enough space. It is exceptional. I very highly recommend it. Nevertheless, I still don't see how it was even eligible for a fiction prize. The judges really played all of us this year with the refusal to make strict genre distinctions as IMOM is not an isolated case. Also, I still stand by my final wrap-up rankings in June. This is a book that will reward rereading & I was glued to the page throughout. A word of warning, there is a very unnecessary para on Saartje Baartman, leading up from a section on Dahomey Amazons. It was best avoided & left me uneasy. (I received a finished copy from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.)

4.5 stars // Finished this book last night and it was only then that I realized that it took me an entire month to read. I very much liked it. It plays with the idea of memory. What elements make up a memory? This caused me to step back and reevaluate my identity, my life, and my connection to the rest of the world. The book is part personal essay, part family history, part World history, parts conversations with literature, etc, etc. It’s a lot of things. An enriching read.

'Any anecdote is just a novel compressed down to a point, and it can equally well be re-inflated to elephantine proportions'. In memory of memory is a triumph, of both Maria Stepanova's rich exploration of family and cultural history, and Sasha Dugdale's stunning translation. Following her aunt's death Maria Stepanova finds herself sifting through a myriad of belongings in her aunt's apartment. In a penetrating study of the minutae of personal memorabilia, Stepanova considers the connections between family, cultural, and big H-history, and questions how far memory can serve in rendering a picture of a person and a life. In a web of letters, photographs, documents, and anecdotes Maria Stepanova crafts a unique memoir for both herself and those who appear in this work that is at once revealing and shrouded in secrecy. At first I struggled to accept that I wasn't reading a work of fiction - this is a history presented in a way like no other i've encountered before. Stepanova continues to construct and deconstruct a sense of linearity, chronology, and "plot". She gently weaves together a collection of items, stories, and people resulting in a sharply tender depiction of the place of memory in H/history. 'Sometimes is seems like it is only possible to love the past if you know it is definitely never going to return' As she begins to attempt to piece together her family, their past, and their lives Stepanova is forced to grapple with the lacunae which sits in front of her. I have an overwhelming urge, upon finishing In memory of memory, to pull out family photo albums, wedding crystals, and notebooks. But i'm apprehensive. What if my family are not the people I thought they were, what if they were so much more. 'Those places where the people of my family walked, sat, kissed, went down to the river's edge or jumped onto trams, the towns where they were known by face and name - none of them revealed themselves to me. The green and indifferent battlefield was overgrown with grass. Like a computer game I hadn't mastered, all the prompts lead to the wrong gates, the secret doors were just blank walls, and nobody remembered anything.'

Maria Stepanova's "In Memory of Memory" is the most affecting book I've read in a long time, but it is not something to read when feeling depressed or vulnerable. She sifts through her late aunt's postcards, letters, and photographs, not just recovering family history, but realizing how much she does not know of those who came before her, even those in the recent 20th century, a particularly treacherous century in Russian history. Stepanova cites Nabokov's "Speak Memory," and her book is a worthy companion piece. She summons up the interwoven personal and national stories often relying on descriptions borrowed from visual media, photos, painting, and film. I think the term for this is ekphrasis. This volume is worth reading for the language alone, which comes through in English translation, beautifully done by Sasha Dugdale. The postcards are an unexpected treasure. Postcards got through the censors more quickly than letters, and were sent in vast numbers during times of turmoil, of which there were many. One early card from the Great War just on the brink of the Revolution has a drawing of a wounded soldier, a sketch by Leonid Pasternak, father of Boris Pasternak, the poet who is often cited by Stepanova. (Background many Russian readers would probably know: Leonid's sketch helped raise funds for the wounded in World War I, but provoked the anger of Tsar Nicholas II for making the Russian soldier look weak.) Told in a lyrical style with endless coincidental associations and literary allusions to Mandelshtam, Sebald, Pushkin, Tsvetaeva, and -- Art Spiegelman, in all this it is difficult to get the actual facts straight, and the facts are really beside the point. It is likely that some ancestors in the Pale of Settlement were witness to the pogroms at the beginning of the 20th century, but no one wanted to discuss this. One ancestor was swept up in revolutionary activity in 1905 and landed in jail. She was acquainted with another radical from the Jewish community of Nizhny Novgorod (later renamed Gorky), Sverdlov, who went on to a brief stint of great power under the Bolsheviks. (Ekaterinburg was renamed Sverdlovsk in his honor.) Another ancestor brought knowledge of ironwork from the mining region in Cheliabinsk to Kherson and briefly became wealthy before the Bolsheviks confiscated everything. Others were good communists, which did not always protect them from suspicion during the Great Purges. Another relative was drafted in his teens to defend Leningrad and wrote disingenuously upbeat messages to his mother right up until the inevitable end at age 20. The Seige of Leningrad is described in quietly harrowing style. At the end of the World War II, despite the rejoicing, there was a period of great fear, Stalin was targeting Jewish doctors, and those in her family were shaken. Her father was born in Sverdlovsk, a city with a legacy of regicide. Her family was resilient; they worked as medical doctors and factory workers, librarians and accountants, but with many interludes of hunger, disease, accidents, and poverty. By the time the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 her parents had had it. Rationing had returned, and they were leaving for Germany. Maria decided to remain and retain the family's Russian identity, and sift through memories. This is not an exercise in genealogy, the facts are maybe less important than the emotional lives that cannot be directly documented. These emotions are sometimes better expressed by artists and poets than by her relatives themselves. And Stepanova's poetic talents fill in the gaps. She describes the extraordinary and heartbreaking paintings by Charlotte Salomon to get to the experience of cultured assimilated Jews in interwar Europe. She free associates the name Charlotte with the beloved in Goethe's "Werther," with Thomas Mann's "Lotte in Weimar," and the biggest stretch, with tiny (and creepy) nude clay dolls produced in Germany by the tens of thousands, once popular in the United States and now for sale on EBay as "frozen Charlottes." All this shouldn't work, but it does. Hence the genre she ascribes to the book: a romance.

Took me several months, off and on, to finish this book, but I don't regret a second of it. Truly one of a kind in its execution, and a fascinating way of conceptualizing memory, interpersonal and national history, and lineage. Like dense, poetic theory for deeply sentimental people obsessed with the function of memory, especially as it relates to those who history has deemed insignificant or not worth mentioning (so, deeply up my alley). Also just technically impressive writing and tremendous stylistic voice. Requires patience, but certainly a favorite book I've read this year.

Now shortlisted for the Orwell Prize for Political Fiction Re-read following its deserved (and predicted below) Booker longlisting. I loved this book as much on a second read as a first - its omission from the Booker shortlist was simply to the detriment of the prize. Once upon a time …. Rami Elhanan, a Jew, a graphic artist … father too of the late Smadar, travelled on his motorbike from the suburbs of Jerusalem to the Cremesian monastry in the mainly Christian town of Beit Jala, near Bethlehem, to meet with Bassam Aramin, a Palestinian, a Muslim . father too of the late Abir, ten years old, shot dead by an unnamed Israeli border guard in East Jerusalem, almost a decade after Rami’s daughter Smadar, two weeks away from fourteen, was killed in the western part of the city by three Palestinian suicide bombers .. This brilliant book, surely a serious contender for the 2020 Booker Prize, is a “hybrid novel with invention at its core, a work of storytelling, which like all storytelling, weaves together elements of speculation, memory, fact and imagination”. At its heart is the true story of Rami (and Smadar) and Bassam (and Abir) http://withineyeofstorm.com/about-the... One Thousand and One Nights is an explicit inspiration not just for the storytelling of the book (and the way in which that storytelling in some ways keeps the girls alive - tragically here only in memory), but for its fascinating structure. It is told in 1001 number paragraphs – firstly counting up to 500 and then back down. The first half of the novel has as its narrative underpinning, the journey Rami takes on his motorbike to the meeting above, a meeting at which Rami and Bassam do what they do around the world – tell the stories of their daughter’s deaths, of their own mental journeys and of their plea for dialogue, understanding and peace. Memory. Trauma. The rhyme of history and oppression. The generational shifts, The lives poisoned with narrowness. What it might mean to understand the history of another. It struck him early on that people were afraid of the enemy because they were terrified that their lives might get diluted, that they might lose themselves in the tangle of knowing each other. The second half is underpinned by Bassam’s journey home after the meeting. The middle part is the two lengthy, and powerful accounts, that Rami and Bassam give at the meeting – accounts which we have already largely pieced together from the first part of the book, and which are then further explored on in the second half, but which are set out here in full detail. From the accounts and the book we get a strong sense of the kinship that Rami and Bassam have reached through their tragedies. Amicable numbers are two different numbers related in the sense that when you add all their proper divisors together – not including the original number itself – the sums of their divisors equal each other …. As if those different things of which they are compromised can somehow recognize each other. All of the above would make for a memorable and powerful piece of writing – however what also makes it exceptional literature is the way in which the 500 sections take elements of the stories of Rami and Bassam as a point to weave a web of connections, connections which then in turn give us a deeper understanding of their stories. These connections draw on modern and ancient history, geography, ornithology, mathematics, language, science, politics and so much more. Borges said to his listeners that One Thousand and One Nights could be compared to the creation of a cathedral or a beautiful mosque … Their stories had been gathered at different times, in myriad places …and from different sources …[they] existed on their own at first .. and were then joined together, strengthening one another, an endless cathedral, a widening mosque, a random everywhere It is really hard to do justice to the book and the way in which these connections are both scattered and then gathered together – sometimes via symbolism, sometimes bringing in the terrible reality of violence, and sometimes juxtaposing the two. But perhaps one example will give an idea. A terrible section tells of the work of Zaka Orthodox paramedics to gather up body parts after the suicide bombing which kills Smadar – the paramedics have to return to pick up an eyeball (of one of the bombers) spotted by an elderly man – Moti Richter. The eyeball has parts of the optic nerve attached and reminds Richter we are told of a “tiny old fashioned motorcycle lamp with wires dangling”. Via discussions of eye surgery, we go to the hospital where Abir is dying and Bassam is asked if (were the worse to happen) he would consent to an eye transplant. Via rubber bullets (one of which killed Abir) we visit the death of Goliath, the mushroom effect of suicide bombers. The book explores the tightrope walk of the high wire artist Phillipe Petit (the subject of one of the author’s earlier novels) across Jerusalem, following in the path of a cable used by the Jewish forces to sneak supplies over hostile territory in the 1948 War. Moti was a guard for this cable – and at night would patrol under the cable to ensure it was still working on a motorcycle (which in turn reminds us of Rami’s journey) which had its headlight disconnected – and which sat by his bedside “with its wires dangling”. Are these too many connections - not for this reader, and for me the concept of connection, of the constant search for commonality, of the need for unceasing dialogue - is absolutely crucial to the solution for peace that underlies the message of Rami, Bassam and this novel. The quotes above all show that. Ultimately no connection - and the resulting increase in empathy and diminishing of enmity - can be too many. Something the book’s title (a countably infinite sided polyhedral) acknowledges. At one point McCann discusses “The Conference of the Birds” (a story incidentally which is the second crucial inspiration for Salman Rushdie’s “Quichotte”) – a story in which a long journey seeking enlightenment ends with the birds finding only their own reflections – an analogy I think for Rami and Bassam’s realisation that only recognising something of your own reflection in “the other” will ever really bring peace, as a bumper sticker on Rami’s motorcycle says “It will not be over until we talk” And a final example – a lengthy section discusses the journey of an Dublin born Irishman – Christopher Costigin in 1835, tracing the River Jordan from the Sea of Gaillee to the Sea of Salt (Dead Sea), a rather foolhardy and ultimately doomed attempt to explore the region. This novel, by another Dubliner, another attempt to explore and understand the land via journeys is in my view anything but a foolhardy and doomed attempt. One final comment on the structure of the book. The page numbering (and some comments I have seen from the author) almost imply that the book could be read backwards - which given its travel underpinning of the journey to/from the talk, would mean something of a chronologically backward reading. Actually I think that would be appropriate. One of the many points that the book makes is that to understand current day conflict you have to return to historical roots - this is as true in Israel (for example a crucial point in Bassam's journey towards peace is when he watches a holocaust film in jail and suddenly realises what drove the Jewish need for a homeland) as for the Irish conflict analogies the author (understandably given his background) frequently draws, as in this passage (imagined as George Mitchell's thoughts). Eight hundred years of history here. Thirty-five years of oppression there. A treaty here, a massacre there, a siege elsewhere. What happened in ’68. What supermarket was torched in ’74. What happened last week on the Shankill Road. The bombings in Birmingham. The shootings in Gibraltar. The links with Libya. The Battle of the Boyne. The march of Cromwell. Very highly recommended. There may be books in 2020 which give an equally brilliant literary treatment to an equally powerful story and with an equally important message. If so then 2020 will be a vintage year for literature. My thanks to Bloomsbury Publishing for an ARC via NetGalley

First 5 star read of 2020! Perhaps not perfect, but certainly brilliant, thought provoking, emotionally charged and timely. Apeirogon is not a linear narrative. Told in 1000 short segments, it tells the story of two men who have lost daughters to violence — one is Israeli and the other is Palestinian. This is based on a true story. Rami and Bassam are joined together in their grief and through the united project of finding a road to peace. The fragments of McCann’s brilliant narrative go back and forth in time, zeroing in on different parts of these characters’ lives and families, weaving in scraps of history, politics and nature and seemingly random anecdotes and thoughts. I can’t really do justice to the power of this book through my review. As I read some parts — especially those dealing with Rami and Bassam’s grief and their paths forward — I found myself holding my breath in awe. What was not perfect? At times, I found myself losing focus — this is a long book with many tangents. But this is a minor flaw. This won’t be for everyone. It’s not a straightforward narrative and it’s infused with a political message. But it really turned my crank. I think I’ve given a five star rating to every one of McCann’s books I’ve read. He takes huge chances with big payoffs. He writes like an angel — deceptive simplicity. Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for an opportunity to read an advance copy.

LONGLISTED FOR THE 2020 BOOKER PRIZE The last sentence of the fist chapter says it all. “Geography here is everything”. Geography here in this part of the world can get you killed. If you are in the wrong place at the wrong time, if you are in a zone where restrictions say you cannot go. Even by accident, yes, geography can get you killed. There are signs everywhere to help prevent this happening. Signs that are expected in some way to reduce the killings. Surely, it’s as simple as sticking to your designated areas. Do not cross the line, do not threaten the peace. Five hundred million birds arc the sky over the hills of Beit Jala every year. It almost seems they are mocking the people far below. Nothing restricts them, they migrate and fly where they must. If they are killed it will be by some accident, or maybe a predator. The one thing it will not be from, is from hate. Hate is reserved for us. Why are these people not allowed in this zone? Because we hate them? Why do you hate them? Because we have always hated them? This is the story of two men, one an Israeli, Rami Elhanan, and one a Palestinian, Bassam Aramin. This novel is about the conflict between two different peoples, two different cultures, two different religions, and the realisation, that in truth, there is no difference. Why does this conflict rage on, and the innocent suffer? Both men’s lives are shattered, irrevocably changed, when they lose a child. Bassam loses his beloved Abir when she, at the age of ten is hit in the back of the head by an Israeli rubber bullet, a form of ammunition that is supposed to be non-fatal. Rami lost his thirteen-year-old daughter, Smadar, killed by suicide bombers. Ten-year-old Abir, “Abir. From the ancient Arabic. The perfume. The fragrance of the flower”. Thirteen-year-old Smadar, “From the Song of Solomon. The grapevine. The opening of the flower.” Two different cultures, two different religions, two different peoples, two innocent lives lost forever. Two men living with the same one irreplaceable loss. In this part of the world, things like this happen every day, but this knowledge is no help to the men. There is nothing that can be said or done to assuage the men’s grief. The culprit, the source of the pain, the interminable, indelible hatred between the two cultures. The oppression of one over the other. McCann assails the reader with vast amounts of military information which he uses in contrast, juxtaposing theses passages amongst the narrative of the lives of the characters. It works well, emphasizing the normalcy of everyday life against these weapons and the destruction they disperse. There is no linear narrative, and there are no chapters. The novel is broken into small portions or paragraphs which all have something to do with the narrative, even if infinitesimally tiny. McCann keeps returning to the scenes of the young girl’s deaths, replaying them in the readers head until they dominate your thoughts, and the complete senseless tragedy of their deaths hits you. We read of their loves, their passions, their skills. Futures that a rubber bullet and a bomb erased. And yet these weapons are just objects. They have no emotion, feel no hatred. McCann also writes of the propaganda and misconception printed and reported by both sides. Both sides will use false information to justify their actions. Misconception and falsehoods that just lead to more violence, which again, leads to false reports and innuendo. It is a vicious circle, a snake eating its own tail. The genius of McCann’s writing can be found in paragraphs like this, “When, in 2009, Mitchell was appointed as special envoy to the Middle East, he had a sudden feeling that he was walking into the middle of another smashed jigsaw -PLO, JDL, DFLP, LEHI, PFLP, ALA, PIJ, CPT, IWPS, ICASH, AIC, AATW, EIJ, JTJ, ISM, AEI, NIF, ACRI, RHR, BDS, PACBI, BNC – only this time it is so much more difficult to find a straight edge with which to begin”. My review cannot do justice to what McCann has achieved with this novel. It’s a masterpiece. There is a particular passage from the novel which has stayed with me in which Phillipe Petit walks across a tightrope. He has purchased a pigeon which was meant to be a dove, but he could not find one, and he releases it halfway across the tightrope. Instead of the pigeon flying away, it lands on his head pecking him, then leaps onto his balance bar threatening a lethal fall. There was a festival for this walk, and it was called the “Bridge of Peace”. Is McCann using this passage to represent the peace process in the Middle East and the difficulty of its sustainability? I think he is. The wire is also on an incline. The steep road of the peace process perhaps? Petit, had no safety net, and despite the pigeon, despite the fear, he made it. 5 Stars!!! There is a wonderful interview with Colum on youtube talking about Apeirogon. Both Bassam and Rami are present. It is really worth watching, link here - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9KDGK...

"They seemed the most unlikely of friends, even beyond the obvious, one being Israeli, the other Palestinian." Rami and Bassam's story is humbling. Centered around the Israeli-Palestine conflict, Rami and Bassam relive the day that each of their daughters died at the hands of a oppressive barrier that has effected more than just a perimeter. After each lose a daughter to violence, they learn to find solace in their grief and overcome the boundaries defined by their government. "...everyone knew at least one child who was killed, and most of us knew several. You get used to it, sometimes you think it's normal." It is a somber read with graphic gory scenes from beginning to end. Rami and Bassam's recollections and revelations were heartbreaking. Just when I thought my heart couldn't break anymore, it did. But the power and value behind the words is undeniable. (The speeches they gave on pages 217-240 were unequivocal and would provide great dialogue for panel discussions and Socratic Seminars.) There are only sections; most sections are about a paragraph in length, some sections are one sentence, some might be a small photo, though other sections are the length of a regular chapter. With a total of 1,001 sections, there are no chapters or parts. It is a blend of fiction and nonfiction. For example: the story will be describing the anniversary of the time of deaths for the girls, so the very next section then discusses how the Greeks measured time in antiquity. Or, another example: there is a flashback when Salwa and her daughter are watching Arabian horses, so the next section goes into facts about Arabian horses. The fiction and nonfiction weave back and forth relying on each other. It jigsaws, using the previous section to build on the next section. The sequence is ornamental but blends cohesively. I loved the book. It changed the way I think. When I wasn't reading it, I was thinking about it. It had a profound impact on me. I enjoyed learning through their story. “Truth is, you can’t have a humane occupation. It just doesn’t exist. It can’t. It’s about control.” I won an advance reader's edition in a Goodread's Giveaway. Thank you Random House! Read The Guardian's Review for Apeirogon.

5★ updated links and some info November 2023) “Apeirogon: a shape with a countably infinite number of sides. . . . Bassam and Rami gradually came to understand that they would use the force of their grief as a weapon.” If there are too many sides to count, how would you know which one is yours and which one is ‘opposite’? If you choose and decide, what will you do about it? Two fathers, one Palestinian, one Israeli, each lost young daughters in the conflict in the Middle East. “My name is Rami Elhanan. I am the father of Smadar. I am a sixty-seven- year- old graphic designer, an Israeli, a Jew, a seventh- generation Jerusalemite. Also what you might call a graduate of the Holocaust.” Smadar was killed in a suicide bombing in Jerusalem in 1997. She was shopping for books. She was 13 years old. “Language was the sharpest weapon. It was a mighty thing. He wanted to wield it. He needed to be careful. My name is Bassam Aramin. I am the father of Abir. Everything else rose out of that.” Abir was born that year and was killed by a rubber bullet in 2007. She was coming out of a shop with sweets. She was ten years old. The true story of Bassam and Rami and their daughters has been well documented, but I doubt there is anything that begins to describe it as well as this account. McCann has taken interviews and transcripts to weave together the personal, the politics, and the history of the families and the conflict. He has used a design loosely based on the famous Thousand and One Nights, Or Tales of the Arabian nights, which was a favourite book of Smadar’s, an Israeli. Chapters are sometimes only a few words or a paragraph, or several pages long. Occasionally, there is only a photograph or illustration. Chapters 69 and 70 They are numbered from 1-500, with a mix of events and stories, flashbacks and history. When we get to number 500, we jump to Chapter 1001 where we find a single, page-long sentence about stories and connections and listeners around the world, beginning: “Once upon a time, and not so long ago, and not so far away . . .” and ending with: “. . .our memories imploding, our synapses skipping, in the gathering dark, remembering, while listening, all of those stories that are yet to be told.” I think perhaps he’s reminding us that we are still creating stories, those yet to be told, and maybe suggesting we be careful what stories we tell. After chapter 1001, the numbering works its way back from 500-1. The original Arabian Nights was said to comprise the stories that Shahrazad (or Scheherazade) told each night to delay her execution by the king. She apparently ended each night with only part of a new story told, so the king would keep her alive to finish it the following night. The original cliffhanger? The chapters continue to explain how the men connected and how they came to work together. Stories matter. Bassam began to study the Holocaust, working on a master’s thesis titled ‘The Holocaust: The Use and Abuse of History and Memory’. Bassam said he used the force of his grief to speak to people. People were confused, especially when he was in England, studying. “No one knew quite where he stood on the issues. He talked around corners. It was part of his talent. He quoted poems. He seemed to wear them as concealment. A rhyme to cover the wounds. ‘A pessimist of the intellect, an optimist of the will. What is closer to my heart, a soldier from my country or one of my enemy’s poets?’ So many times people would come up to him after his lectures and say that they wished there were more like him. What do you mean? he would ask.” I think people expect everyone to take sides. Are you left or right, east or west, north or south, up or down, black or white? Of course, we are all many-sided and overlap with everyone else. I’m not sure how many sides of an apeirogon I would find myself on, but I know I would keep slipping from one to another. I like to think that I don’t lack commitment so much as I’d rather have understanding. The quotation McCann gives in the beginning says it better. “We live our lives, suggested Rilke, in widening circles that reach out across the entire expanse.” I don't know if Combatants for Peace is still going in the same form, but this was on their original website. “Combatants for Peace is a grassroots movement of Israelis and Palestinians, working together to end the occupation and bring peace, freedom and dignity to both peoples. It is the only organization worldwide that was founded by former fighters on both sides of an active conflict. The movement began in 2005 and was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2017 & 2018.” There is a wonderful article about the two men here. I hope you can read it. https://www.smh.com.au/lifestyle/life... The Parents Circle has a lot of information. https://www.theparentscircle.org/en/p... This page is about support in the US. https://parentscirclefriends.org/media/ This book is written simply and presented in an format that is easy to read. It should be required reading so we’d all learn more about ‘sides’. My hope (and theirs, I assume) is that story by story, day by day, we can delay, put off, prevent violence. Longlisted for the 2020 Booker Prize, but I think it should have made at least the Short List! (Links updated November 2023 during the current dreadful violence) See and hear them in October 2023 here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zd8uO...

Oh, this beautiful, heartbreaking, astonishing book. There are not superlatives adequate in quality or quantity that do justice to a work of art that both opens the mind and fills the heart. Inspired by the real-life friendship between a Palestinian, Bassam Aramin, and an Israeli, Rami Elhanan, Apeirogon is a shimmering study of love and war. Each man lost a beloved daughter in the conflict that has torn apart this region since 1948. Smadar Elhanan was thirteen in 1997 when a suicide bomber carried out his mission as the teenager was out shopping with friends; ten years later, Abir Aramin was shot in the back of the head by a teenaged member of the Israeli army. Abir was ten years old. The fathers meet in a bereavement group that seeks peace through unity of opposing sides. Bassam, who had spent seven years in an Israeli prison, goes on to achieve a Masters degree in Holocaust Studies; Rami sets aside his apathy and comfortable life to become a leading Jewish voice advocating for the end of Israeli Occupation of the West Bank. The friendship that forms between these two men, one Arab, one Jew, within the novel, and in real life, embodies all the hope that the world can indeed change. I would love to have heard more from the girls' mothers, but theirs are not voices McCann chose to amplify. Perhaps in another story he will give voice to the women and girls. Apeirogon is told in 1,001 chapters, in homage to the classic lore of 1,001 Arabian Nights. Some chapters are one sentence long; others spool out over pages. This transcends literary device; it's a way to absorb a massive amount of information, most of it factual, and the weight of emotion revealed in the stories of the Aramin and Elhanan families. There are gorgeous asides about migratory birds, the high-wire walker Philippe Petit, a weird, gross recounting of François Mitterrand's last meal, the astonishment of mathematics, and of course, geometric shapes. An apeirogon is a polygon with an infinite yet countable number of sides. This multi-faceted novel brilliantly achieves what fiction is often called to do: present a story that causes us to think about and feel what lies deep beyond the headlines and the history books. One of the year's best.

I chose to listen to Colum McCann’s “Apeirogon” which is narrated by him. I felt that I wanted to get his voice interpretation of his own work. The narrator always adds a layer to a story and McCann’s voice is melodic at times, emotional, and captivating. This will be on many “Best of 2020” lists. This is a 1001 chapter novel that centers around the organization “Combatants for Peace” which is an organization for peace in the occupation of Palestine and “The Parent’s Circle-Families Forum” which is a family centered organization for the Israelis and Palestinians who have lost family members due to violence in the Palestine. Well, it’s centered around the insane violence and the politics behind it. One cannot review it adequately. Listening to his story is a heartfelt education on the frustration, fear, anger surrounding the never-ending conflict. McCann spent four years going back to the area to do research for his novel. Listening to him tell the stories of the victims, the parents and family members is moving. McCann brings it to life and makes it real for those who do not live in that area. I highly recommend this novel. The personal stories make this an emotional and moving read.

Israeli Rami Elhanan and Palestinian Bassam Aramin have both lost their beloved daughters in the seemingly unending warzone of disputed land in Israel. Colum McCann takes his title, Apeirogon, from a multifaceted shape of countable infinite sides, which still makes my brain hurt just thinking about. But repeatedly it reverts to the day in 1997 when Rami's daughter 13-year-old Smadar is killed by suicide (or homicide if you will) bombers, and 10 years later when 10-year-old Abir is felled by a rubber bullet. We learn about these methods of terror, their genesis, the effect on a normal family and how these two grieving fathers become well known travelling the world in an effort to promote peace. But there is so much more. McCann has a distinct style of writing, weaving disparate stories together into a patchwork, which forms a quilt in the mind. Here he is at his most ambitious, incorporating so many elements, such an astounding feat. Birds overhead, their migratory patterns as well as the roles they play for humans, and even Philipe Petit in his walk across the Hinnom Valley. McCann even gives a patch to his native Ireland, which usually plays a part in any of his works. Mitterand, the divisive wall, even Banksy. It's long and there's quite a bit of repetition, but never boring and forever haunting.

95. Apeirogon: a shape with a countably infinite number of sides. 94. From the Greek, apeiron: to be boundless, to be endless. Alongside the Indo-European root of per: to try, to risk. 93. As a whole, an apeirogon approaches the shape of a circle, but a magnified view of a small piece appears to be a straight line. One can finally arrive at any point within the whole. Anywhere is reachable. Anything is possible. At the same time, the entirety of the shape is complicit. Sometimes it feels like forces outside of myself conspire to put the right book into my hand at the right time: Recently returned from a trip to Israel – where my long-held empathy towards the Jewish people and belief in the absolute necessity for them to have been granted a homeland in the wake of the Holocaust were reaffirmed – and I found myself in possession of an ARC of Colum McCann's latest, Apeirogon, and what a surprise it was to me to see that it is based on the real-life friendship of an Israeli and a Palestinian man. Thinking that I already knew something of the conflict between their peoples, I nonetheless find myself having been changed by the reading of this book. Eye-opening, powerful, literary, heartbreaking: I challenge anyone to not be moved; to be fundamentally changed. (Note: I read an ARC and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.) One Thousand and One Nights: a ruse for life in the face of death. To begin with this book's format: I don't know if you can really call this a “novel”; I'd say literary nonfiction. The narrative concerns the aforementioned friends – Bassam and Rami – and slowly reveals their stories, interspersed with facts and plenty of seemingly unrelated information (there is much on migratory birds, which is further spooled out to include everything from François Mitterand eating ortolan [songbirds drowned in brandy] as his last meal, to the latest craze for diamond-encrusted falcon hoods among Arabian Princes). The book is divided into 1001 parts (chapters count up from 1-499, the middle – between a pair of blacked-out pages – contains the transcribed speeches that Bassam and Rami deliver around the world, each numbered as 500, and then the chapters count down again to 1). So too is One Thousand and One Nights referenced more than once (from Sir Richard Burton originally translating it into English as he impersonated an Arab in the Middle East, to the story of Wael Zuaiter – a poet who was assassinated by Mossad in retribution for the killing of Israeli athletes at the 1972 Munich Olympics, and whose copy of One Thousand and One Nights trapped one of the thirteen bullets fired at his body), and much like the apeirogon itself, these countless facets serve to demonstrate both unrecognised interconnectedness and the complexity that overwhelms the human mind. However, while I was interested in everything that McCann included, and while I appreciated his efforts to bring his keen writing skills to such a worthy story, I think that the story itself is too important to risk turning away the widest readership possible with highfalutin' literary flourishes (but I hope to be wrong about that; I do hope this book finds its audience). If you divide death by life you will find a circle. And so to their stories: Rami Elhanan, like all Israelis, had served his obligatory military term as a youth – he served during a time of war and killed impassionately, reflexively – and then wanted to just live a normal life; working at graphic design, enjoying his quiet home with his wife and four children. But in 1997, Rami's 13-year-old daughter Smadar was killed by a Palestinian suicide bomber as she walked down a Jerusalem street with her friends, and Rami's first response was one of hatred and a thirst for revenge. This ate at him for a year, until a rabbi invited Rami to the Parent's Circle – a support group for both Israeli and Palestinian parents who had lost children – and while Rami only went reluctantly, when he first saw a Palestinian woman clutching a photograph of her own dead daughter, he realised that it was the first time in his life he had thought of an individual Palestinian person as a fellow human being. His hatred and vengeance disappeared and he eventually sought out another organization, Combatants for Peace, where he would meet Bassam Aramin; a Palestinian man who would teach Rami what life is like in Occupied Palestine. An excerpt from the speech that Rami now travels the world to deliver to wide-ranging audiences: We must end the Occupation and then sit down to figure it out. One state, two states, it doesn't matter at this stage – just end the Occupation, and then begin the process of rebuilding the possibility of dignity for all of us. It's as clear to me as the noonday sun. There are times, sure, when I would like to be wrong. It would be so much easier. If I found another path I would have taken it – I don't know, revenge, cynicism, hatred, murder. But I am a Jew. I have great love for my culture and my people and I know that ruling and oppressing and occupying is not Jewish. Being Jewish means that you respect justice and fairness. No people can rule another people and obtain security and peace for themselves. The Occupation is neither just nor sustainable. And being against the Occupation is, in no way, a form of anti-Semitism. Bassam grew up in an area of the West Bank controlled by Israeli security forces – subject to house raids, humiliating checkpoints, and patrolling armed soldiers. Bassam and his friends liked to hoist the (outlawed) Palestinian flag at their school, and when soldiers would come to take it down, throw rocks and run away. As a teenager, Bassam and his friends found some grenades, and when then threw those (defective) explosives at a convoy, the seventeen-year-old found himself labelled a terrorist and sentenced to prison for seven years. In prison, Bassam became at first more radical, but while watching a documentary on the Holocaust (which he had been taught had never happened), Bassam found himself thinking of the Jewish people as fellow human beings for the first time in his life. Upon release he cofounded Combatants for Peace, and two years after meeting Rami for the first time, Bassam also became a member of an organisation no one wants to join – the Parents Circle – when his own ten-year-old daughter, Abir, was shot in the back of the skull with a rubber bullet, fired by a jumpy eighteen-year-old Israeli soldier from the back of an armoured jeep, as Abir bought candy bracelets for herself and her sister. Joined forever in grief, the two fathers now meet several times a week and the following is an excerpt from the speech Bassam delivers alongside “his brother” Rami: We started Combatants for Peace. There, at the Everest Hotel, up the road, near the settlement, by the Wall, two minutes away. Rumi, the poet, the Sufi, said something that I will never forget: Beyond right and wrong there is a field. I'll meet you there. We were right and we were wrong and we met in the field. We realized that we wanted to kill each other to achieve the same thing, peace and security. Imagine that, what an irony, it's crazy. We sat in the Everest Hotel and talked about ending the Occupation. Even that word occupation makes most Israelis tremble. Of course, each one had a different point of view – they are the occupiers and we are the ones under occupation, so it looks different to them. But in the end we were all dying, we were killing each other, over and over. We needed to know each other instead. This is the center of gravity, this is where it all comes down. There will be security for everyone when we have justice for everyone. As I have always said, it's a disaster to discover the humanity of your enemy, his nobility, because then he is not your enemy anymore, he just can't be. In a very useful device, McCann narrates – intermittently, over the course of the entire book – the experiences of Rami and Bassam driving back to their respective homes after one of their meetings in the West Bank. Rami, as an Israeli, isn't really supposed to be here, but he is able to race his motorbike along the highway towards Jerusalem without issue, knowing there isn't much at stake if he does get caught. On the other hand, Bassam is required to pass through at least one checkpoint on his way home, and he knows that he is subject to questioning, detention, or arrest every time he leaves or returns to Jericho. There are stories about the IDF blowing up the cave (a very comfortable and suitable home) where his family resided outside Hebron when he was a child, Bassam's wife and terrified children being subjected to a humiliating strip search in front of each other, people being forced to stand under the desert sun for hours while the Israeli border guard lounges on a beach chair and cracks open soda for himself from a nearby cooler. From Bassam's speech: The Occupation exists in every aspect of your life, an exhaustion and a bitterness that nobody outside it really understands. It deprives you of tomorrow. It stops you from going to the market, to the hospital, to the beach, to the sea. You can't walk, you can't drive, you can't pick an olive from your own tree which is on the other side of the barbed wire. You can't even look up in the sky. They have their planes up there. They own the air above and the ground below. You need a permit to sow your land. Your door is kicked in, your house is taken over, they put their feet on your chairs. Your seven-year-old is picked up and interrogated. You can't imagine it. Seven years old. Be a father for a minute and think of your seven-year-old being picked up in front of your eyes. Blind-folded. Zip ties put on his wrists. Taken to Military Court in Ofer. Most Israelis don't even know this happens. They're not allowed to see. Their newspapers, their televisions, they don't tell them these things. They can't travel in the West Bank. They have no idea how we are living. But it happens every day. Every single day. Naturally, if Israelis don't know it's like this, I certainly didn't know; I didn't see this, I wasn't told about it. Rami and Bassam's stories are so heart-breaking: of course it's the abuse of power by Israeli soldiers, just like Rami had been, that led a Palestinian suicide-bomber to make the ultimate protest; and of course, it's because of youth like Bassam had once been – throwing rocks and then grenades at Israeli soldiers – that made an eighteen-year-old jumpy enough to fire towards schoolchildren. It's a self-perpetuating cycle, but one that Rami and Bassam both think can be stopped: just end the Occupation (such a loaded word) and work out the details later; one-state, two-state, right-of-return, settlements, nothing matters until after children stop being killed. Hard to argue with that. Again, I don't know if this adds up to a novel, but Colm McCann has crafted something really special and essential here. I do hope it's widely read; that things change for Israel and Palestine.

"We may have built up our wall, but the wall is really in our minds, and every day I try to put a crack in it." I have no words for this novel, it left me speechless. The amount of pain a human can endure is unfathomable, however, McCann gives us a glimpse of how it feels like to lose a child in a part of the world where so many parents have lost their children because of the same reason: the Middle East conflict. We are following Bassam and Rami who have both individually lost their daughters through several years. Bassam lost his child because of a rubber that was fired by an Israeli soldier and Rami experienced the same loss years before when his daughter died because of a suicide bomber attack. Because of this, they did not seek revenge, they chose peace. Bassam and Rami both realized that these tragic deaths are going to continue if the conflict between Palestinians and Israelis remains unresolved. That is the reason why Bassam and Rami give interviews and talks to show the significance of communication to achieve peace and stop the killing. This book has a brilliant structure. It has 1001 chapters, just like the book "1001 Nights". The story is fragmented. We are jumping between time and place. Many concepts and anecdotes are being introduced which at first glance do not seem to fit into the story but in the end, it all comes together: an extraordinary mosaic. The author's research work must be appreciated. Rarely have I learned so much from a book (whether non-fiction or fiction). The book is a game of references and it's particularly enjoyable when you research terms, places, and people along the way. One could say that this book speaks in favor of Palestinians. This is wrong. The suffering of thousands of people in Gaza and the expanding colonization of the West Bank shows that we are dealing with a clear asymmetry here, which should also be named as such. The criticism of Israel is then first and foremost a criticism of the state and not of the Jewish citizens. I think it is important not to think in terms of dichotomies such as Palestinians versus Jews. That is dangerous. Because the suicide bombers and other terrorist groups, as well as the Israeli state, also think this way, which in all cases costs the lives of innocent civilians. In my opinion, the book speaks more about a fraternization between Palestinians and Israelis, who formulate a critique of the resistance of the Palestinians and the Israeli state on this basis. This book speaks in favor of universalist human rights. McCann wants to challenge the reader by leaving dichotomous thinking. This book does not exist to reinforce the antagonism between Palestinians and Israelis. It tries to find similarities and possibilities of dialogue. It's a truly humanist work of art.

Apeirogon is remarkable. A no-brainer 5 for me and highlight read for 2020 and indeed the past few years. Intelligent and creative, yet at same time deeply, sensitively moving. Longlisted for the 2020 Booker but not shortlisted, which for me is a travesty. Apeirogon has an intriguing structure of 1001 (a homage to the Arabian Nights) numbered and varying length entries. Some of the entries are minimalist, a sentence or two, others a series of paragraphs, all offering different insights, tones, experiences, reflections, histories, lives on the political conflicts between Israel and Palestine. I learnt a lot and felt a lot reading this. Much of the book is filtered through the real experiences of two men: Bassam Aramin (Palestinian) and Rami Elhanan (Israeli) who both lost young daughters to the violence of the conflict. Abir Aramin, ten years old, was killed by a rubber bullet fired by an Israeli soldier; Smadar Elhanan (a decade earlier), victim of a suicide-bombing attack: one passage, 15 "The bullet that killed Abir travelled fifteen metres through the air before it smashed into the back of her head, crushing the bones in her skull like those of a tiny ortolan. She had gone to the shop to buy sweets." This account of the men's grief and loss is incredibly powerful, including how they become close friends and turn their grief into weapons for peace, understanding and even reconciliation. The eliptical passages cover topics as diverse as architecture, landscape and nature, history of the region in terms of cultures, religions, politics, neighbourhoods and families ("Geography is everything"); the Holocaust; the 1948 Palenstinian Nakba; weaved through are wonderful orthinological depictions of birds and flight and migrations (these images work so well metaphorically and symbolically). There are somewhat meta sections focusing on the writing of Borges, Arabic storytelling including One Thousand and One Nights and John Cage's and Philip Glass's musical compositions, to all provide reflections on Apeirogon's structure as art. Indeed, some of the passages on architecture also do this in a somewhat Sebaldian sense perhaps. Accounts of Palestinian daily life on the streets of West Bank towns, the brutal depiction of Bassam's years in an Israeli jail, I could go on. These extracts resonate and come together in intriguing and provocative ways: "Apeirogon: a shape with a countably infinite number of sides"; "One can finally arrive at any point within the whole. Anywhere is reachable. Anything is possible, even the seemingly impossible. At the same time, one can arrive anywhere within an apeirogon and the entirety of the shape is complicit in the journey, even thst which has not yet been imagined". In the middle of the book these two infinite sides of Rami Elhanan and Bassam Aramin come together (back to back and separated by an 'empty' page). Lengthy first person accounts of their experience, their grief, commence: "My name is Rami Elhanan. I am the father of Smadar. I am a sixty-seven-year-old graphic designer, an Israeli, a Jew, a seventh-generation Jerusalemite. Also what you might call a graduate of the Holocaust." And "My name is Bassam Aramin, I am the father of Abir. I'm a Palestinian, a Muslim, an Arab. I'm forty -eight years old. I've lived many places - a cave near Hebron, seven years in prison, then an Apartment in Anata, and these days in a house with a garden in Jericho near the Dead Sea". As readers we are asked "... to listen to the stories of Bassam and Rami, and to find within their stories another story, a song of songs, discovering themselves - you and me - in the stone tiled chapel where we sit for hours, eager, hopeless, buoyed, confused, cynical, complicit, silent, our memories imploding, our synapses skipping, in the gathering dark, remembering, while listening, all of those stories that are yet to be told". This is a courageous and beautifully crafted work. It isn't a traditional novel, it doesn't really have a plot, it does I think have a fascinating narrative structure. The characters are real people who have lived these experiences, they are forcefully speaking to us from the page in first person, yet also filtered through third-person passages. This all rethinks ambitiously and bravely what the novel and storytelling are. I've read some of the critiques focusing on problems with an Irish writer who lives in USA telling these stories. These are very real questions. But I also think the book manages to be sensitive to and even make space for such questions and concerns. This is tightrope walking as art (which yes, also figures in the book as there are passages on Philippe Petit's 1987 highwire 1000 feet walk between Jerusalem's Arab and Jewish quarters ) so as to carefully handle the challenge of representing such a conflict and the various sides to it in the novelistic form. This links also to McCann's earlier 2009 novel Let the Great World Spin. An aside, Philip Glass's music compositions are mentioned in passages and his Glassworks features in a 1984 documentary on Petit's Worldtrade Centre stunt. Lots of oblique references and connections like this throughout Apeirogon. I will very likely reread this one as it is so rewarding. It's a masterpiece. For me it works as a deeply moving, politically charged requiem of grief. A memorial for our times. Interestingly another of the big novels of 2020, Maggie O'Farrell's Hamnet (winner of the 2020 Women's Prize for Fiction) also focuses on the theme and experience of grief. Grieving and the dimensions of it I think also make this an important novel for our moment and our time. There is also hope that is found in the very midst of the grief and the terrible costs of these seemingly irresolvable conflicts. I also highly recommend Marchpane's review of this one: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... I adore Marchpane's description of the novel as a mosaic but also as "a hushed, spacious room—part history museum, part art installation, part shrine—with 1001 tiny exhibits. " This definitely is the feel and tone of the book and its been so special spending time in its pages, contemplating the finely wrought, exquisitely crafted exhibits that are the various extracts.

An unique presentation of a heartbreaking story, with the Israeli/Palestinian conflict as a backdrop, that will open your eyes and touch your heart. SUMMARY These two men are the most unlikely of friends. Rami Elhanan is Israeli, a Jew and the father of a thirteen-year-old daughter. Bassam Aramin is Palestinian, a Muslin, an Arab and the father of a ten-year-old daughter. These two fathers lives intersect when they became members of the Parents Circle, the kind of club no parent wants to be a member of. In 1997, Rami’s daughter, Smadar, becomes the victim of three Palestinian suicide bombers in a Jerusalem shopping area. A decade later, in 2007. Bassam’s daughter, Abir is killed by a rubber bullet by a Israeli border guard, just after purchasing a candy bracelet at a grocery store down the street from her Palestinian school. Rami and Bassam had been raised to hate one another. And yet, when they heard each other’s stories, they recognized that their tremendous loss connects them. They now work together using their grief and their stories as a path for seeking international peace. “When you divide death by life you find a circle.” REVIEW The term “apeirogon” refers to a shape with a countable but infinite number of sides, which is a perfect title for this inventive and thought-provoking book. The story is nonlinear and is probably unlike anything you’ve ever read before, but well worth the read. APEIROGON is creatively divided into 1,001 informative fragments numbered 1 to 500 and then descending from 500 back to 1. The fragments are seemingly random and include not just the fictional account of Rami and Bassam’s story, but also references to birds, literature, philosophy, music and art. But it’s all connected, like an apeirogon. It’s an enlightening and thought-provoking read, one you don’t want to miss. The writing will open your eyes and touch your heart. Author COLUM McCANN met the two men in 2015 when he visited Israel and Palestine. Their talk took his breath away. This book, will take your breath away as well. McCann has woven an intriguing story full of facts, memories, speculation and imagination. The movie rights for this book have already been purchased by Steven Spielberg. McCann is an Irish writer of literary fiction. He was born in Dublin, Ireland and now lives in New York. He is distinguished professor of creative writing at Hunter College and has written six novels including TransAtlantic and the National Book Award winning Let the Great World Spin. Thanks to Netgalley and Random House for an advance reading copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. “Yesterday I was clever, so I wanted to change the world. Today I am wise, so I have begun to change myself.” -Rumi Publisher Random House Published February 25, 2020 Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

Just a breathtaking book. It starts with two protagonists whose twinned story is at once so heartbreaking and so inspiring, and whose friendship is maybe the most hopeful thing you'll read about all year. That's enough to make any book worthwhile, but in McCann's gifted and erudite hands, which draw connections between birds, music, architecture, history and much more (including some recurring McCann "characters" like Philippe Petit and George Mitchell), this shape of countably infinite sides becomes a mesmerizing, thought provoking, heartwrenching odyssey that I at least didn't want to end. Usually, I can barely bear to read about the Israeli/Palestinian conflict because it seems so hopeless and like things are getting worse rather than better. This book doesn't shy away from unpacking all the bad, but gives us a sliver of good in Bassam and Rami. It deeply affected me. Might be the best book I've read this year (top 3 for sure).

Unlike anything I've read before. It could be argued that Apeirogon isn't really a novel (you'll have to read the book to understand what I mean). Calling this historical fiction doesn't seem right either. It's a fusion of fiction and fact. McCann used this platform to tell two men's story. And to "educate" us on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the Occupation crisis. That summary doesn't seem right either. McCann lays out the story without any bias, political leanings or choosing sides. It's a real-life story of loss, grief, healing, and human connection. Sidenote/Fun fact: Let the Great World Spin, one of McCann's earlier books, is one of my favorite novels of all time, and its influence is deeply felt in Apeirogon. The same real-life figure (and character) plays a pivotal role in both books, therefore making a cosmic connection between both works.

A wonderful web of tangents. It had the brain fizz effect I very much enjoy in novels: making me an active reader who’s fully engaged in search of connections and patterns.

Apeirogon by Colum McCann is a mosaic of vignettes focusing on the Palestine-Israel conflict. The 1001 vignettes or chapters vary in length from one sentence to several pages. They tell the true story of the tragic deaths of two girls and how their real-life fathers crossed paths to forge an unlikely friendship. Their common grief acts as the transformative catalyst. They become vocal advocates for an end to the occupation through dialogue as the means to resolve the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. In 1997, Smadar, a thirteen-year-old Israeli girl, is killed when three suicide bombers blow themselves up in Jerusalem. Rami Elhanan, her father, is an Israeli Jew. About ten years later, Abir, a ten-year-old Palestinian girl, is shot dead with a rubber bullet by an Israeli border guard in East Jerusalem. She had crossed the street from school to buy some candy. Bassam Aramin, her father, is a Palestinian Muslim. The story of Smadar and Abir, and of Rami and Bassam unfolds intermittently in a non-linear sequence of fragments. The gruesome details of the deaths of the young girls, their back stories, and the back stories of their families are revealed gradually and sandwiched between elements of fiction, quotations, anecdotes, insights, commentary, historical and religious explorations, information on bird migration, the Irish conflict, and various other miscellany. The novel is replete with symbolism that reverberates throughout the sections. The different threads, some of which initially appear as only tangentially connected to the main narrative, are stitched together, dropped, only to be picked up later. The sections are numbered from 1 to 500, a middle section numbered 1001, followed by sections that reverse the numbering by beginning with 500 and concluding with section 1. The motion is circular and ends where it began with the wording of the final sentence varying slightly from the very first sentence. We are brought full circle. This circular structure reflects the activity of both fathers as are they are repeatedly called upon to tell and re-tell the story of their daughters. They dip in and out of the story, never willing or able to put it behind them. The fragmentary nature of the narrative also effectively replicates the trauma of losing a child since the pain of loss imposes itself on one’s consciousness, unbidden, interrupting the flow of thought at any time of the day or night. This is not an easy novel to read. It contains graphic descriptions of torture, violence, and dismembered bodies. The heart-wrenching content, especially that which details the youth, innocence, and lost potential of the young girls, coupled with the fragmentary nature of the format make it a challenging read. Through its hybrid form and content, McCann has produced a multi-faceted perspective, an apeirogon with a countable infinite number of sides, which explores the issues surrounding one of the world’s most complex political conflicts. As Rami and Bassam demonstrate, although dialogue alone is insufficient in resolving the conflict, it is an essential first step in eradicating the de-humanization of the other, in generating empathy, and in dismantling the structural barriers which fuel the conflict. A compelling novel that defies easy categorization but which leaves a lasting and profound impact. Very highly recommended. My book reviews are also available at www.tamaraaghajaffar.com

Rachel Kushner – I’m very pleased to make your acquaintance! This is so good, guys! I picked up a discarded copy of The Flamethrowers a few months ago (why the hell was it discarded, I now ask myself!), but hadn’t yet read it. Then this one passed through my hands, and I couldn’t resist – the title, the cover, and the jacket blurb hooked me. The first page had me checking it out and bringing it home. “Neanderthals were prone to depression, he said. He said they were prone to addiction, too, and especially smoking.” I had to know why a novel about a thirty-four-year-old woman, an American secret agent sent to a rural commune in France, would begin with this peculiar statement about Neanderthals. Well, to be honest, I sort of guessed the link between this area of France and its prehistoric caves and the Neanderthals, thanks to Beebe Bahrami, author of Café Neandertal. However, I was super curious about Kushner’s angle by bringing up the Neanderthals in the very first sentence. If you haven’t guessed already, I’ll warn you now: this is not a typical spy thriller. But… it had me turning the pages and itching to get back to it whenever I had to set it aside. And it’s funny too, in a gloriously subtle but snarky kind of way. After reading that first sentence, nearly 150 pages later the narrator, “Sadie”, tells us this: “I used to smoke, perhaps on account of some percentage of Neanderthal in my lineage, although I’ll never know what percentage, not wanting my DNA in any database.” If weird little things like that make you snicker too, then we just might get along. I’m not really explaining the point of the Neanderthals here though. See, Sadie has been sent by some shadowy private sector group to infiltrate an organization of rural activists, the Moulinards, in the region to find proof of sabotage and further plans of possible subversions. Bruno Lacombe, through email communications, is a mentor to the group. Sadie, in turn, has access to these communications. Bruno Lacombe is thoroughly immersed, perhaps obsessed is a better term, with the Neanderthals and the ancient way of life. He blames Homo sapiens for the mess we are in. Lately, it’s not too hard to get on board with his way of thinking. “The use of fire for harm instead of good seems to have taken hold, suspiciously, and damningly, just as the Neanderthals began to disappear and Homo sapiens rose up, an interglacial bully who shaped the world we’re stuck with.” Another word about Sadie. She doesn’t give a shit about anyone, except for Sadie. And that’s what makes her such a fantastic character. I mean, we all care, arguably in varying degrees, for our fellow humans. But don’t you sometimes wish – admit it! – that you could care just a little bit less?! Okay, perhaps I’d just like to be Sadie for a day. Or two. She’s the sort of person you might also run into in a Marcy Dermansky or Ottessa Moshfegh novel, minus the undercover agent skills. She has no background that we know of, besides some previous undercover work. She has no friends or loved ones – except for those she feigns an interest in. Sex is used to get what she needs – usually more information. She’s messy, she has “conventional” looks, she likes her beer a bit too much perhaps, and she’s irreverent. “I try to be respectful of other women’s shortcomings. The dumb luck of good looks is akin to the fact that it may very well rain on the sea in times of drought, and will not rain where it is needed, on a farmer’s crops: grace is random, dumb and random and even a bit violent, in giving to the one who already has rather a lot, and taking from the one who has been denied, who doesn’t have a pot to piss in.” We learn a bit more about Sadie through her very remote connection to Bruno. She gets closer to him by reading his thoughts on mankind and the stars and the underground world of caves. Her preoccupation with Bruno’s emails allows us to see under her skin, if that’s even possible. I, for one, caught a glimpse of a beating heart. As an aside, I pay little attention to prize nominees, or winners for that matter. I hadn’t been aware this was on the Booker longlist when I brought it home. And it’s a complete coincidence that I’m writing this right after the shortlist was announced! In fact, I was mid-review when I scrolled through Instagram and saw the post. Read this. It’s intelligent, invigorating, funny, and refreshingly different from the usual reading fare. “Coincidence is a term you choose for the good work it does to cover what some part of you knows, but a part that cannot be allowed to speak. The coincidence, as an explanation for things that are mysteriously aligned, is hiding what is not a coincidence and is instead a plot.”

Forty thousand years too late, Neanderthals are finally getting a chance to stand erectus and take a bow. Apparently, our uni-browed cousins weren’t dumb jerks like your brother-in-law, dragging their hairy knuckles across the den. Not at all. According to “Kindred” (2020), a fascinating book by archaeologist Rebecca Wragg Sykes, Neanderthals used tools, made clothes and may have told stories and honored their dead. “They were state-of-the-art humans,” Sykes writes, “just of a different sort.” In the 19th century, it felt easy to look down on these genetic neighbors of a different sort. After all, as the result of prehistory’s greatest mano-a-manoish battle, we won the deed to planet Earth. But in the early 21st century, Homo sapiens have lost their swagger. For all the wonders of modern culture — driverless cars, CRISPR, Taylor Swift — many of us fear we’re on the cusp of burning ourselves up. Could the humble Neanderthals, who still lurk in our DNA, hold the secret to a better life? For Rachel Kushner’s new novel, “Creation Lake,” that question is the woolly mammoth in the room. Since her 2008 debut, “Telex from Cuba,” Kushner has proved to be one of America’s most intellectually curious novelists, capable of interrogating radical political and cultural ideas in strikingly original plots. Her terrific 2013 novel, “The Flamethrowers,” roared through the world of avant-garde art. And now, “Creation Lake” — longlisted for the Booker Prize — bears all the hallmarks of her inquisitive mind and creative daring. The first satisfying surprise is that Kushner has designed this story as a spy thriller laced with a killer dose of deadpan wit. The narrator, currently using the nom de guerre Sadie Smith, is an agent of chaos. Fired from her job with U.S. intelligence, she’s now working for the highest bidder. “It was a relief to be in the private sector,” she says, “where there are no supervising officers, no logbooks, and no... To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

[4.5+] Booker Shortlist 2024 “…when you attempt to escape the world, to leave it behind, you bring things with you.” Our unnamed narrator is an American spy. Current alias Sadie Smith worked for the FBI as an undercover agent, but was fired after an undesirable outcome on a case. She has a facility for languages, and is now freelancing for shadowy types in the private sector. The case at the center of this story is in the Guyenne region of France, where “Sadie” needs to infiltrate anarchic eco-activists who are conspiring to prevent their small farming community from going corporate. Her role is to find out whether they plan on acts of terrorism. We start in media res, where “Sadie” has already taken up residence with target-adjacent Lucien, in a big farmhouse. She cringes every time she has sex with him, but this is the price she is willing to pay for access. As a spy, she’s a natural chameleon, a smart cookie, daring, and self-contained. Her life is one of subterfuge and delusion—her second skin-- that she may not even comprehend her own motives by now. Moreover, she seems to have a growing drinking problem, which kept me on edge while reading. Creation Lake is less an espionage story than it is an identity story---Sadie discovering things about herself (and how our ancestors stamped us) that she wasn’t anticipating, her outlook and core beliefs. The Le Moulin anarchists have a spiritual and intellectual leader, Bruno Lacombe, who lives in a cave and sends his distillation of thought and philosophy by email. Sadie has hacked into these emails from Bruno to another leader, Pascal Balmy. In this iteration--her spy costume this time--she is a translator, and Lucien intends to hook her up with Pascal and his comrades to translate a book they anonymously wrote. During her stay, “Sadie” connects to Bruno’s ideology of the ancient past as a way to understand and approach today’s problems and foster a better future. He talks about the Thal (Neanderthal) and other human-esque species preceding the Thal. Bruno believes we can learn from them. He has a startling insight into the cave paintings at Lascaux and other illustrations in other caves. I’ll leave that for the reader to discover. I admit that, while reading, I thought there were several siloed threads that weren’t clearly related. Sadie’s past, murky AF; the current target; and the agendas of many characters who populate this group of activists---they seemed to be floating out there, but without a precise connection. There are also a few risky moves on Sadie’s part, in furtherance of her own desires. She is sleek when she treats the subversives transactionally. We aren’t supposed to necessarily fathom the raw Sadie, her lack of morals and pronounced, consummate capitalism. There are times she appears to be tearing herself down in order to rebuild, and is often blind to her own flaws. The book is about Sadie’s evolution; the spy identity is a vehicle for transformation and adds tension to the story. Bruno elegantly exhorts his followers to think bigger, like reading the stars the way a sailor would read the sea. Sadie is touched by the celestial matters that Bruno waxes on about. Kushner’s gorgeous prose elevates this novel (and all her novels) to a step that’s out of Time. In talking metaphorically about technology, Bruno states, “Cave frequencies…are not three to thirty megahertz. Cave bandwidth crosses moments, eras, epochs, eons. You have to learn to go inside the monophony, to tease it apart. Eventually, you uncover an extraordinary polyphony…There’s a feeling that everyone is here.” There’s a bit of The Flamethrowers here, in that there’s an underground, radical movement in which the protagonist is involved, looking for identity and also making herself a conduit for the people she meets. In Creation Lake, she plays one person off of another. Learning about Sadie is a novel’s worth—she’s a lot to unpack, and it is through the other figures that we learn about her character. It’s hard to parse because our own moral compass can get in the way of apprehending her. But, through her personal (and interpersonal) behaviors and actions, and the conduct of the activists, and, of course, Bruno, there’s room to grasp the indeterminate and enigmatic Sadie/not Sadie. Thank you to Simon and Schuster for sending me a finished copy for review.

An American spy, working in the private sector after being sacked by the security services - infiltrates a commune in rural France, intent on finding (or manufacturing) evidence of eco-terrorism. All the time, she becomes obsessed with the group's deity, a man nobody has seen in a quarter of a century, a mysterious philosopher intent on restoring the culture of the neanderthal to curb the damages of modern progress. This stunning novel may be framed as a spy narrative, but opens up to discuss philosophy and anthropology, satirises the bourgeois nature of eco-activism, and asks what is the true cost of human progress and capitalism. Creation Lake is gripping, thought provoking and always surprising. One of the year's standout memorable novels, I would not be at all surprised to find it on the Booker longlist when it's announced next week.

Okay wow, where did this come from? Well, well, well. After previously disliking everything this author has ever written, and writing her off as "not for me," I was shocked by how much I actually loved this. It rocked. This book had me completely enthralled. Always had me guessing and not in a plot sense, but for me trying to work out what this book was saying or doing. It’s exhilarating and thought-provoking. Disguised as a spy novel, it’s really full of themes exploring what it’s like to be an outsider; to be on the outskirts of common thinking —for better or worse. Our protagonist is one of the most fascinating narrators I’ve read in a long time: selfish and destructive. Note: I didn’t say self-destructive —our narrator is not a menace to herself, she’s a menace to others. Her purpose is to make other people self-destructive. It’s her job. Now is she good at her job? That’ll be for you to decide. This book is both wild and deep. Cold as ice yet tells us a whole lot about ourselves. Lots to chew on. One of those books I could analyze forever. I need time to ruminate. But I will say, it’s a firecracker in my eyes. Quite the turnaround of not caring for Kushner’s past works to bring completely in love with her new one. Okay, gimme time to think. Quote I liked (very cynical, I might add: “In my own salt, my own core, this is what I knew: Life goes on a while. Then it ends. There is no fairness. Bad people are honored, and good ones are punished. The reverse is also true. Good people are honored, and bad people are punished, and some will call this grace, or the hand of God, instead of luck. But deep down, even if they lack the courage to admit it, inside each person, they know that the world is lawless and chaotic and random. This truth is stored in their salt. Some have access. Others don't. A gift or a curse, that my salt is right here, with me all the time? A gift. I'd rather be driven by immutable truths than the winds of some opinion, whose real function is to underscore a person's social position in a group, a belief without depth.”

A spy who is funny, sardonic, and glib. Eco-terrorists. The south of France. Neanderthals (literally). What more could anyone want in a Rachel Kushner novel? I loved CREATION LAKE, and savored the way she re-imagined the classic spy novel.

When Rachel Kushner comes out with a new novel, attention must be paid. Typically, her themes are pollical: dangerous Italian political currents in Flamethrowers, the horror of incarceration in Mars, and often, a pervading outlaw sensibility. The anti-hero of Creation Lake, who goes by the pseudonym Sadie Smith, is also a sort of outlaw. Again, Kushner tackles a meaty topic: environmental activism (threads of Eleanor Catton’s Birnam Wood come to mind). It’s an espionage novel but not really; its key question appears to be “is it at all possible to control the future and are we coded somehow to destroy our own humanity?” The core of the narrative is about Sadie’s undercover work-for-hire to undermine a group of environmental activists, specifically, to disrupt the Moulinards. They are a French farming cooperative that wants to stop the government from constructing a “megabasin” to advance corporate farming. To this end, she becomes fascinated by the Moulinards’ muse, a man named Bruno, who lives in a cave and believes that each of us inherits code, blueprints, or maybe a set of instructions from those who came before us. His musings on the possible superiority of the Neanderthal man make for fascinating reading. Bruno believes codes are like genetic lice crawling from ancestors to descendants. Sadie’s employers, who are never revealed, are morally questionable, but so are Pascal and many of the other Moulinards. For that matter, so is Sadie. Readers who need someone to root for will not find it in this novel. What they will find are counter-histories and plunges into the past that beg the question “what does it mean to be human.” While Sadie Smith remains, to the last, an enigma, the forces that shape her begin to be revealed. As a character-based reader, I wondered from time to time whether Creation Lake was a book for me until it became evident it was. As always, Rachel Kushner leaves the reader with a lot to reflect on. I am very grateful that Simon & Schuster provided me with an early copy in exchange for an honest review. 4.5 stars.

Rachel Kushner should be a household name. But she is a recognizable force in the literary world with numerous prestige nominations (the current book is longlisted for the Booker), and approbations from such heavy hitters as George Saunders ("I'll read anything that she writes)." Her curiosity is far ranging, and her heroines are fearless. Kind of like her. "Sadie Smith," heroine/narrator of Creation Lake, operates under the radar and we never learn her true identity while delving deeply into her motivations and behaviors. Never mind. Through "Sadie's" infiltration of an eco terrorist group in southwestern France we explore such diverse subjects as Neanderthal dreaming and conceptual art, the rise of homo sapiens, the creation of megabasins that constitute a form of fracking involving water table and river destruction, celestial navigation. Her facts are well researched and woven into a spy thriller that contains the kind of page turning propulsive energy we've come to expect from Ms. Kushner. Can't wait to see where she takes us next.

oh yes i loved this. smart, engaging writing. i need to read more kushner.

Once again, Rachel Kushner has written a strong and compelling novel. I have read all her novels. Not everyone found this one great. I read it for a reading group and the other two members had less than wonderful reactions. Sadie Smith (not her real name) is a spy for an unnamed entity, sent to foil the plans of a commune in rural France. That plan is intended to disrupt the agribusiness in the area and save the water table. A Monkey Wrench Gang for the 21st century. She is one cold-hearted and scheming woman. An unlikable character; the sort I call a “bad woman.” I tend to fall for such characters. She is no worse and no better than any spy I have found in fiction. In fact, all the characters in the story loom large. So do some quite provocative ideas about Homo Sapiens vs Neanderthal peoples in the ancient past as well as scenes set in caves. I was fascinated on every page. The tension mounts in each chapter. This is a wonderfully complex story, as all Kushner novels are. The balance of personal and political is skillfully maintained. The ending was a perfect landing for Sadie

Whether it is power, money, politics, environmental issues or just revenge, a spy for hire must put aside personal feelings and focus on completing her assignment. That’s it, or not! Kushner did a great job of creating an FBI undercover agent, unable to deliver her mark and fired, who became a freelance operative. Sadie, as we know her, plays a long game to eventually become embedded within a commune of ecoterrorists trying to protect the environment in the French countryside. Her mission is to find out whether they plan to become violent and if not, plant seeds to insure a violent outcome. Sadie has also been given a name, Bruno Lacombe, an activist, possible mentor of the group who has not been seen for decades. Sadie hacks into emails he has sent the group and these emails take the book in a separate but equally important direction. Bruno, who has become a cave dweller, believes that man has destroyed the world and that the way to salvation is through returning to primitive times. Through his communications, Sadie, very much a realist, becomes enamored of his view of humanity and the creative tales he weaves. How will this affect the person she is? The juxtapositions of past, present and possible future have not only Sadie re-examining everything but also the reader. This could have been a superficial spy novel, Kushner gave her characters complexity. Also, tthe book could have been preachy, Kushner made sure it wasn’t. Thank you NetGalley and Scribner for this advance copy. All opinions are my own. .

I immediately became enthralled by the first-person protagonist in “Creation Lake”, by Rachel Kushner. Her alias is “Sadie Smith”; she’s ruthless, wry, sardonic, full of hubris, and she’s a deliciously unreliable narrator: my favorite kind! She is an American, a former spy for a federal agency now working in the UK for “private interests” (read: a mercenary). She has no qualms about her assignment to infiltrate and manipulate an anarchist commune in rural France devoted to the collapse of Capitalism, called Le Moulin. As she plots and plans to trap Le Moulin into a violent protest over rural/farmer’s water rights, she surreptitiously reads emails sent to the collective by a mysterious former radical named Bruno, who has abandoned his anarchist stance and is now preaching non-violence. Bruno is living outside of civilization (in caves) and is advising Le Moulin, by way of teaching them about anthropology and astrology: emphasis on the Neanderthals and Polaris. What does it mean to detach from the future and live in the now? Eventually, Sadie must confront the big existential questions Bruno evinces. Are Bruno’s missives an indication of madness or genius? How will Sadie’s machinations play out? Will it turn out to be a trap for Le Moulin or for Sadie? I couldn’t wait to find out! Rachel Kushner is a fabulous writer, as fans of “The Mars Room” already know. I predict this unique “spy thriller” with its compelling plot and sui generis narrator will entertain and delight readers of both popular and literary fiction.

Beautifully Imperfect Maddie Mortimer’s Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is a gripping novel about Lia, a mother battling a devastating illness. The book has flashes between Lia’s present life with her fabulous husband Harry and wonderful daughter Iris, Lia’s past life, and the voice of her illness. Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies was one of my most anticipated reads for June, and it didn’t disappoint. It is incredibly moving. It combined traditional prose with verse, and it really captured my attention. This book felt so authentic, because when I was dying back in 2021 before my first heart surgery, you do reflect back on your life. What moments did you waste? Where did you go wrong? Are you prepared to exit the world? Am I in good shape to meet my Maker? And you also wonder: when did this all begin? How long have I been living with this disease? Was it there all along? What would my life be like without this horrible thing? Mortimer perfectly developed her characters. None of them are saints, and she didn’t lean on cliches to carry Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies. As far as the ending, it is deeply moving, well done and memorable. This book is definitely sad so if you like sad stories, you might want to give this a go. Also, this book really reminded me of The Book Thief which has the narrator as the voice of death. So if you enjoyed the style of The Book Thief, you might want to try Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies. Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is around 433 pages (at least according to this version of the Advanced Reader Copy), and I think it is a touch too long. Overall, Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is a deeply moving novel with unexpected twists, written in a style that I haven’t seen before, a treasure, haunting, lingering. *Thanks, Scriber, for a copy of this book in exchange for my fair and honest opinion. 2024 Reading Schedule Jan Middlemarch Feb The Grapes of Wrath Mar Oliver Twist Apr Madame Bovary May A Clockwork Orange Jun Possession Jul The Folk of the Faraway Tree Collection Aug Crime and Punishment Sep Heart of Darkness Oct Moby-Dick Nov Far From the Madding Crowd Dec A Tale of Two Cities Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta

Winner of the 2022 Golden Reviewer Book of The Year . Winner of the 2022 Desmond Elliott Prize for debut novel and shortlisted for the Goldsmiths Prize. 1st in my 2022 Booker Prize longlist rankings - my Bookstagram rating, ranking, summary review and Book themed Golden Retriever photo is here: https://www.instagram.com/p/ChF0QOxsV... It was a stupid idea. The book was too advanced for her; too advanced, she was sure, for a student of science. But she was trying, at least trying, to understand what was happening to her daughter's body. Anthracycline, antibiotics. The problem with it was the lack of story. Narrative. When asked for his definition of Neighbour, Jesus did not turn to his glossary. He had a parable and a Samaritan up his sleeve. Human example is everything, thought Anne, as her hands shaped and carved and built and bent through pathology and insulin and enzyme activity and junctions and ecosystems. I read this book due to its longlisting for the 2022 Desmond Elliott Prize and I have to say up front that a debut novelist, and in particular one in her mid-20s, simply has no right to write a book this good. Because this is a remarkable book which combines a fresh voice and literary (as well as typographical) experimentation with a central idea which is universal (but I think seldom covered in fiction), resonant themes, and with a deep maturity in its empathetic understanding of people’s bodies and mind. Introducing a reading of the book (on Damian Barr’s Literary Salon) the author explained how growing up with a mother with breast cancer for almost her whole childhood, that the cancer never, even from a young age, struck her as something that her family were battling, but something they were living beside every day a kind of abstract, shape-shifting idea that came and went, something they had to understand as if befriending it might tame it. Her mother died of the cancer when she was 14 and it was not something she had ever intended to write about, but the intense last six months of her mum’s life kept returning to her as she began to write. She also explained that she had been experimenting with prose poetry, based around the interior landscape of a woman’s body, thinking about the idea of how our bodies harbour the events and people that have shaped us, and how she could capture that on a page. And it is from these two, rather experimental, narrative threads that the book was initially woven. In a publisher interview (where she also sets out the contemporary novels that have inspired her book (The White Book, Checkout 19, Autobiography of Red, Lincoln in the Bardo, Multiple Choice, The Familiar, Grief is a Thing With Feathers – note the second book on the extremely impressive Desmond Elliott longlist to show Max Porter’s direct influence) Maddie Mortimer describes the book brilliantly by saying “There are three narrative threads in the book that are not only in constant communication, but are actively competing against one another to ‘tell’ the story. The events happening in Lia’s past and present are mapped onto the landscape of her body, the first person eats away at the third, there are fragments of anatomical science and religious philosophy, of poetry, painting and dance and typographic moments where words drip, or swell, as if magnified — they mirror and bend. By experimenting with form like this, by shifting between styles and building up patterns to pick at and unravel I found that the novel had become about the very act of storytelling; about the way we choose to frame our lives, and which version of ourselves we let take the lead. As Lia (an illustrator with a vast imagination) nears death, she is attempting to make sense of her choices, her illness. The piecing together of self is her final creative act.” Because the basic plot of the novel, is about a woman and children’s book writer-illustrator Lia who has had a return (and spreading) of the breast cancer which first arose shortly after the birth of her Yellow-loving child Iris (now highly perceptive and recently started at secondary school). The other key human characters are: Lia’s husband Harry (a University lecturer with a hobby as a Gardener); her mother Anne, now widowed after the death of her high-Anglican and deeply faithful Parish-Priest husband Peter and whose relationship with the rebellious Amelia has always been marked by mutual judgement and suspicion and who now elderly (and scrawny pigeon or generously Dove-like in appearance) struggles with how to deal with, as well as make theological sense of, her daughter’s illness; Matthew – how came to the Vicarage as a waif and stray when he was 15 and Lia 11, and who was effectively adopted as something of a (to Lia) preferred prodigal by Anne and Peter, before becoming an on-off lover of Lia for many years (starting when she was just 15) but who now is something of a Fossil-ised memory for her. But the most distinctive character is a first-person voice, which (at least at first) I interpreted as Lia’s long-dormant, now reappearing cancer and one which sets out to explore the interior contours, pathways, vessels and organs of her body. There the voice encounters the aggressive Red chemotherapy treatment sent to destroy the cancer and the group of those who are part of Lia’s past and present (who he sees as Yellow, The Gardener, The Dove, The Fossil and so on) which in turn leads to his exploration bringing long dormant memories to life. All of this captured not just through an often poetic prose shot through with cultural reference, and with an active exploration of words and meaning, but in a fluid and varying typography – starting with the use of bold and italics as signifiers of voice, but incorporating varying font sizes and then even non standard text orientation. And increasingly the various already porous barriers in the book: the past and the present; the exterior and the interior; Lia’s body and thoughts and the almost constant presence in them of the cancer – largely disappear. So that for example the voice increasingly becomes part of Lia. And there is a remarkable scene with Lia and family attending a dance performance where the voice choreographs the set of internal characters (Yellow etc) on the exterior stage. Really this description only touches the surface of a novel which is all about what goes on underneath that surface (both literally and figuratively – although the very distinction between literal and figurative, physical and mental, experience and memory is one the book implicitly rejects). What I think is most impressive about the book is that put all the experimentation to one side and this would still be a deeply thoughtful book about the human condition with a complex and involving plot and a series of fully realised characters. Be it: the mother/daughter relationship (as experienced from both sides and across multiple generations); Fatherhood and being the partner of a cancer sufferer (there is a brilliant aside when Harry picks up Lia from a hospital appointment wearing the expression he has on Iris’s first day at a new school); the very complex and nuanced exploration of faith/loss of faith (with Anne/Peter/Matthew and Lia all on their own non-linear journeys); school playground politics and dynamics; long term on-off relationships or terminal illness – the book has nuance and depth. The author herself spoke about how this developed over the course of the book: for all the play and ‘fizz’ there were also simple delights that emerged unexpectedly along the way. I learnt that a fully realised character or frank, honest dialogue can be just as poetic as a perfectly constructed metaphor, or a bit of clever word play. This, I think, is growing up. It’s realising that you have nothing to prove. It’s leaving your coat and scarf and pretension in the hall, taking the hands of your characters, and letting them lead you through the house. A comment which I think shows the maturity lacking from many other “literary” or “experimental” books (many of which either are content just to play with form, or which are largely didactic) but which is present in abundance in this really excellent book – one which (returning to the opening quote – taken from the book) has learnt the need for story and human example. Hugely recommended.

I'm just... speechless. And crying.

Just give her the Booker prize already! How is it possible that this is a debut novel from an author who's not even thirty? When, where and how does one so young master the English language and the art of writing to such a high level? I'm glad I listened to the audiobook because it was superbly narrated by Tamsin Greig and Lydia Wilson who were phenomenal. Their reading emphasized the text's musicality and playfulness. Apparently, this is also one of those novels that play with typography, paragraphs and images. I'm a fan. For instance, one of the main characters of this novel is cancer who interjects now and then and whose voice is in a bold typeset. (I need to get me a copy, besides, it's got such a beautiful cover and the title is superb.) The cancer is taking over Lia's body. She's had it before, but now it's returned and it's terminal. Her beloved husband, Harry, is destroyed and so is their twelve-year-old daughter, Iris. They have their distinct ways of dealing with their pain. When one is dying, one looks back. We get to travel back in time to Lia's teen years and younger years. Painful memories, cold parents, bad relationships, sickness, loss, parenting, and a mother's love for her daughter - are themes that are familiar to all of us. Mortimer excels in the way she goes about telling those familiar stories, she uses incredibly lyrical, unrelentingly beautiful language (this is a novel to savour). The structure was brilliant, it never felt gimmicky. I'm blown away! Again, just give her the Booker already!

Spoilers ahead! Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is one of those books that comes around every now and then with an unconventional antagonist. It won the 2022 Desmond Elliot Prize for debut novels and was longlisted for the Booker Prize. I can see why! It was a unique and compelling literary journey for me. This story centers around protagonist Lia, her husband Harry, and their daughter, Iris. Lia is a breast cancer survivor who finds that her cancer has returned, spreading to other areas like her brain. Author Maddie Mortimer explores the emotional and mental experiences of a woman who feels that her life will be coming to an end sooner rather than later, through the perspective of the cancer growing inside her. (Part of my brain was framing this as a darker version of a mix between Osmosis Jones and Pixar's Inside Out.) The cancer is our antagonist, but also a sort of guide through Lia’s life, as she’s reflecting on key moments from the past. I think the cancer’s perspective was very well-written, coming off sympathetic one moment to sinister in another. (The cancer points out that it is a part of Lia, having grown from her own cells.) Or is it that the sinister nature of this antagonist is that the reader finds themselves almost pitying it? I haven’t figured it out for myself, even after much reflection on the book afterwards. Either way, the cancer becomes a haunting narrator. “It is a shame, such a shame, Harry thought, that to be a human is to be one thing, to be contained, to have these walls of skin and a singular sense of self that sloshes and slaps around inside of us like water on the inside of a well.” It is no surprise then that as Lia’s condition progressively worsens, that memories she’s kept locked away come forward. The cancer uncovers Lia’s tumultuous and troubled first love, Matthew, and her troubled relationship with her religious mother, Anne. At the same time, it becomes imperative to Lia, a creative children’s book illustrator, to finish her latest project before it's too late. (view spoiler) I have to say that I know nobody is perfect; they have good and bad aspects that comingle and complicate the ways we see and interact with each other. However, I just could not get over my dislike of Matthew, even though I understand his own troubled backstory as influencing how he moves in the world. I understood, but I did not forgive. (view spoiler) I also understand why Matthew plays such a big part of the story, as Lia reminisces about what has been, and Harry finds himself confronting his own insecurities around Lia and her past love, wondering if he’s ever been enough for her. Of course, he’s also tackling the intense role of being a cancer patient’s caregiver, which on its own would be too much for one person to handle. It would be neglectful of me to omit the part Iris plays in this. (view spoiler) As one life is coming to an end, another is just finding her way in the world. So, while Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is a novel about death, it is also about life and coming-of-age in a cruel, yet wonderful world. I am going to admit that I found myself constantly in tears throughout the whole book as I experienced with Lia and her family their emotional journey as Lia inexorably deteriorates. The contrast between Anne and Lia and Lia and Iris and their differing bonds; that really got me too. Lia struggled to connect with her mother, but Iris and Lia have such a lovely, poignantly close bond that is tested throughout the book (but does not break), as Iris comes-of-age amid the complicated world of school politics and interpersonal relationships, all while Lia is dying. Despite these obstacles, Iris I think comes out to be the strongest of all the characters in this book. While the ending wrapped up things well, I would not be opposed to some sort of sequel that explores Iris making her way in the world after her mother’s death. Overall, Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is a solid, breathtaking debut novel that tackles big themes through the exploration of small things—small as merely a piece of a much larger big picture, such as the inner lives of a cancer patient and her family. Happy reading! (Make sure to have a box of tissues before you start reading.) -Cora Find this book and other titles within our catalog.

My thanks to the author, Maddie Mortimer, and to the publisher, Scribner, for a copy if this book. The subject of this book is the big C, the never ending, ever present, cancer and its battle for the life of Lia. What effects are wrought in her family because of this are as much of the story as the disease. The language can be intimidating and verbose while at the same time cutting very close to the bone. For those facing similar situations this could be a difficult read.

Something I have always wondered is whether a museum has a right to keep collections from explorers or artifacts that were stolen in the past. On one hand it is a fascinating insight to another culture, especially if it’s one you’ll never visit. On the other hand it is theft and a sign of colonial attitudes, which should be returned. This question of heritage is one of the many themes found in Gabriela Wiener’s Undiscovered. The author, who is Peruvian, is browsing in a museum and finds artifacts from the explorer, Charles Wiener, who she believes is her great great grandfather. The majority of the book consists of Gabriela Wiener tracing her heritage and trying to find the connection between the Austrian Weiner and her Peruvian roots. At the same time she is grieving over her father and is finding it hard to remain faithful to both her husband and girlfriend. In her research Gabriela finds out that infidelity and children from these affairs is quite common in her family tree, Charles Wiener himself could have had affairs with other Peruvians as well, while on his quest to discover Machu Picchu and Gabriela does wonder if her lineage is traced from there. Allegedly, Charles Wiener also bought a child from a Peruvian native, with the intention to display and educate it in the western way – this also ties up with the main themes of heritage and colonialism. As a novel, Undiscovered hits on all points, writing is excellent, the themes all mix fluidly, there’s moments which range from enlightening to unsettling (I’m referring more to the scenes involving human zoos and child indoctrination). I also liked how the autobiographical bits had light fictional touches. Another highlight from this year’s International Booker Longlist.

Great stuff!!

one of my fav books this year! so beautiful and also weird and so captivating

Just finished Simpatia, my fourth read from this year's International Booker Prize long list and currently my favourite, even though it sadly didn't make the shortlist. I thoroughly enjoyed this read and how the characters and story developed, from what was obvious and expected to being something else entirely. It's an unusual plot set against the backdrop of a country that is in turmoil, and that underlying fear and uncertainty is felt in the pages. I do feel it ended a little quickly and I would have liked a couple of the final acts to have just a little more substance and explanation, that said I think it is a very accomplished book and was a pleasure to read.

this is probably the most stunning exploration i've encountered of a fact of modern life that haunts me. inundated as we are with horrible news, we keep it all at a distance, our daily functioning relying on our shutting out that every murder, act of colonization, ongoing genocide is affecting or destroying or ending human lives as complicated and important as our own. but the chance that a "minor detail" will strike us, as it strikes our protagonist when she encounters the story of the rape and murder of a palestinian woman by israeli soldiers that happened 25 years to the day before her birth, causes it all to collapse. the connections it draws between our main character and the girl this violence happens to is also a disturbing, timely reminder of that same message. we are separated from those who are suffering only by minor details, in feeling and in chance. this is a haunting and terrible story, and it's one whose twin in horror is occurring every day before our very eyes. the least we can do is watch and feel and cry out no. bottom line: free palestine.

Now Shadow Jury winner of the International Booker Prize although the official jury did not even shortlist it. I read this novella due to its longlisting for the 2021 International Booker Prize – it is published by Fitzcarraldo, a small UK press with significant success in this prize, in pre-publishing Noble Prize winners and in the Republic of Consciousness Prize. It is translated by Elisabeth Jacquette – a translation process that the author has implied in interviews was challenging The text came with an added burden for the translator because the language had been formulated by a specific experience—in this case, the ways it was violated by colonization and oppression. In Arabic, this linguistic experience needed a lot of space and precision—attention to what is written and what is intentionally not written. We spoke about a process of continuous exchange, but I don’t think Jaquette expected the extent to which this was the case. She did the best she could to work with that, and the editors also tried to address these multiple layers. The book is based on a real incident – a war crime which was investigated 40+ years later, using newly unclassified documents, by the liberal/left-of-centre Israeli paper Haaretz here: https://www.haaretz.com/1.4746524 This is also I think a book both easily – given it is very short - and best read in a single sitting - as that way the overall effect of the book – and in particular the resonances between the two parts (the first set in the Negev Desert in the Summer of 1949 at the end of the Palestine War/Israeli War of Independence/The Nakba – effectively a retelling of the war crime; the second in the modern day in Ramallah – effectively an investigation of the crime) – come into effect. Without that I think the first part in particular can seem very weak and oddly repetitive. The first section is told in a very distanced third person by the commander of a group of Israeli soldiers patrolling the Negev Desert “their primary mission during their presence here, in addition to demarcating the southern border with Egypt and preventing anyone from penetrating it, was to comb the southwest part of the Negev and cleanse it of any remaining Arabs “. The narrative thrust of this section is that the soldiers come across and massacre a group of what turn out to be unarmed Bedouins and their camels, and take the sole survivor (a girl) back to their camp – initially the Commander orders them to leave her untouched and use her as a cook, but ultimately she is gang raped (including by the Commander) and then massacred. Much - if not all - of the "major detail" in this section - the actual atrocity itself - is lifted almost entirely from what actually occurred as set out in the Haaretz article. However what is really important in this section to the novel is what seems to be the more minor details in four respects. First of all the Commander is suffering from fever caused by some form of bite – in what I think seems to be a metaphor for the insidious effect of the occupation on Israeli military society – starting with the behaviour of the troops in 1949 but continuing to the present day. Secondly the actual narrative though could be said to be “rinse, lather, repeat” as it is dominated by the commander’s systematic washing of himself (and the resulting soap suds) in a series of almost identical paragraphs. And thirdly there are a number of other images and what seem like incidental (or minor) details. Most noticably the smell of the girl’s petrol-deloused hair, but wider smells of sweat, sounds of dogs barking, an obsession with crushing spiders, a coiled hose, grass pulled up by its roots, lost camels, thorn acacia and terebinth trees and cane grass, a phrase “Man, not the tank, shall prevail”, the “heft of a mirage” and so on. And fourthly the date that the incident took place is repeated time and time again. The second section is in a first person by a Palestinian girl with I think (and other reviews seem to agree) some form of autism – albeit whether this is induced more by the conditions of the occupation than any medical condition is unclear. In particular she has an issue with borders “as soon as I see a border, I either race towards it and leap over, or cross it stealthily, with a step” And in this section she crosses two sets of borders – those set up by the Israel’s to confine the Palestinians and the borders between past and present. She also, due to her obsessive nature, focuses on minor details, and when she comes across the article in Haaretz, she focuses on one thing “a detail that I really quite minor when compared to the incident’s major details, which can only be described as tragic” – the fact that the incident took place exactly 25 years before her own birth (the fourth of my minor details). She decides, with the aid of a borrowed pass, to go to investigate the incident by travelling – crossing physical borders between the different Zones - first to a museum and then to where she believes it took place (the Haaretz article explains why this involves going to two different places) in an attempt to understand what the girl suffered – and so crossing the second border, to the past. As she travels – the importance to the novella of the other minor details in the first section become clear. The various images recur in different ways. The girl, filling up a car for the first time, spills petrol on herself, the smell of which she cannot get rid of despite a detailed attempt to clean herself with soap suds in an almost identical ritual to the commander. And the other images occur more symbolically. A fable of a lost camel is used to illustrate her own ability to “focus intently on the most minor details … as the only way to arrive at the truth”. The obsession of the commander with actual spiders occurs more mentally as “a spider .. spinning its threads round me, tightening them into something like a barrier … the barrier of fear” (linking also to the various barriers erected at checkpoints). The grass pulled up by its roots is used as a metaphor for the girl for the way that incidents can be linked over many years “you think you’ve got rid of it entirely, only for grass of the exact same species to grow back in the same spot a quarter of a century later” – which both shows the way in which the girl is effectively reliving the experiences of her murdered predecessor and acts as I think as a metaphor of course for the on-going conflict between Israel and the displaced Palestinians. The coiled hose (the hose key to the first section and in the Haaretz article) and the slogan reappear to signal to us (and the girl) that she has found the site of the atrocity. And when the thorn acacia and terebinth trees and cane grass appear – we suddenly realise how the book will end and how the past and future will intersect – something also signalled by a mirage that both starts the first section and ends the other. Overall this is a powerful book and I think a real contender for the prize.

reading is resistance

Minor Detail is a short but harrowing and deeply impactful novella. It follows two timelines: one in 1949 that details the brutal rape and subsequent murder of a young Palestinian woman by a group of Israeli soldiers (written from one of their POVs), and another from the POV of a Palestinian women intent on investigating/bringing to light this event that has become a “minor detail” in history. The writing style was very cold and almost detached in a way that really highlighted the desolation/hopelessness of it all. The ending is just a total gut punch and offers a glimpse of the life horrors Palestine is facing. A short but haunting read.

"Besides, sometimes it's inevitable for the past to be forgotten, especially if the present is no less horrific." Minor Detail is a small book broken up in two parts. In part I, we see the (true) story of a young Bedouin girl in 1950s Palestine being taken and raped, then murdered by Israeli soldiers. In part II, we follow a Palestinian journalist from Ramallah as she tries to learn more about this woman’s story. Part I The first part of this book is written in a detached third person voice. It seems like it from the journal entries of the Israeli soldier who found and abused the Bedouin girl. The horrific story of this girl isn't even on this guy's priority list and the disconnected tone makes it all the more haunting as you see how this terrible act is nothing but a minor detail in the lives of these soldiers. I found this first part a little disjointed and very hard to get through, but that was the point. This part is sickening and it’s even more sickening that it was real. Part II The second part of the book is written in the more personal first person, as we follow a young journalist who grows obsessed with this Bedouin girl's story solely because it happened 25 years before the day she was born. This story hits just as hard as we follow her in present day Palestine and observe all of the obstacles and dangers she faces when she is just trying to get a bit more information on something. We follow our main character as she goes from Ramallah to Tel Aviv and the many struggles she faces before she herself becomes a minor detail. This book does exactly what it sets out to do perfectly. It is an exemplary example of how reading and writing is resistance. This book can also be read in about a day and I would implore everyone to give it a go. It's a hard read, but it is so important. Despite it's size, this is a book that will stick with me for a long time. I would highly recommend to anyone based on the contents alone, but the fact that the author has been censured and unable to receive her reward at the Frankfurt Book Fair because of what is going on in Palestine makes it an incredibly important read right now.

Sometimes when I'm reading about a period of history a detail will jump out at me concerning an individual or incident which inexplicably resonates with me. It might be something small which there isn't much more information about so I can only imagine the circumstances surrounding it, but it has a way of bringing the past alive and offers an insight beyond the broader historical picture. That's what happens to the narrator in the second half of “Minor Detail” by Adania Shibli. Amidst her working day she comes across an article which describes how a young Palestinian woman was captured by Israeli soldiers in the Negev desert during the War of 1948. The woman was repeatedly raped before being killed and buried in the sand. It's only one incident in a war which led to the displacement and exile of some 700,000 Palestinians. Though it only gets a brief mention in this larger article she considers how “There may in fact be nothing more important than this little detail, if one wants to arrive at the complete truth, which, by leaving out the girl's story, the article does not reveal.” The narrator was also born exactly twenty-five years after this murdered woman's death and this makes her feel an affinity towards her. She embarks on a perilous journey across hostile territory to discover more about this obscure victim. In 112 pages of spare, piercing prose Shibli evokes great emotion. She exposes the tragedy of individuals who were not only victims of war but whose loss has been trivialised or forgotten when their personal stories are buried in a larger view of history. Read my full review of Minor Detail by Adania Shibli on LonesomeReader

Incredibly smart and intentional writing here. It deserves the award it won. Why did LITPROM CANCEL this AUTHORS AWARD ceremony? https://youtu.be/eVZ_GN9YhVI

Ohhhh man. This book absolutely shattered my heart, but I mean that as the highest possible praise. It contains two stories—that of an Israeli army official who abuses a captured woman in 1949 and that of a modern Palestinian academic researching the event. The army official’s story is told in a way that really exemplifies the banality of evil. Repetition is deployed throughout the story, with frequent descriptions of his daily grooming and tidying routine that contrast sharply with the violence he is carrying out. The researcher’s story shows in a very grounded and true-to-life way the complications and fear that Palestinians travelling away from their home must deal with. This is a short read, but it is an incredibly powerful one. You should definitely read this book!

I just finished Minor Detail and I’m sitting in stunned silence absorbing the impact of this book. The casualties of war and occupation are often footnotes, unnamed civilians, incidents deemed not worthy of further investigation. Adania Shibli shows us how profoundly tragic a minor detail can be with understated brilliance. This book is perfect. Highly recommended.

This powerful novella explores the past and “present” of the Israeli-Palestinian occupation. The first half is about 1940s Israeli soldiers stationed near the Egyptian border whose mission are to “comb the southwest part of Negev and cleanse it of any remaining Arabs.” The second half takes place decades later though the eyes of a young Palestinian woman, who becomes obsessed with a crime that takes place in the first section. I loved how even though both halves are different from one another, there is so much mirroring going on. We get similar imagery, objects, and gestures playing out in both sections. There’s also a repetition to the text, which further demonstrates the heavy themes of oppression and paranoia this book works hard to explore. Loved this book.

Read Around the World Challenge 2023 -- Read a book set in or written by an author born in each of 50 countries on the Asian continent: Book 14 / 50: Palestine 🇵🇸 I found my audiobook copy of MINOR DETAIL by Adania Shibli on Scrib'd! MINOR DETAIL takes place during a dual timeline, one of which is in 1949, a period which the Palestinians refer to as Nabka, a time of great trial in which 700,000 Palestinians were displaced during conflict. Israelis celebrate this same historical period as the War of Independence. The first part of this story follows four Israeli soldiers' attack on a young Palestinian girl, the second part, much later, follows a Palestinian woman on pilgrimage, visiting the site of the attack. This is my trigger warning for violence against women, SA, war. This book is remarkable in its style and form, with the dual timelines, which share a few very keen details, like the smell of fuel and sweat. The author constructs the events of each timeline, linked by the shared setting, by providing fine description of the scenes' details. This makes for a harrowing scene, when the soldiers attack the girl, and a dissociated tone when the nameless woman travels through checkpoints and rewritten history. Seeing this novel through the small pieces that compose it is, for the reader, an edifying perspective MINOR DETAIL is a stunning exploration of borders and war, and women's place in such conflict. Rating: 🏜🏜🏜🏜🏜 / 5 dessert sands Recommend? Yes Finished: April 15 2023 Read this if you like: ⚔️ Stories about war 🪢 Experimental form ⏳️ Dual timeline 👧🏽 Diverse voices and stories

haunting prose, left me speechless. couldn’t put down once I started. essential reading.

Let me cut right to the chase: this book, weighing in at nearly 500 pages, is unputdownable. I devoured it within days, and I was sorry when it was over. That’s a high compliment to give to a book but it’s well-deserved. From the title, many readers might jump to the erroneous conclusion this is a book about John Wilkes Booth, the infamous assassin of Abraham Lincoln. It is not – at least, not in totality. There is equal emphasis on all the Booth family including his immensely talented and alcoholic father Junius — a tragedian Shakespearean actor, his mother, and his siblings. The siblings (there were 10 in all) include his oldest sister Rosalie, a hunchbacked girl who is forced to bear the brunt of all the ensuing children, his tortured older brother Edwin – a fine Shakespearian actor in his own right, and Asia, his high-spirited and charismatic older sister. Then, of course, there is Johnny, the handsome next-to-youngest son who becomes fanatically pro-slavery and pro-secession, despite being raised in a vegetarian, anti-slavery family that today might well be labeled “progressive.” How did doted-upon Johnny morph into the historically despised John Wilkes Booth? The answer might well be to remember the words of Cassius, in Shakespeare’s play Julius Caesar. He says “The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, But in ourselves, that we are underlings. Cassius appears to be saying that it’s not our fate that dooms men, but instead their own failings Or is it both? Karen Joy Fowler leads us to believe it may be. Fated to grow up in a very unorthodox family plagued by alcoholism and emotional instability, JWB is also affected the unsettled times in which he lived. Not unlike today, families are being torn apart by the moral quandary of slavery, politicians are most uncivil, women are limited in their self-actualization, and class delineations and faux “holier than thou” stances are widespread. Mob mentality pervades many areas. It doesn’t take too much of a stretch to compare the times to today, with John Wilkes Booth as the ultimate Trumper. Yet JWB is still very much a character of his own making. Unlike his older brothers (and younger brother Joe), he chooses his destiny. His action will change the course of the nation’s history. Most certainly, it will reverberate inside his own family, causing repercussions and unimaginable grief to his mother and siblings. Strongly researched but also partially imagined (particularly when creating the personage of JWB’s sister Rosalie), this is a wonderful example of historical fiction that works. An enormous thanks to G.P. Putnam Sons for enabling me to be an early reader in exchange for an honest review. I loved this book!

BOOTH will eternally evoke the name John Wilkes, the assassin of Abe Lincoln. All I knew about the family was that Booth was a stage actor. Actually, nothing about his family came to mind. But now, wow! I feel intimately close to his brothers and sisters, his parents. John Wilkes is not the main character in Fowler’s brimming character study of the Booths, and the author nailed it by choosing this way to deliver her story. There isn’t one family member that I don’t feel I can talk about with familiarity now, so deep did the author mine her story, her cast. Booth’s father was one of the most celebrated Shakespearean stage actors of his time, until one of his sons took up the mantle. The entire novel is Shakespearean, the way Fowler structured it, threaded throughout with lines from his plays showing up on the page in the exact right moments. This is a powerhouse of a great American novel. A great American tragedy. Another element that pulled me in was the old-fashioned third person POV, yet there was nothing fusty about this narrative. It felt fresh, with knowing parallels to today’s times, as well as particular character traits that almost had me believing that Fowler lived with the Booths! From Maryland, to Philadelphia, NYC, Richmond, London, and other settings, I felt that, no matter where the setting, I felt the insular, insulated feeling of the family, how the tight-knit brood kept others out, even when celebrated and well known in polite and high-toned society. There was a detached attitude to almost everyone outside the family; no matter how broad the travels and influence, the author showed how sequestered they were, how inside themselves they remained, no matter how social or cosmopolitan. The brothers and sisters—even Mother--had their favorites and expectations. Moreover, at their secretive heels, ghosts were constantly nipping. There were those that died as babies, and never stopped haunting Mary Ann, the matriarch. Births and deaths were momentous. One baby’s death: “There were no bouts of uncontrollable weeping, only an endless stream of silent tears. It was as if Frederick had taken her spirit along with him when he went, leaving only a Mother-shaped husk behind.” Or a birth: “Edwin is the family’s seventh child and…arrived with his caul still over his face. The caul has been saved in a small box in her mother’s cupboard. It has the feel of a well-worn handkerchief.” This is no saga—BOOTH is a momentous and character-driven story that will hold you in its grip from start to finish. Even history buffs will fall prey to the exciting and nuanced narrative, despite knowing the climax. But, is the assassination the only climax in this book? There’s more to this intrepid story than John Wilkes Booth, a peripheral character in his own story. Thank you for the free/gifted book from Putnam @PutnamBooks #partner

Reacting to the headline of a mass shooting, Karen Joy Fowler wondered about the families of the shooters. Did they struggle under the burden of notoriety? Were they stigmatized, or able to navigate in society? She realized she knew little about the family of the most notorious American shooter–the man who killed President Lincoln, John Wilkes Booth. As she researched extensively to understand the Booth family, she realized the relevance of this episode in American history, especially after the January 6 insurrection. In her new novel Booth, Fowler brings to life the nine children and parents of the Booth family, beginning with Junius Brutus Booth, a famous actor. He was also a deeply flawed man, a bigamist and an alcoholic. Junius abandoned his English wife and child when he met the beautiful Mary. He settled their family on a farm, scrambling to survive as their patriarch was on tour most of the year. As the boys came of age, they are tasked with being their father’s guardian and caretaker, endeavoring to keep him sober. The eldest son, June becomes an actor with a career in the West. Edwin had hoped for college but was next tasked with his father’s care; he falls into the same bad habits as his father, going on to forge his own acting career. The youngest son to go into acting is John Wilkes, beloved and handsome but demonstrating disturbing traits since childhood. He had little academic interest, joined a gang, and was swayed by extremist politics. The eldest daughter Rosalie experienced the death of younger siblings. She was plagued by physical handicaps, a limp and a curved spine, keeping her at home, a perpetual daughter and caretaker. Asia, strong willed and beautiful, settles for a comfortable marriage, but she remains devoted to her brother John Wilkes. These deeply flawed characters share family trauma of loss and poverty and alcoholism, revering their absent, unreliable father and idolizing their long suffering, beautiful mother. They move from the hard life of the farm to city luxury as the family fortunes rise. The family is apolitical, but Republican, but for John Wilkes who comes to hate abolition and defends slavery. Interspersed are chapters summarizing President Lincoln’s life, career, and speeches–which today seem prescient, referring to mobs and political division and populist leaders. Baltimore and Maryland’s political strife and division are central to the story. The political division in Maryland mirrors the entire country, then and now. Fowler’s story is deep and rich. The Booths seem like a family meant for fiction, encompassing such a broad swath of human experience. I received a free egalley from the publisher through NetGalley. My review is fair and unbiased.

Booth is superbly readable. The pages flow by even when nothing particularly thrilling is happening. Fowler paints intimate portraits of each family member, and the narration includes deft wink-nods to the reader and the future. I was most impressed by the way Fowler kept the day-to-day family drama in the foreground – it struck me as very realistic. My full review of Booth is up now on Keeping Up With The Penguins.

Unexpectedly riveting! Audio is the way to go with this one. More thoughts and book talk on my podcast, Book Talk, etc. https://www.booktalketcpodcast.com/

"What is it like to love the most hated man in the country?" Karen Joy Fowler tells us. We are introduced to Johnny as "the swimmer in Mother's belly", not as the firebrand breaking his leg as he leaps to a stage having committed the most heinous crime imaginable. The title Booth title refers to the entire family, with second-to-youngest son not being the central figure until his actions put paid to their future. Father Junius Brutus Booth was a star in his time, seeking his fortune in America after leaving Britain. That departure had more to it than anyone knew, and reasons are revealed in good time. Mother gives birth every other year, ten total with six surviving, and it is through the five siblings that the story is told, some more factual than others. As in David Eggers's What is the What, Fowler has cast this as a fiction, allowing herself the leeway to fabricate at will, most particularly in the words and character of Rosalie, eldest daughter and most obscure since little of her is available. Daily life as experienced almost 200 years ago is carried out with such attention to detail, so well researched and rendered that the reader is totally immersed. I found myself intrigued by the theatrical conventions of the time, life both urban and rural. Each section is tracked by a quote from Abraham Lincoln, a biographical timeline of his life running concurrently, giving a more complete picture of the times. Although this is not one of my favorite genres, I thoroughly enjoyed every page. Kudos.

This well-written historical novel is told by Booth's family members and not by Booth. I felt sorry for them after he shot Lincoln because he left their lives in a big mess. None of them did well.

Could not put it down. A beautifully written exploration of the Booth family--not just John Wilkes, but the rest of this fascinating theatrical brood. And brood it was. Wilkes was one of ten children (six living) born to Junius Brutus Booth, an English actor who arrived in Maryland in 1821 with his new wife and his father, dropped them off at a rural cabin, and went on tour for most of the next several decades. Junius B. was one of the actors of his age and had a brilliant career until his alcoholism brought in an audience eager to see what he would do next as opposed to experiencing his Hamlet. Three of his sons, Junius Jr., Edwin, and John, would become actors, with Edwin becoming one of the most revered actors of the mid-19th century. Living on a farm in rural Maryland, the Booths worked side by side with Blacks, both enslaved and free. Junius B's father was part of the Underground Railway, the family gave money to Black friends to buy their children, and the Booths respected them more than their white neighbors. So what happened to John? Karen Joy Fowler believes his dedication to the cause of slavery came during a brief period when the family had enough money to send him to an elite boarding school where his charismatic personality made him the pal of boys from plantation families. Of all the handsome Booth boys, John was the most handsome and people loved him, even at his most erratic. Fowler creates a brilliant picture of an America divided, where people deny facts, alcoholism is rampant, and families are crushed by grief with the losses of loved ones from diseases now easily treated. The Civil War and the New York draft riots are drawn so skillfully that any reflection in today's events is completely terrifying. "Booth" is terrific reading. Thought-provoking, entertaining, and historically eye-opening, it is not to be missed.

Karen Joy Fowler’s newest novel, “Booth”, has been one of the year’s most anticipated books. “Booth” is the story of John Wilkes Booth and many other members of his family. Told in alternating chapters by individual family members, Fowler gives some time to Abraham Lincoln and his family. The Booth family was headed by Junius Brutus Booth, an English actor who absconded from London to Baltimore. He fled with his teenage lover, Mary Ann Holmes, leaving behind a legal wife and child. He settled in a farm outside Baltimore and began fathering children while touring as an actor for most of the year. The family here grew, despite losing children to various diseases. They lived an unsettled life, hidden away in the woods, but the male children followed their father on to the stage. They achieved success as actors before John Wilkes assassinated Abraham Lincoln. The Lincoln and Booth families had similar losses of children. The Booths lost four children, out of ten or eleven - and had six who reached adulthood. The Lincolns lost three out their four sons. Fowler does a wonderful job of comparing and contrasting the two…until the fatal meeting at Ford’s Theater in April, 1865. Karen Joy Fowler’s book is long at almost 500 pages, but it is a fascinating read.

4.75/5 stars - absolutely fascinating novel about the Booth family, from even before John Wilkes was born until just after he shot President Lincoln. My #bookreview can be found on my blog here. https://tcl-bookreviews.com/2022/03/0...

Fowler is a legend, gifting us with such broad topics and deep dives in each book! Here should does it again; I loved Jennifer Chiaverini's Fates and Traitors, so Booth felt like a treat before even starting to read it. Both a captivaing look the Booth family, and an exploration of the American story - Fowler deftly focuses on the famous family. It was a richly alternative focus, as we mostly experience history through a detached lens, here she envelopes you in each character and the time that molded them. Plus, her ability to humanize the characters and draw you in with an intimate and well-drawn backstory is perfectly her - their farming, family growth, and struggles are so illustrative. From Junius Booth being a talented but tumultuous Shakespearian actor, all while characterizing the instability of the time - (losing 4 of his 9 siblings) sets up John Wilkes to become the 3D person his family created; truly how all their stories are needed to vividly appreciate him. Literary learning historical fiction, that keeps you reading while wanting to Google and research it at the same time. Galley borrowed from the publisher.

This fascinating new novel by Karen Joy Fowler tells the story, in fictional form, of the Booths, the 19th century theatrical family who produced two of America’s most acclaimed actors, as well as one infamous killer – John Wilkes Booth, the man who assassinated Abraham Lincoln. Although John Wilkes is, unfortunately, the best known Booth and probably the reason many readers will be drawn to this novel – to find out more about his background and what drove him to commit such a terrible crime – this is not just his story. In fact, he plays no bigger a part in it than several of the other Booths. For much of the first half of the book, the focus is on his father, the Shakespearean actor Junius Brutus Booth, who will have an important influence on the lives of each of his children – despite the fact that they rarely see him, as he spends so much time away on tour while the family stay at home on their farm near Baltimore. Junius Brutus is a talented and successful stage actor, but as the years go by his alcoholism and eccentric behaviour make him increasingly unreliable, damaging his reputation and his financial situation. Still, he remains the centre of his children’s lives, and when three of his sons – Junius Jr (or June), Edwin and John Wilkes – follow in his footsteps and become actors themselves, they face a lifelong battle to avoid comparisons with him and with each other. It is Edwin who emerges from his father’s shadow to become one of the leading actors of his time and it is from Edwin’s perspective that we see part of the story unfold. There are also two Booth daughters who survive to adulthood, Rosalie and Asia – and these are the other characters whose perspectives we see throughout the novel. Rosalie is the eldest and her viewpoint is particularly important early in the novel as she has experiences and memories that her younger siblings do not. As Rosalie grows into a sensitive woman who remains unmarried and close to her mother, she becomes known to the family as ‘poor Rosalie’, a sad and slightly tragic figure. Her younger sister Asia, a stronger personality who will become an author later in life, also offers some interesting insights into the dynamics of the Booth family; she has good relationships with both Edwin and John and feels caught in the middle as tensions begin to grow between the two brothers. The murder of Abraham Lincoln doesn’t take place until near the end of the novel and there’s not much time left after that to explore the impact this terrible incident has on the rest of the Booth family. Neither are we given any real answers as to what went wrong with John Wilkes Booth and what led him to carry out the assassination. It’s hard to say why, coming from a family who were loyal to the Union and largely anti-slavery, it is only John who ends up supporting the Confederacy and opposing abolition. All we can do is make our own assessment based on the information we are given, through the eyes of his siblings, about his childhood, his relationships, his education and his political views. The novel has clearly been thoroughly researched (although in her author’s note, Karen Joy Fowler explains that as there’s very little information available on Rosalie Booth, it was necessary to use her imagination to fill in the gaps where Rosalie’s character is concerned). However, the book is incredibly detailed and this does slow the plot down a lot, particularly in the middle. We are also given some biographical information on Abraham Lincoln himself and on the events that lead to the Civil War and his presidency. These sections are interspersed with the Rosalie, Edwin and Asia chapters and are presented as non-fiction, which I didn’t really like as I felt it disrupted the flow of the story. Despite the negative points I’ve just mentioned, I loved this novel. Even the use of present tense and heavy foreshadowing didn’t put me off. I enjoyed learning about a group of historical figures I’d previously known almost nothing about – I particularly liked the parts about the colourful theatrical careers of Edwin and Junius Brutus – and every time I picked the book up I looked forward to finding out what would happen to the family next. I haven’t read anything else by Karen Joy Fowler, not even We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves, but having enjoyed this book so much I’ll consider reading some of her others now.

Karen Joy Fowler is not an especially prolific author, but when she writes a book, she writes the heck out of it. (You may remember award-winning and Booker-shortlisted novel We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves.) In this book, the author explains that she was struck by the headlines about (yet another) mass shooting and began to wonder about the family of the perpetrator: What can they do with their love for someone who has done something so heinous? And then she thought, why not choose perhaps the most reviled killer in US history: John Wilkes Booth, assassin of Abraham Lincoln? All it took was a bit of research to convince her that she’d found exactly the right subject. Wilkes was one of 10 children (six surviving into adulthood) of famed tragedian actor Junius Booth, the most acclaimed Shakespearean actor of his time in the US. But to call the family shambolic hardly begins to cover it. Junius was a womanizer and prodigious alcoholic, earning great sums and pissing it all away, leaving his family close to starvation at times while he was away on lengthy tours. Edwin, one of the brothers, followed in his father’s acting footsteps, eventually achieving as much success as his father had. John Wilkes also tried acting, but he was wildly unreliable, drunk and erratic and unable to learn his lines. There’s much that is known about the family and much that is indistinguishable from rumour and myth, but Fowler does an amazing job of fictionalizing this entirely fascinating brood, placing John Wilkes Booth firmly in context as just a beloved member of a family and the beliefs and context that might have driven him to the fateful moment in the Ford Theatre. Brilliantly researched, imagined, and written. I found it hard to put the book down and was sad to leave its deftly drawn world.

„What if you were suddenly offered everything you ever wanted, but the offer came in a voice so sad, with a face so sorry, it made you wonder if you‘d ever wanted it at all?“ What a beautiful novel. So poetically written, embedding excerpts of Lincoln‘s speeches and Shakespeare‘s plays. I could dive into the story easily. In fact, it felt so natural that I had to fact-check what’s real and what fiction. I loved the tragic dynamic between the characters. When Asia spoke to Rosalie, or father spoke to Edwin, I could really hear it. The implementation of ghosts they could speak to casually was great. It felt dark and somewhat tense entirely throughout. Also, beautiful cover and a fair price. What more could one ask for? My only complaint is that some parts in later chapters were phrased too convolutedly, but I could make sense of it later on. 4.9

This is historical fiction at its best. Compulsively readable, gorgeously written, with fully alive and complex characters. Fowler had her work cut out for her, choosing to focus on the notorious Booth family; they were (in)famous before John Wilkes. The book is heavy on description and very light on actual dialogue, which adds to a sort of dreamy distance. The family was tormented by ghosts from the beginning, setting each of them up to be a tragic character. This is not to say that the book is wholly sympathetic to the Booths; they are deeply flawed, broken people trying to make life worth living. As noted by my shelves, I received an e-galley of this book in exchange for my honest review.

The children of Junius Booth grow up in the shadow of their father's fame as both a Shakespearean actor and a drunken eccentric. Most of the sons aspire to a career in the theater, and Edwin will eventually be heralded as a great actor. Rosalie aspires to leave the family home one way or another, but she's needed at her mother's side. Asia aspires to a life of beauty and purpose, and she loves her family with fierce intensity, especially her brother John. As the favored child, John Wilkes is indulged despite getting into frequent trouble, because it's understood within the Booth family that he's destined for greatness. This novel is a wonderful addition to one of my favorite genres, historical fiction that closely follows the known facts of a person or event, but gets to invent the small moments and interior lives of the characters. The fascinating Booth family provided plenty of material for Fowler to draw on, but she also had plenty of room for invention, and she portrays each family member with care and nuance. As always in Fowler's writing, the narrative is full of sharp observations and dry humor that conveys the humanity of these historical figures, even the infamous assassin. The tension of reading toward a historically inevitable outcome pulled me through the pages, but I also kept wanting to slow down and savor the well-crafted paragraphs. BOOTH was everything I hoped it would be, and then some.

Thank you to Penguin Group Putnam and NetGalley for providing an advance copy of this book in exchange for my honest review. The book will be published on March 8th, 2022. Writing: 4/5 Characters: 4.5/5 Plot: 4/5 What an unusual book. It is a fictionalized history of the Booth family from 1822 to 1865 when its most infamous member — John Wilkes — shot Abraham Lincoln. John Wilkes is kept as an important but minor character throughout until his action at the end tears everything apart. The story is told from the perspective of three of his siblings: “poor” Rosalie, the eldest daughter who remains a spinster family caretaker for life; Edwin, who becomes the leading tragedian of the 19th century; and Asia, the youngest daughter and eventual poet and writer. Fowler is a fantastic writer — every book she writes is completely different and spans topics and genres easily. In this — her first fictionalized history — she brings the place and time to life in incredible physical, political, and every day life detail. Following their lives in rural Maryland, Baltimore, and later Philadelphia, New York, and then California (including a harrowing description of the trip across the 40-mile Panamanian isthmus, pre-canal) we are immersed in the attitudes and experiences of a very different time. Fowler doesn’t modernize sentiments — we are treated to multiple attitudes towards women, immigrants, and slavery. Having read a lot about the time period, I found them to be accurate and comprehensive. As examples, the family’s patriarch — Junius Brutus Booth (a famous Shakespearean actor of the time) — didn’t like slavery but had two slaves; John Wilkes declaimed frequently on the value of slavery and the tyranny of the North; and various speeches (including Lincoln’s, Douglas’ and others) offer additional viewpoints. I had to keep remembering I was reading a book which while novel-like had to adhere to actual history so while some details seemed extraneous to the plot, they were not extraneous to the lives of those living through them. For me it was a bit of a slow start — I let myself be unhappy that I was having to read a book about someone I did not want to know more about and of course, knowing what happens at the end, I had a kind of dread creeping up on me. However, if you can avoid the kinds of destructive thoughts I was having, it really is gripping reading, and the assassination and aftermath actually takes up a very small part of the end of the book.

i felt so sad reading this, but there was so much beauty in the writing and the way the author captured that brother/sister relationship. it felt like the kind of beauty that hurts and illuminates, all at the same time

It’s rare enough for a book to hit you right in the feels but this beautiful new novel from Irish author Elaine Feeney did just that to me. I was completely captivated by it. Set in the West of Ireland, the novel is an achingly beautiful and real portrayal of love, loss, grief, fitting in and the power of actively choosing what and who you love in the face of society’s expectations. It gave me that same feeling I get reading Louise Kennedy’s writing - just so gorgeous, it almost hurts to read it. Feeney puts toxic masculinity and the old boys’ club under the microscope, with an institution at the centre of the story that will resonate with any Irish reader - a single sex Catholic boys’ school, the only school in town and the personal fiefdom of its principal, Fr Faulks. At the centre of the story is Jamie, a 13 year old neurodivergent boy starting secondary school. Jamie is looked after at school by teachers Tess and Tadhg, who generously take him under their wing and help him fulfil his dream of building a perpetual motion machine, while dealing with their own respective unprocessed grief and sadness. Tess and Tadhg are wonderful characters, beautifully realised and so memorable. The story slowly builds - Jamie’s sections are almost stream of consciousness. He comes across as authentic and real, and very funny. The dialogue in the book is spot on (though there are no quotation marks, if that bothers you). Jamie even skewers Jordan Peterson at one point (here for it). There’s a tenderness to the book - it’s an ode to teachers and the wonderful job they do of nurturing students, especially in schools that are inhospitable to students who don’t fit within the box. It also speaks to the value of being true to yourself, and having the courage to take the path that’s right for you, as opposed to the one expected of you. There’s a slowish chapter on boat-building (a currach) which some may find a bit of a slog, but if you can stick with it, the rewards are mighty. Tears rolled down my face for the last couple of chapters. I really loved it. 4.5/5 rounded up. I expect to see this on prize lists. Bravo Elaine Feeney. *Many thanks to the author, the publisher @harvillsecker and @netgalley for the arc. How To Build A Boat was published on 20 April. As always, this is an honest review.*

Fantastic book, might reread it once I finish the longlist. Liked it even more the second time

I LOVED the feel of this book, from the very beginning. I don’t know why?… Maybe because it was based in Ireland and written by an incredibly talented IRISH author; they always gain a special place in my heart. I instantly fell in love with little Jaime; he was so quirky, and not afraid to be who he was. He loves trees, the colour red, he loves patterns, and books with dust jackets. Winter was his favourite season, November being his favourite month. November was the month because it was predictable nothing much happened but there was a heavy darkness covering the time like a weighted blanket. I’m pretty sure Jaime was autistic as many of you will know by now I am also autistic; which is why I think I connected with him so much so quickly. As Jaime enters Secondary school, we are also introduced to the Additional Needs teacher, Tess. She could not be nicer, in fact I wish I had her when I was at school. After a few weeks Jaime really bonded with her and she became a real driving force for Jaime. Jaime considered her a friend, a ‘guide, counsellor, teacher, nature lover’. She made school possible for a wonderful kid like Jaime. She also introduces him to this woodworking teacher, who again wants to get Jaime involved in a project he loves; together they come up with and complete the concept of ‘how to build a boat’. It is an all hands in project and a nod to Jaime’s mother, Noelle, whom he never met. We also learn about Tess’s life. She isn’t having it easy despite the happy face she puts on for Jaime. She is going through IVF with her partner and finding it extremely challenging and exhausting. But despite her own relationship problems, she always makes a place for Jaime and she is determined to make school a good place for Jaime. Soulful. Heartwarming. Completely absorbing. Wonderfully written. And full of human complexity’s and emotions. Definitely one of my FAVOURITE reads of 2024!

4.5⭐️ rounded up

A beautiful, honest and empathetic story with flowing poetic prose and gorgeous deeply human characters- what’s not to love! I loved Jamie’s perspective. A 13 year old, neurodivrse boy starting secondary school who extremely observant of others and his surroundings. I loved the approach to themes of masculinity. Boys growing in to men, stifled by some of their own educators, influenced by the likes of Jordan Peterson and also full of beautiful potential that they sometimes fail to see in themselves (lovely Mr. Tadhg Foley especially ❤️) I loved how this story has a social commentary about Irish Catholic boarding schools and ask its reader to consider the unfair standards and pressures these institutions put on their students. I loved the approach to the topic of grief. Jamie’s mother died soon after he was born. He and his father are still grieving and dealing with guilt and anger over her death. Tess, our main female character, an English and supports teacher to Jamie, in a way is also grieving. Her marriage is failing and through the novel she grieves a life she may have once wanted. I loved how community is at the core of this novel. Can you tell I loved it?

How to Build a Boat By Elaine Feeney Penguin Random House April 2023 “As You Were” was always going to be a hard act to follow. I couldn’t put it down. Elaine Feeney created such vivid characters, you urgently wanted to know what happened each one, so it was a race to the end, late night reading stuff. So, how was EF going to follow this – it was a brilliant debut. Anyway, I needn’t have worried. I was lucky enough to get an advanced reading copy from Penguin Random House of her new novel “How to Build a Boat”, and I was riveted from the start. She has taken off in another direction, but her empathy for her characters, her obvious inside knowledge of school environments (especially boys’ schools), a wonderful, uplifting story, all combine to make this to be one of my best reading experiences of the past few years. Jamie, the central character, has just made the move to secondary school. He doesn’t feel like he fits into his new environment. His mother died in childbirth and he has pursued her memory ever since. The principal of his new school doesn’t really want special children like Jamie in the school, but Jamie soon finds some allies and supporters on the teaching staff, especially Tess and Tadhg and a few of his fellow students. With his teacher Tadhg, Jamie plans and builds a currach, and in the process changes the lives of those around him, including his still grief-stricken father. Jamie is such a vividly created person, that I felt very deeply for him as he tries to make sense of his world and the loss of his mother. This book is about love, grief, pain and creativity. I recommend it to anyone. I would also love every teacher and school principal to read it, including those interested in special education needs, and the current debate around single-sex education and coeducation. As a former teacher and school principal myself, this book brought me back to my own experiences and made me think I would have loved to read this wonderful book 40 years ago. I would have looked at the world of my students differently. How To Build a Boat https://www.penguin.co.uk/books/44821...

4.5 stars. What a superb read. I can see why it made the Booker Prize longlist 2023. Such an incredibly moving story with a host of great characters. It made me cry, it made me fume with anger and frustration on behalf of the protagonists and rile against those causing them hurt, and filled my heart with joy when the central protagonists formed their own friendship grouping. The book touches on some big themes, such as IVF, marriage struggles, death of a parent, neurodivergence, and being an outsider, to name but a few. It is character driven and slow paced, and beautifully written. #howtobuildaboat #elainefeeney

Really loved „how to build a boat“, couldn’t put it down. Set in the West of Ireland, with lovely authentic characters and poetic pasages on building boats and colors.

Am I gaslighting myself or did I really love this book? Honestly, I think I loved it and let me explain. Reading the blurb (which I didn't read until after I finished the book) this sounds like a Frederick Bachman novel and that is not my jam at all. I like dark books, I don't like "feel good" stories, and sometimes characters like Jamie grate my last nerve. Maybe I was just in the right headspace. It was that story - where a bullied-misfit kid with all the odds against him ends up with a group of people supporting him on a project. Some of the characters were flawed and amazing and some were caricatures. None the less the great ones were really great. I liked the writing and the way the author wove in really beautiful moments into the building of a boat. It made my cold, dark, heart ... happy. Though the story has been done before I found 3 of the 4 main characters really interesting and I thought building the message into the boat was a unique perspective. I kind of think this is going to be shortlisted.

5 - a gorgeous novel about connection and community (+ extra points for being about the impact of good teachers on young people)

How to Build a Boat by Elaine Feeney was published April 20th with Harvill Secker and has just been nominated as one of thirteen books for The Booker Prize 2023 longlist. Set in a town on the west coast of Ireland How to Build a Boat is the story of young Jamie O' Neill as he makes the transition into secondary school. Jamie struggles with change. He has lived with his Dad all his life, as his mother died in childbirth. His Dad is doing his best and has always championed Jamie but it hasn't been without its challenges. Routine is very important to Jamie. As neurodivergent, having everything in order, with a sense of being in control, is vital to his everyday living. Jamie loves the work of Edgar Allan Poe and his plan is to build a perpetual motion machine that will enable him to connect with his mother. Today though, he just has to walk two thousand, eight hundred and sixteen steps to his new school Christ's College along a well-planned route. On this same day Tess Mahon, a teacher at Christ's College, is prepping herself psychologically for the day, term and year ahead. Tess is struggling in her personal life, as her relationship with her husband, Paul, is close to collapse. After many unsuccessful IVF attempts, Tess is questioning her life choices, looking back over her own past, doubting the path she has taken. Going into school, she is off-kilter and no longer feeling herself. But then she crosses paths with Jamie O' Neill. Tess has always been the special needs assistant in the school but Christ's College is a testosterone-infused environment that supports male dominance and strength. The principal has very little time for weakness, meaning that Tess's student population is shrinking. Tadhg Foley is a new teacher at Christ's College. He has come from an island off the west coast, where he has spent most of his life, and will now be the woodwork teacher. Tadhg has very little time for rules and lives an off-the-grid type of lifestyle. He is a strong believer in the term meitheal, which is an old Irish term that originated from when neighbours got together to offer a helping hand to each other when needed. It denotes community and a feeling of belonging. Tadhg abhors bullying behaviour and sees it happening in Christ's College from the top down. He makes an unlikely connection with Tess and together they collectively sense a need to help young Jamie O' Neill and his dream to build his perpetual motion machine. Amidst the noise, the misogynistic environment and the general mayhem of Christ's College, Jamie O' Neill finds his meitheal. In the woodwork classroom, a curragh designed by Tadhg, which is a type of Irish boat, historically used by the islanders, becomes a project that allows Jamie to be part of something, to be part of a team. He is dubious about the success of this new venture but he soon becomes distracted by it, allowing him to bypass the chaos that surrounds him. 'They never stop. Wood never rests. It is always seasoning, And moving.' Jamie, Tess and Tadhg develop a beautiful bond as the novel progresses, with each of them taking brave steps forward into a new world. Their characters are all wonderfully depicted and given the space to develop as we get insights into their backgrounds and their individual stories. Elaine Feeney has created a profound and heart-warming tale, with an easy flow that twists and turns as the book progresses. As a poet, Elaine Feeney understands words and the meanings behind them while also knowing that, at times, less is more. Jamie, Tess and Tadhg are three lost souls who find joy in an unexpected community where they learn to freely express themselves and shine a little brighter. How to Build a Boat is an uplifting novel, one that will leave every reader hopeful and optimistic. The boat is an analogy for something bigger, something transformative and it is this exploration that really captivates and makes this novel a very special one.

4.5 I don't know what I've just read, and I don't have nearly enough answers, but I really did love it... Exactly my kind of SF - it's like Interstellar meets Arrival, meets Jeff VanderMeer. If you like any of those I can't see how you wouldn't love it. I've read Martin before with Infinite Ground, which I have to say sticks in my mind as one of the most infuriating books I have ever read... but In Ascension is far more readable, and much more accessible. It's still slightly infuriatingly ambiguous, and at the moment I'm torn between feeling like I could interpret it many different ways, or I'm not quite clever enough to truly get it... I might update this review once I've spoken to other readers 😄 But make no mistake, it's utterly compelling and truly engrossing. If you like books with big ideas then you have to give this a go.

My God, this was magnificent. A hard SF novel – think ‘Bewilderment’ by Richard Powers, but written by Kim Stanley Robinson – that is not afraid to go for good old-fashioned sense of wonder. The ending: numinous, ambiguous, terrifying, jaw-dropping. A difficult read, likely even to alienate SF fans too much in their comfort zone, ultimately revelatory and exculpatory. A golden thread of utopianism, grassroots decoloniality, and individual nihilism that truly ascends.

This book forced me to focus on one book at a time. What power. Some things went over my head, and sometimes I was in over my head, but overall, this was a fascinating piece of science fiction (a genre I don’t read all that often). The best sections were the ones where Leigh was on part of a voyage (sea and space): “Endeavour” and “Neurus.” For now, 5 stars, could be 4 or 4.5. Will reflect.

Wow, I loved this! It’s about life and life cycles, how it began, how it ends and everything from single cell organisms to humans. There’s lots of mystery, nothing is fully explained still I was immersed in the writing and found it hard to stop reading. The ending is the beginning.

In Ascension has been slowly getting media attention, and most of it positive. i can see why: the plot is intelligent, characters are believable and the writing is superb. Not to mention it’s a layered story open to interpretation. Leigh is a victim of physical abuse from her father when she was young. These incidents have shaped her thought processes and her career as a marine biologist (I guess that’s on can call her) as she finds the water as an escape from all problems. Her main speciality is discovering the source of life through single celled organisms, which later develops into Algae cell regeneration. One day a trench is discovered in the Atlantic Ocean and Leigh and a team have discovered that the trench yields some discoveries. Furthermore later on in the book another trench is discovered in space and also yields messages from beyond. In a way I was reminded of Carl Sagan’s Contact : Although that was also about human and alien contact it also treated deeper feelings and In Ascension does the same; Leigh talks about her relationship with her ailing mother and the on and off one she has with her younger sister Helen but her relationship with father leaves an impact. When Leigh has to go to outer space in order to investigate she focuses on how her family will take it. The other relationships which are the main focus of the book is how humankind’s origins lay in the stars and, well, everything around us from vast outer space to the deep ocean, the link to our existence lays there and Martin MacInnes brings this out beautifully, and tragically as well. The writing, as I said, is fantastic. There’s a mot of warmth and humanity plus quite a bit of scientific jargon but don’t let that put you off, This is a highly addictive read that will pique your curiosity with each page. I wish I can say that this is a perfect novel. At times I did feel that there was a loss of focus at times but whenever these moments occurred Martin MacInnes easily places you back in the story with some of Leigh’s backstory or her connection to a family member. To return to Carl Sagan – his famous quote about being made of star stuff is one of the main themes of In Ascension and I think it’s done excellently. In Ascension is a powerful, astute work and I can see it as a landmark work.

Just incredible.

This novel seizes you from the very first page and refuses to let go. It is a story that will leave you contemplative, as you journey with Leigh into the deepest depths of the ocean and the furthest reaches of your own mind. Leigh's story is familiar – a young girl seeking solace from an unhappy home life and finding it in the natural world around her. But as the novel progresses, it becomes clear that something far more profound is at play. As Leigh travels the globe to study ancient organisms and join an exploration team investigating a newly discovered trench in the Atlantic, she discovers something that calls into question everything we think we know about our own beginnings. It offers a journey into the unknown, an exploration of the depths of the ocean, infinite space and the human psyche. It is a story that asks us to contemplate the mysteries of existence, confront our deepest fears and desires, and grapple with the complexities of memory, family, aloneness, and closeness. What makes In Ascension truly remarkable, however, is its ability to transcend genre and defy easy categorization. Part sci-fi, part literary fiction - this is a novel that will make you question everything you think you know about the world and the universe. It is a book that will stay with you long after you've finished reading, a constant reminder of the mysteries that lie just beneath the surface of our everyday lives. MacInnes' prose is like a current, pulling us ever deeper into the depths of Leigh's world, and his themes are like the tides, ebbing and flowing with a natural rhythm that echoes the mysteries of the universe. This is a book that is both familiar and strange, a paradoxical work that challenges our very sense of self and our place in the cosmos. In Ascension is not just a story, but a meditation on the human condition, a call to embrace the unknown and to seek out the beauty and wonder that lies beyond the boundaries of our everyday lives. It is a reminder that the mysteries of the universe are as infinite and profound as the depths of the ocean, and that to truly understand our place in the world, we must be willing to dive deep and explore the unknown.

CN. Child Abuse (Violence), Deep Water, Deep Space This is an early, but strong contender for my favourite read of. 2025. It took me a minute to warm up to the cold, gothic sci-fi tone of this book, but once I was in I was absolutely hooked and couldn't get enough! I have been caught in an autistic loop that I hope writing this here will help me break: This would make an exquisite second part of a double feature with Our Wives Under the Sea by Julia Armfield. There is a purposeful and poetic elliptical cycle throughout the novel, which is heightened by the almost anachronistic timelessness that feels like it almost stretches from Moby Dick to Stellaris and the birth of individual cells to the potential for biological singularity. The revelatory discombobulation is only in increased by the clinical, almost maudlin perspective of the lone, yet connected, protagonist, which blooms into heady, intoxicating descriptions of biology and emotion. This is a love letter to the building blocks and potential of life and the miraculous improbability that lead to us and that could lead to so much more. While entirely it's own story, I was reminded of other spectacular stories that touch upon certain elements, themes, and experiences, Julia Armfield's Our Wives Under the Sea, Jeff Vandermeer's Annihilation, Adrian Tchaikovsky's Alien Clay, and Stanisław Lem's Stellaris (although with the latter, I am coming from the 1972 film with the novel being very high on my tbr), all of which I love dearly. I thoroughly enjoyed the audiobook and Freya Miller's brilliant narration, but I know this is a novel I will absolutely return to in text form to really revel in reading. Phenomenal stuff! Also, the science and history facts sprinkled through this are spectacular and mind-boggling, although I was having a rough day today and that one fact about the Manhatten Project really did a number on me and I did have a little panic attack, but that's not the book's fault.

I wouldn't have thought it possible to write a book devoted to a 3-minute phone call. However, Kadare does it, and does it well. A fascinating analysis and speculation about the historic event.

4,5* Epigrafas: 'Contradiction alone is the proof that we are not everything. Contradiction is our wretchedness, and the sense of our wretchedness is the sense of reality. For we do not invent our wretchedness. It is true. That is why we have value it. All the rest is imaginary.' -Simone Weil, Gravity And Grace, 1947 Andrzej Tichý - čekų- lenkų - švedų rašytojas. Aštuonių paragrafų sąmonės srauto pasakojimas. Apie 'white-trash things'. Apie rytų Europos jaunuolius-imigrantus Švedijoje. Apie tuos, kuriems dėl įvairiausių priežasčių ne(pa)siseka. Tikrai sugebėjo šis pasakojimas palįsti man po oda, nors ir nebuvo labai originalaus - nei stiliumi, nei konstrukcija, nei temomis... Patiko pasakojimo lyriškas grubumas, nuskambėjęs beviltiškai, bet kartu lyg ir su sunkiai įžiūrimomis kruopelytėm vilties. Daug žargono, kurio tikrai įkandau tik mažąją dalį, bet buvo įdomu. Greičiausiai angliškas vertimas yra puikus, nes knyga pateko į International Booker Prize (2021) ilgąjį sąrašą. O laimi prizą ir aut. ir vertėja(-s). Beje, autoriui pavyko nuvainikuoti Švediją. Aš priklausiau tiems, kurie apie šią šalį turėjo labai gerą nuomonę ;)) [...]'it's beautiful, and it was true in a way, cos it is, it is beautiful, in its way, even if it's ugly' [...] [...] 'the Easter European kids fuck themselves in the arse with turquoise double-enders, their tender, oozing dreams flowing like pure shit, what's happening, man, how hard can life be, really, if we're honest, and how tender is it to die by your own hand, just how, how focused do you have to be, yeah, yeah,' [...] 'Tichý writes a delirious, detailed prose, studded with Malmö slang and contemporary verve. The language pours forth over the pages like a contaminated river, full of filth, despair and anxiety, an associative flow of long, disjointed, almost endless sentences.' -Eva Johansson, Svenska Dagbladet

The style of this book made for an exhilarating read… an exhausting one. Every time I took a break, I'd feel like I was coming out of a fog. The style is steam-of-consciousness to the extreme (no paragraph breaks, run-on sentences, zero indication of who's speaking), a style I loved in my favorite book of last year, Hurricane Season. Here, the style feels even more exasperating (multiple characters speaking at once, book references, music references, long-winded conversations, drug trips). It took a lot more work and effort. But as I was reading, I kept wondering how this was going to come together. Was this going to turn out to be just an "empty" creative writing experiment? It isn't. It all came together in the end in such a satisfying way. I'm a huge fan of this.

This book was amazing (I would recommend people to have Spotify open to listen to the tracks he makes musical references to, but a lot of them are common knowledge for people who listened to early Hip Hop). This work is so well done it really puts us in the shoes of the protagonist who is confusing his past with his current life and fading back and forth between times to realize that if he didn’t walk away he would end up like Connor. I loved the Hesse references as it was pure coincidence I picked up this book after Narcissus and Goldmund. He experiences a multitude of drugs and describes them with great detail to his readers in a very accurate tone which people who have dealt / used anything will relate to but also realize that not everyone can walk away. I loved this book, but would recommend to a certain group of people - definitely not something mainstream to read.

For a very short novel, this was a hard read. Difficult but worth the effort. Written in Stream of consciousness by a immigrant cellist on the way to a concert and during the concert. Cody is trigger by a man on a bicycle and takes on his journey from Eastern Europe to Scandinavia. We are buried in his life as a junkie and thug. I read it every day in small checks to savor the images, but also because I was not able to hold so much powerful writing. Long listed for the Booker International and a Translation Prize. Nicki Smalley translated it.

Ha, ha, and Ha, for good measure. This is very fun and playful and boy, did I have some trepidation going in. Mental health is generally handled pretty poorly. In this, a fictional author, who has come across a salacious book on psychiatry by an enigmatic (again, fictional) author, finds himself in a position of using a story that is unverifiable and tied to the psychiatrist in question: Collins Braithwaite. Conjoining this windfall of a novel with the authors own research into the figure, this novel creates a liminal space where the voracity of the author writing it is in question, as well as the fictional characters in the novel and the biography on Braithwaite (which references further fictional accolades, of course). If you’re thinking Borges-esk, you wouldn’t be wrong. There are some references in both that are real-world and correct. Things like movies and random books. Also, some characters, such as Braithwaite’s lover, Zelda, seem pretty “inspired” by writers. Hedonistic party romps in the 60s have the couple more than a little reminiscent of the writer(s) of The Great Gatsby. Primarily, the text is concerned with positing the idea of the self constantly evolving or shifting, kind of like code switching, or roles actors play. And that there is a kind of “madness” in everyone, if that’s the case. At what point is someone’s persona a reality? and what happens when we acknowledge these alternate personas for what they are? Rather than go into an actual diagnostic of the protagonist in the novel, it’s much more concerned about the themes, which then cascade into the alternate components of the narrative in a very playful intertextuality. Prose work took a bit to get used to, then became absolutely captivating. It’s the write level of pretension for me; both with the character herself, as well as the concept of the novel. It even has some meta humour that lands with me, such as an epilogue where people write into the author of the novel compiled as a second printing note, where they complain about the inaccuracies in the fiction to the physicality of London itself. When and if this gets its hooks in you, I hope you’ll enjoy as much as I did. Wonderful.

Graeme Macrae Burnet is an expert at creating something fictional and making it seems realistic, more than that, he can make you believe that the event or person actually existed. Such was the case of His Bloody Project, which was about a fictional murder taking place in 1869, disguised as true crime. Once again, he does the same thing with Case Study. The book begins with the author (presumably) being given six notebooks which contain information about the (fictional) psychotherapist Collins Braithwaite. The notebooks themselves were written by a lady who thinks that Braithwaite drove her sister to commit suicide. In order to pull off her investigation she assumes a false persona. As she visits Braithwaite, she starts believing in her new identity and Braithwaite’s unorthodox methods of psychotherapy create confusion, until it comes to a point where this character by coming to terms with her past is creating an inward battle of her real persona and fake one. This is all quite meta. To add to this, GMB creates a complete biography of Braithwaite which conclude each notebook, which does help tie up some details found within with the lady’s narrative. The actual murder itself is just a cover up. What really emerges from the text are a number of themes. Mainly reality vs fiction. All the characters battle with an unreal self, yet what differentiates these characters is how they deal with it, Despite Braithwaite being seen as a crackpot, there is a lot of good advice which does make sense and help us understand why we are all phonies. Case Study also doubles as a history of psychotherapy. As I stated before, Graeme Macrae Burnet is a stickler for detail, which is why his plots mirror reality so well. There is historical accuracy so it is interesting to see how the discipline developed and was viewed. Incidentally does the main protagonist manage to solve the mystery? It’s open to interpretation. That’s all I’m going to say here. Did I like the book? I loved it. The writing, plot, characters. Everything was brilliant. Case Study played around with my brain and made me giggle a bit in the process as there are quite a few humorous moments. One thing though, I hope that GMB never becomes a minister of propaganda he’d be too good at his job and make us ordinary citizens believe a lot of things.

I really enjoyed the three books I’ve previously read by Graeme Macrae Burnet (The Disappearance of Adèle Bedeau (2014), His Bloody Project (2015), and The Accident on the A35 (2017)) so I was keen to read Case Study (2021). Case Study is another gem. An intertwined tale. One strand focusses on the life and times of Collins Braithwaite, briefly a celebrated therapist and author of the 1960s anti-psychiatry movement. The second strand is about “Rebecca Smyth” a character who suspects her sister’s suicide may have been the result of her consultations with Collins Braithwaite. Revealing anything else would diminish the pleasure of a cleverly structured and potentially unreliable narrative that embraces the social attitudes of the 1960s, anti-psychiatry, identity, and the 60s counterculture. It’s both amusing and provocative. I was engrossed from start to finish. 5/5 More about Case Study (2021)… “I have decided to write down everything that happens, because I feel, I suppose, I may be putting myself in danger.” London, 1965. An unworldly young woman believes that a charismatic psychotherapist, Collins Braithwaite, has driven her sister to suicide. Intent on confirming her suspicions, she assumes a false identity and presents herself to him as a client, recording her experiences in a series of notebooks. But she soon finds herself drawn into a world in which she can no longer be certain of anything. Even her own character. In Case Study, Graeme Macrae Burnet presents these notebooks interspersed with his own biographical research into Collins Braithwaite. The result is a dazzling – and often wickedly humorous – meditation on the nature of sanity, identity and truth itself, by one of the most inventive novelists writing today.

quite literally could not put this down… ill put more later goodnight edit: i haven’t stayed up until 5am just to finish reading something in a while, this book was impossible to close and when i did manage to i couldn’t stop thinking about it. both “rebecca” and braithwaite were SUCH interesting characters to read about. “rebecca”’s unraveling and the battle between herself and her persona reminded me a lot of black swan in a way. going into this i thought i would favour the journals more but i ended up enjoying the biography parts just as much. i think my favourite aspect though had to be the actual therapy sessions. reading about how these two characters interacted with eachother was thrilling. in general this book was so engaging though, i love how the biography aspect was where you got to connect a lot of what braithwaite believed to his sessions with “rebecca” and how in her attempts to uncover the mystery of her sister in part became braithwaite’s self/Self theory but manifesting in that more sinister black swan esc way. **spoilers** the validity of it all getting called into question at the end too was a fun touch, i think going into this i was expecting there to be a more cut and dry ending but honestly after finishing this i don’t think the lack of it is a disservice to the story at all.

This was a particularly excellent novel. Worth noting that the author published a blog post before this books release, in which he was effectively playing a narrative voice. I read it before even hearing of the book's release, I won't risk spoiling it, but this small detail I particularly love, signs that he is going above and beyond to make Case Study a compelling read. No irony is lost on Burnet. Well worth checking out on his Goodreads page before you read the book. The main narrative voice grated at first but I soon got used to it. A character study rather than a thriller, this will suit those interested in psychology, and novels which explore complexity of character, specifically around moral subjects, such as Crime and Punishment. The writer is open hearted and able to explore the inner lives of a wide variety of personality types. This book experiments with narrative voice, same as his other works, and is wickedly funny. What is done particularly well is the blend of fact and fiction. Some passages in the first 75 or so pages felt frivolous at first, however contained subtleties that were later built upon.

So I read this as a buddy read (which was immense fun) so the novel was split into 5 sections which I think really ratcheted the intrigue and tension up. For me this book is an absolute triumph and how it did let make it onto the Booker shortlist is simply incomprehensible. We are introduced to the book by the author who gives a brief explanation of how he came to have the notebooks that make up some of the narrative. The rest is a biography of the psychotherapist. It quickly becomes evident that Braithwaite, the psychotherapist, and the unnamed writer of the notebooks are maybe not quite who they seem to be. We then embark upon a roller coaster ride detailing the lives of both. I liked the end but opinions in the buddy read group were divided. However I loved this book. The writing and the premise are interesting and original. I immediately downloaded His Bloody Project by the same author. I'd highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys something a little different to a conventional story.

to be exact, it’s 4.7 ⭐️ I have to gather my thoughts first, not promising any proper review here but it was a good read for me. A really thought-provoking and I’m glad I read it, worth all the way!

Given the monastic pacing of Charlotte Wood’s “Stone Yard Devotional,” I suppose it’s appropriate that we’ve had to wait patiently for it. Wood’s fellow Australians have been praising this story about a small abbey of nuns since the novel was published in 2023. Last year, it was a finalist for Britain’s Booker Prize. And now, as though publishing were operating by steam ship, “Stone Yard Devotional” has finally arrived in the United States. It’s just as extraordinary as the whispers from abroad suggested. But don’t recommend it to your book club because if some of your members don’t like it — and some certainly won’t — you may not have the stamina to tolerate them any longer. The unnamed narrator of “Stone Yard Devotional” is a woman of a certain age who’s joined a remote Catholic order — or, if not joined, at least moved in. With a caustic sense of wit and an unrelenting critical eye, she’s hardly the typical postulant. She’s troubled by “the savagery of the Catholic Church.” Shoveling compost is the closest she ever gets to prayer. She’s nauseated by sisters prattling on about how they “fell in love with Jesus.” Nobody asks, but she confesses that she’s an atheist. And yet, for all the narrator’s self-conscious rejections of religion, “Stone Yard Devotional” is a deeply spiritual novel. Marilynne Robinson’s Calvinist heart might protest, but this tale of sojourn among the nuns is founded on the same rock of introspection that anchors the “Gilead” series. It’s a years-long night wrestling with an angel capable of dislocating a thigh or a life. Wood’s narrator pursues fundamentally spiritual concerns: What is our purpose? Can we be forgiven for acts of callousness and neglect? Why are we here? Why the narrator is here in this abbey is a source of persistent mystery at the center of “Stone Yard Devotional.” On her first visit, she says, “The place has the feel of a 1970s health resort or eco-commune, but is not.... To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

A core impacting novel. When I finished Stone Yard Devotional, I had many thoughts and ideas shooting off inside my mind. In fact my mind felt like it was caught in the middle of old west gun battle. Firstly, I don't know if I dreamt the setting for Stone Yard Devotional or had long conversations with my mum years ago, about visiting a NSW rural convent to have an immersive experience. For many years I've sprouted to friends and family, I'm the atheist nun. I've my reasons, beyond a fascination with ritual, sacrifice, and austere living. The question at the heart of Stone Yard Devotional is forgiveness, how does forgiveness work? Especially self forgiveness? A daughter - mother relationship that comes into its own, in analysis, analysis that leans into the stories that happen around us, and with us. The observations that are often only made many years later. Understanding that's only possible (perhaps) when time has past. As for grief - some of us are knitted with it. Grief is not other. Grief frames process, ways of living, and even choices. Solitude is a vehicle to understanding Solitude is the miracle Stone Yard Devotional is my favourite Charlotte Wood novel, to date. It will sit with me always, and it will live on my shelf - there anytime I need it.

Brilliant. I will think about it for a long time.

When I was a schoolgirl, I had to memorize William Wordsworth’s sonnet, The World is Too Much With Us, and throughout reading Stone Yard Devotional, the words ran through my head. This is the story of an unnamed Australian narrator – an atheist who leaves the city life and her marriage behind and takes her place in a small cloistered religious retreat. There she experiences the “unholy trinity” – an infestation of mice, the return of the bones of a nun who left the community to minister to abused women in Thailand and met an untimely death, and finally, the visitation of Helen Parry who has become a superstar activist. Unlike the narrator, Helen Parry is mentioned by both her names and brings back dark memories of the narrator’s unkind actions toward her a lifetime ago. The novel takes place in the early days of COVID, a time when Australia did indeed face a mouse plague, and when the outside world became even more frightening. Our narrator reflects, “I am filled with mourning…for all the extinctions and threats, flooded once again with the knowledge that nothing outside these abbey walls is well, and no manner of things shall be well. And I know that inside these walls, Helen Parry is the only one who will face that truth.” At a point of time when our nation – our world – is facing so many existential threats and so much cruelty, Charlotte Wood begs us to consider: is there any place, inside or outside of our mind, that we can truly take refuge? Is abdication of the world the answer or is it more likely that everyone who chooses the path of the narrator has hurt someone by coming? Can anyone truly forgive another who has hurt them badly, and how do we go about finding that shred of forgiveness? Is there meaning in suffering? And most of all, what does it mean to “be good”, given our human nature? How do we ever move from despair to hope? The mice, which gnaw through the pages of the book and eventually, our minds, are both literal and metaphorical. Not unlike humans, they destroy everything in their path, including their habitat, their deceased brethren, and even the face of a peace dove. This atmospheric and introspective novel deserves its short listing for the Booker Prize and is both profound and timely.

Another six star novel. Breathtakingly beautiful and fantastically read on audible. It took me a while to find my way in it (I had started it several times before) until I realised there was no way to be had and like some of the other novels I have read this year I needed to let go. I did and travelled with the narrator on her meditative journey about the past, forgiveness, grief and change. I need to get myself a hard copy but I would love to see how this was laid out - the paragraphs melted into each other. The narrator is an atheist but despite that she finds some kind of consolation in a religious community and in that sense it is a hopeful novel. It touched many nerves for me and made me smile many times. Compost and putting things back into the earth runs through the novel as a trope - I have been creating my own permaculture world this year and absolute joy of composting and creating a whole new cycle of material to grow from has been a highlight for me. This idea of the cyclical nature of life is so central to the book and so beautifully explored. Next morning. I have just woken up the next morning to something cold running up my arm. I had heard my cat and imagined she had brought something in - a frog or something. But no, it was a mouse. Managed to catch it and save its little life but what an appropriate gift Ludwig brought me today.

I loved this. I can't fully name why - but it absolutely has something to do with its simplicity, its depth, and its subtlety in handling big emotions. This was a quiet (except the mice, yikes) exploration of grief and of retreating and the backdrop of the religious community added to our character's exploration of purpose.

I found this book absolutely stunning, and can only offer a series of disconnected thoughts in response. A middle-aged woman joins an order of nuns in the Australian outback near the small town where she grew up, and there, starts to reflect back on her own life and the lives of others she once knew - especially her mother's. Three visitations frame this account: a plague of mice, an unburied body, and a classmate from her past. Stone Yard Devotional is about grief, it's about treading lightly in the world, it's about faith and destruction, it's about finding a life that will let you breathe, it's about the conditions under which we can offer and accept forgiveness. Wood's prose has such deep clarity, and I'm not surprised that this was chosen by the Booker judges who picked Orbital, as I was immediately reminded of Samantha Harvey's writing, especially in Dear Thief. But I think this is even better than Orbital: the single narrator gives us a deeper and more complex internal world than is possible with a larger cast. The atmosphere and setting also took me right back to the disturbing Australian children's books about exclusion and cruelty that made their way to Britain when I was a kid - Libby Gleeson's Eleanor, Elizabeth, Robin Klein's People Might Hear You and Hating Alison Ashley - and to Jane Campion's directorial debut, the 1986 Australian film Two Friends.There's something a little otherworldly about this novel, cleverly signalled by the way the number of mice that ravage the community swells to impossible proportions, and I just loved it. 4.5 stars.

5 stars for tackling an extremely hard subject, death, and incredible use of symbolism and metaphor. Review will be posted at thereadersroom.org and posted here after Booker season ends. From thereadersroom.org: Here’s the unusual case where our rating system isn’t quite working for me. I actually LOVED this book. So if total enjoyment was weighted more heavily, it would have scored better. We don’t really have a score for great use of symbolism and metaphor. Underneath the surface, this novel is a meditation on death and our fears and anxiety surrounding it. It’s a deep, meaningful read that’s also very accessible. Really hope this makes the shortlist. Writing quality: 5/5 Originality: 5/5 Character development: 2/4 Plot development: 2/4 Overall enjoyment: 2/2

The Weekend, Charlotte Wood's previous novel, captivated me by her attention to the spaces around the narrative, changing dynamics seen through the actions of the protagonists. I found this novel had almost grown from that and for me was more about the space, the unvoiced than the central storytelling. The plot is almost incidental. Unnamed narrator leaves her life to enter a community of nuns. It appears, to the reader, that this self-imposed exodus has nothing to do with religious beliefs, she is an atheist. It provides her with "a" place in which to have some use whilst trying to make sense of global, climate realities. It played with the "stranger comes to town" trope, repeating this motif and using each, very subtly, as a different catalyst. She is the first of the "stranger" episodes as she retreats, then comes a mouse plague closely followed by a "celebrity nun" who brings with her the fourth element, the recently discovered bones of a former nun of this community. These all have a COVID backdrop. I found this an extraordinary novel. Curious content propelling the story with the cleverly carved space around this for constant introspection and contemplation of a much bigger picture. The beautifully crafted work juggled restraint, foreboding and challenge.

Gorgeously quiet novel where the power of what is not said reverberates through the entire work.

I... I'm honestly not sure what just happened...

This one hits hard. Percival Everett is a master stylist, as always, and here he adopts the trappings of detective fiction, coupled with bitingly funny humor, to tell a story about lynching in the United States. Everett makes no bones about the reality of lynching, showing unambiguously that it is an ongoing genocide that didn't stop with the civil rights movement. I found the humorous tone - some of it dark humor; in other places slapstick - to be a stroke of brilliance: the story is told in such a readable way that when the reality of the genocide sets in, it hits hard. Everett has observed that "America has a great talent for hiding its own transgressions" - a comment that very much rings true for me. For many of us who grew up in the United States, lynching is outside the standard history curriculum even though it was - and is - a tool to enforce the racial order. The Trees connects the dots and shows the genocide for what it is. As a reader, this can be a heavy burden. What we do with this knowledge is up to each of us individually, but when the transgressions are no longer hidden, and our complicity in genocide laid bare, we cannot in good conscience do nothing to challenge the system that perpetuates it.

‘History is a motherfucker.’ ‘Our country's national crime is lynching,’ wrote abolitionist and journalist Ida B. Wells. These violent public executions, perpetrated by mobs of white people largely against Black and Asian people, have left a long stain of horror and destruction on the soul of the United States with the NAACP reporting 4,743 known cases from 1882 to 1968. Directly confronting the reader with this dark history that has lingered for generations is Percival Everett’s The Trees where the horrors of the past do not stay dead and dormant. Shortlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize, The Trees hits hard, blending a hardboiled police procedural mystery with dark humor, a bit of magic and bucket loads of bloody history as the mutilated corpses piling up in a depressed southern town spill over into nationwide violence. Is this just a string of murders or a national reckoning, with people beginning to ‘rise up’ like in the lyrics to Lyle Lovett’s cover of Ain’t No More Cane which Everett has said inspired the novel. Sharp, satirical and with well-crafted themes on a legacy of racial trauma and violence, The Trees is as powerful as it is an utterly riveting read. ‘The dead can't tell no time, can't read no calendars.’ This book takes you by the throat and does not let go, forcing you to reckon with the history that is confronting the present in the novel. I really enjoyed this one and I think I even preferred it to James, Everett’s more recent, National Book Award winning novel (which I also enjoyed). It is a dark novel, but the dialogue really cracks and there are some rather hilarious moments such as a gleefully insulting portrayal of a US President. It also makes for a great book club read as there is A LOT to discuss about this one. ‘They’re investigating a crime, a crime of history.’ Everett’s novel brings us to the quiet Southern town of Money, Mississippi which ‘looks exactly like it sounds.’ is suddenly home to a series of disturbing crime scenes when white folks start being found brutally murdered beside the body of a Black man who’s face is smashed beyond recognition. Yet when the bodies arrive at the morgue the Black body has vanished. Enter Jim and Ed, two Black men down from the “big city” to investigate. What starts as a police procedural bordering on horror story begins to spiral into something far greater. When the truck full of cadavers arrives I figured we’d start getting some clues but, suddenly, one must wonder, is there even a logical explanation? But, then again, was there ever any logic to lynching or is it the illogic of fear and hatred where ‘lynching…is also the metaphor of itself’ as Nobel winning author Toni Morrison once wrote. The novel will certainly give the reader a lot to ponder. ‘I very seldom say what any of my novels mean,’ Everett stated in an inteview with The Guardian but offers a big clue all the same: ‘One thing I think is true is that there’s a distinction to be made between morality and justice: justice might not always feel moral to us, and that’s a scary thought.’ What might justice look like in a country where ‘less than 1 percent of lynchers were ever convicted of a crime,’ as the character Mama Z says, ‘only a fraction of those ever served a sentence’ and—such as in the case of Emmett Till—the accusors would often later admit they lied. Thousands have died and everyone brushes it under the rug of history. ‘Everybody talks about genocides around the world, but when the killing is slow and spread over a hundred years, no one notices. Where there are no mass graves, no one notices. American outrage is always for show. It has a shelf life.’ And yet it isn’t even just a part of history and racial violence against Black people persists today. ‘You should know I consider police shootings to be lynchings,’ Mama Z says, citing the racial disparities in police violence in the US. Is the amalgamated guilt perhaps creating ‘mass hysteria’ in Money, as Jethro theorizes, because ‘we’re just so afraid of Black people in this county that we see them everywhere.’ When we learn that those being killed are descendents of the accusers of Emmett Till, Everett isn’t asking us to question if the act of violence is moral but, perhaps, is it justice? ‘Babies are smarter than us. It seems they’re always trying to kill themselves. That’s why we have to watch them every second, so they don’t swallow nickels or drink weed killer or eat Tylenol like candy. Then we get stupid and want to live.’ The setting of the novel also opens a lot of room to examine race, class, as well as gives Everett a lot of opportunity for satirical humor. Money, Mississippi is the sort of town where people say things like ‘I swear on the blonde head of the little baby Jesus,’ everyone speaks in rather comically offbeat grammar, and the names of companies and people are rather hilarious (‘no relation’ they often add). In an interview with NPR, Scott Simon points out the humor of how these characters are ‘not just bigots’ but so dirty and dumb he had to ask ‘are you stereotyping white Southerners?’ Everett responds ‘Welcome to club,’ nudging the long history of unflattering racial stereotypes of Black people through history. ‘I am, in fact. How does it feel? That's my question. Yes, I'm not fair in this novel. It's not a novel about fairness. In fact, after I wrote the first page, my admission to my wife was, well, I'm not being fair, and I'm not going to do anything about it.’ But beyond the intentionally insulting caricature are a lot of class-based social investigations well folded into the novel. We have Jim and Ed, the two Black men sent to investigate from the MBI—not the FBI—which they seem to admit with a sense of embarrassment that is rather comical because the locals all hate them for being “big city” elitists just as much as they are uncomfortable with a Black person in a position of authority. There is a large city vs rural divide in the novel with the citizens of Money feeling looked down up by cityfolk (one character says she only reads science magazines and never People magazine because she‘she hated them intellectual elites in People.’). There is a sense, too, that a society built to oppress Black people often harms the poor whites all the same, yet it is a society the poor whites will never overthrow because they at least feel themselves superior and not held down because of their race. But the town also has to confront their history with racism, with characters realizing they are living legacies of lynchings or might have parentage they were previously unaware of. ‘Lynching is an important aspect of racial history and racial inequality in America, because it was visible, it was so public, it was so dramatic, and it was so violent.’ —Bryan Stevenson, Just Mercy The chapters in The Trees are all quite short and staccato, which really helps the pace of this novel reach breakneck speed and allow the reader to feel the tension building to catastrophic levels. As the mystery unfolds, however, there are moments when Everett forces you to slow down and really let things sink in, such as the section of the names of those who had been lynched. The saddest names, we are told, are those such as ‘Unknown Male,’ which Mama Z says ‘in a way, it’s more of a name than any of the others. A little more than life was taken from them.’ Each life was cut off by someone who kept their life, was able to have descendants, and many are left without even a name. And so we have Damon writing them down with a pencil because ‘when I’m done, I’m going to erase every name, set them free.’ It is a rather powerful moment. ‘When I write the names they become real, not just statistics. When I write the names they become real again. It’s almost like they get a few more seconds here. Do you know what I mean? I would never be able to make up this many names. The names have to be real. They have to be real. Don’t they?’ In a discussion with the Booker Prize when The Trees made the longlist, he was asked ‘is the ghost of Emmett Till everywhere in recent American history?’ Certainly Emmett Till has remained a figure in literature, such as the incredible relatively recent poem from Eve L. Ewing titled I saw Emmett Till this week at the grocery store (you can read it HERE), however, Everett responds: ‘I don’t know what that means. If one wants to use Emmett Till as a symbol, then yes. I prefer to think of him as boy who never got to grow up. There are plenty of ghosts haunting American history.’ There are plenty of ghosts haunting American history indeed, and The Trees forces us all to confront them. Is it moral? Maybe not. But is it justice? That’s for you to decide, and to answer the question that hangs over the novel’s dramatic conclusion. The Trees is a stunning achievement of well-crafted language and plot that manages to take a pot-boiler of a police procedural novel and transform it into a painful gaze at the horrors of racial violence. It is a book that will likely haunt the reader for long to come. 4.5/5 ‘I'm gonna die now, for a while. But I'll be back. We'll all be back.’

Every year there are many books I spend the next year kicking myself for not having read. At the top of that list from 2021 is “The Trees,” by Percival Everett. Having passed over “The Trees” when it came out last September, I didn’t read it when it was longlisted for the PEN/Faulkner Award in February, or even when it won the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award in April. But Tuesday, when it was shortlisted for the Booker Prize, I finally wised up. Better late than never: “The Trees” is a novel that doesn’t seem possible. It’s a shocking and shockingly funny story about lynching in America. (Stay with me.) Presented as a contemporary crime story slathered with a thick gravy of absurdist comedy, “The Trees” follows the investigation into a series of baffling murders that start in Money, Miss. If you recognize that town as the place where 14-year-old Emmett Till was murdered back in 1955, you’re already onto Everett’s subversive theme. The novel opens with a gruesome scene: a White man named Junior Junior has been castrated and strangled with barbed wire; next to him is the battered body of a Black man who looks unnervingly like Emmett Till. Before long, that crime, with its peculiar details, is repeated. And then repeated again. Could these be revenge killings? Could the murderer be a ghost? The two Black investigators charged with solving these mysteries discover a town where rednecks talk – and act – like nothing has changed since Jim Crow. Mama Z, a local witch doctor, has been collecting records of lynchings since she was born 105 years ago: a vast library of atrocities ignored and victims forgotten. With its buffoonish antics, its gothic gore and especially its ferocious social insight, “The Trees” exists in a strange intersection of Mark Twain and Toni Morrison. I was reminded of “The Sellout,” Paul Beatty’s similarly unsettling “comedy” about slavery and segregation. And remember: In 2016, “The Sellout” became the first novel by an American ever to win the Booker Prize.

I'm a little speechless.

This novel is so pleasurable to read while also making a big impact! Percival Everett's “The Trees” has the structure of pulp crime fiction and a biting sense of humour that comes from sharply drawn characters. But it also seriously engages with the legacy of racially-driven lynching in American history and the persistence of racism in the country today. The authorities of Money, Mississippi are flummoxed when the bodies of a badly-beaten black man and a mutilated/castrated white man are discovered together. Shortly after another white man's body is found alongside the same corpse of the black man from the first murder scene. Special detectives Jim and Ed arrive to investigate though they are looked upon with suspicion as black men in an overtly racist community. What at first appears to be bizarre supernatural acts of revenge gradually shade into the surreal as the plot thickens and similarly violent crimes spring up around the country. The story is so well paced with short, punchy chapters and a vibrant cast that kept me enthralled until the ending. It also builds in meaning as a commentary on contemporary American life where “The image of the boy in his open casket awakened the nation to the horror of lynching. At least the White nation. The horror that was lynching was called life by Black America.” Many sections of the novel include a heavy amount of dialogue which vibrantly brings the characters to life and evokes a lot of humour. Read my full review of The Trees by Percival Everett at LonesomeReader

Now Shortlisted for the Dublin Literary Award 2023 Shortlisted for the Booker Prize 2022 German: Die Bäume This is amazing: Percival Everett writes a satiric revenge novel about lynching that ridicules the ugliness and stupidity of racists and the system they have built - yes, this is also a book about the fact that history is never over. The story starts with the murder of two white rednecks whose families were involved in the lynching of 14-year-old Emmett Till in 1955. At the crime scenes, the same Black body is found, a man holding the severed testicles of the deceased - and have I mentioned that the Black body resembles Emmett Till, and that the killings take place where Till was lynched, in Money, Mississippi? The white trash police force is no good, but professional help comes from two Black state detectives, both cool and sharp and right out of a Spike Lee movie, as well as a Black female FBI detective. Together, they try to solve the case while more and more white racists are murdered and, well, neutered, their balls held by Black corpses found at the respective crime scenes. Meanwhile, a mysterious old woman who has recorded all lynchings in the history of the US hires a writer to compile the stories of the victims she has archived... The writing here is just so spot on, the whole novel comes alive through the rage that fuels the wicked humor. There is a Blaxploitation element to it, a horror element (I want Jordan Peele to turn this text into a movie!!), and of course a comedy angle (the Klan members in "The Trees" are about as smart as those in "Django Unchained"). The intellectual contrast between the reigning white racists and the empathic, smart Black characters does both grant catharsis (yes, look at those despicable racist fucks!) and it infuriates, because as the novel progresses, the story becomes both more surreal AND more real: There is a televised speech given by a certain orange moron that used to govern the USA, and while he reacts to fictional events, I couldn't help but feel that this is exactly what he would have said - and the upset such scenes generate is the social criticism at the heart of the book. The book might be satire, but we know what Everett says here is true, and it makes. you. MAD. Some parts of the book are historically accurate, other aspects are altered to make a statement (just compare the historical roots of the term "lynching" with the explanation in the novel!), others again turn the text into a riotous allegory on racism in the United States. I was perpetually perplexed by the ideas and the stellar narration. This is another Booker entry that, just like Booth, can be read as a commentary on the Great American Novel, and I love it.

Shortlisted for the 2022 Booker Prize Winner of the 2022 Anisfield-Wolf Book Award Finalist for the 2022 PEN/Jean Stein Book Award Longlisted for the 2022 PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction My my my, I thought James McBride was the best author of dark social satire regarding our nation’s historical ugly racial injustices. Author Percival Everett used one of our country’s most famous and heinous lynching as a focal point to his new novel “The Trees”. In 1955 a teenaged black child was accused of flirting with a married white woman. Three days later, he was lynched and brutally beat. The woman recanted her claim 60 years later. This is the preamble of the story. What Everett highlights is our history of lynching. From the beginning of slavery, lynching was commonplace. In this novel, a woman has recorded all the lynchings of our country. This is impossible of course, merely fiction. But the idea gives the reader pause. We have Holocaust records detailing (thanks to the Nazi recordkeeping) the number and sometimes names of victims. As a country, we will never know and recognize all who were lynched. Given the uneasy topic, Everett went the way of McBride; he added dark humor and farcical situations to make his story readable. Two black detectives are sent to a remote area in Mississippi after white men are found brutally strangled with their testicles ripped from their bodies a held in the hands of a very dead black man. What drew the attention of the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation was that it happened again: more white men dead, testicles missing and in the hands of the same dead black man. Furthermore, the crime scenes mimicked the brutality of the 1955 death of the young boy. Somehow the rural police department lost the dead black man and he reappeared for a second time. Everett writes this with humor. The two detectives who reluctantly are forced into the back woods of Mississippi are clever. And Everett has fun making the white people, well, trashy. This can be off-putting, as the epithets are ugly racial slurs (ie use of the “n” word) but add authenticity to their red-necked behavior. In “The Trees”, the Black characters are the educated and clever ones. Perhaps Everett intended to reverse the stereotypical characterization. Yes, it’s over-the-top, but sometimes that is necessary to tell a meaningful story, Racism runs strong in our country. This is not a novel for racists. It’s a novel to wake up the non-racists, to recognize the horror that people of color endured, to recognize that there is quiet collusion in benefitting from the horrors of racism, even if one isn’t an active participant. Everette includes Chinese people in Wyoming who were mistreated during the railroad expansion. He wanted to capture all racism, not just from the Jim Crow South. Everette included the list of known lynchings in a powerful way, This is a revenge fantasy novel. It’s a gritty and at times gruesome read. It’s an entertaining read in that he is one clever author! He has great fun with names. I chuckled and gasped, in equal measure. I recommend it as an illuminating read. I’m ashamed to admit I had not heard of Emmett Till and his gruesome murder until reading this story. We must not forget from where we came so we don’t repeat the same mistakes.

This was INSANE!!! I really had no idea what to expect but this was rage inducing, depressing, violent+brutal, with a healthy dose of dark humor interspersed throughout. Also, I LOVED the short chapters. One of the best books I’ve read in a long time. Definitely going to check out more from this author!

Percival Everett writes books that absolutely need to be written, and although my introduction to him was his dramatic novel So Much Blue, I somehow intuited the inside zaniness married to a skydiver’s sense of adventure and a philosopher’s wisdom and fearless vision of truth because my head exploded on first contact: “This is it!” screamed my hair follicles. “This is who I’ve been looking for.” And I hadn’t even read I Am Not Sidney Poitier, Glyph, or the incredibly prescient God’s Country, all of which made me scream with laughter and almost roll off my couch in joy and agony. Reading The Trees after reading a lot of Everett’s 30+ books allows you to secretly smack your lips, knowing some of the precursors to this new one. Almost immediately I thought I knew what was coming because I’d read American Desert, and the ending to one of my favorite Everett books, the aforementioned God’s Country, has echoes of this new book and almost seems to demand that it happen eventually. And now it’s here. To compare Everett’s work to anybody else’s is pointless. So instead, here’s a scene that conveys what I love here and in his earlier funny novels (no setup necessary): The Doctor Reverend Cad Fondle was sitting in his living room with his wife, Fancel. Fancel was a big woman, big enough that she hardly ever moved from her corduroy recliner, which was stuck in recline. There was a half a meat lover’s pizza and two beers on the foldout tray between her recliner and her husband’s. They were watching television, switching back and forth between Fox News and professional wrestling. “They’s right,” Fancel said. “That Obamacare don’t work worth a hill of puppy shit. We done bought in, causin’ we had to, and I ain’t lost nary a pound.” Fondle took long pull on his beer. “Well, the country’s done with that experiment. Smart-ass uppity sumbitch. You know he thinks he’s better’n us.” “That Hannity is cute,” Fancel said. “If I could get my hand anywhere near my vajayjay, I’d rub me one out just watchin’ him.” “You can’t reach it, so shut up.” “How did the cross burning go the other night?” Fancel asked. “It’s called a lightin’, a cross lightin’. It ain’t right to burn a symbol of our Lawd Jesus H. Christ. I would think you knowed that by now.” Fancel sighed. “What’s the H for?” “What?” “The H in Jesus H. Christ, what’s it for?” She picked up some pepperoni from a crease in her house dress. Fondle paused to regard her with his head cocked. “Why, it stands for, um, heaven, that’s right.” “Jesus Heaven Christ? That don’t make good sense.” “What would make sense to you?” Fondle asked. “I don’t know,” she said. “Herschel, maybe.” “Why?” “It’s a nice name and it’s a name. Heaven ain’t no name.” “It’s the name of a place, so it’s a name. In fact, the place is named after our Lord,” Fondle said, his eyes narrowed. “Why ain’t the place just called Jesus or Jesusburg?” “Shut up and eat.” (126-127) This is a hilarious and devastating book that in some sense has been 400+ years in the making, and finally, finally it is here, courtesy of Mr. Everett. In The Trees Percival Everett chooses to rotate all his comedy and tragedy cylinders at the same time. And he’s so good, using all or part of what he’s got can be a choice. And in 2021, he has chosen to give us everything he’s got. The United States needs this book. The world needs this book. * * * What Percival Everett has written about, an inevitable rising up and destruction by those who have suffered without justice, is and has been in the air for years. And writers pick these things up. I’ve written an as-yet unpublished novel which is my take. And recently I’ve read others: The Mermaid of Black Conch by Monique Roffey, and nonfiction The Reckoning: Our Nation’s Trauma and Finding a Way to Heal by Mary Trump. And I’m sure there are many more books coming. The muses are screaming and the poets and writers are listening—following their “orders from headquarters” and sounding the alarm.

This was (surprisingly) hilarious… until it wasn’t. Only Percival Everett could’ve written this book. Bonkers, ruthless, necessary.

Booker Prize Shortlist 2022 and in my opinion a 'must read'. “Goddamnit, I hate murder more than just about anything,” said Sheriff Red Jetty. “It can just ruin a day.” "Oh Lordy, Lordy" that was a superbly written and darkly humorous novel. It is a satirical study of the drawn out genocide of people of colour in the US and uses the murder of Emmett Till as its anchor. This is the first novel in which I have been deeply disturbed one moment and laughing out loud the next. Make no mistake this is a hard hitting novel that looks at racial discrimination and violence towards people of colour. We get to know the small minded and backward thinking community of Money, Mississippi, as they grapple with the horrific murders of two of its white community members. The murder scenes are gruesome and spark fears of an upcoming race war. This is an absolutely brilliant, relevant and insightful novel and I thoroughly recommend the incredibly entertaining and well read audiobook.

Shortlisted for Booker Prize 2022 The Trees is an audacious piece of literature. I would not have imagined humor (albeit the dark variety) to be the chosen genre for a story about the history of lynching in America. But Everett has done just that, with a perfect amount of horror and detective mystery brewed into it. And what a marvelous job he has done! The Trees is primarily set in Money, Mississippi, the place where Emmett Till, a 14-year-old black boy, was brutally lynched after being accused of flirting with a white woman. Emmett Till became a face of the civil rights movement in the US, but his murderers were never convicted. The Trees is a revenge fantasy. The story starts with a brutal murder of a white man whose body is found beside another dead black person. It's followed by another murder of a white man, beside whom the body of the same black man is found. Thus starts the murder mystery which keeps getting complex as more similar murder scenes show up across the country. Three black detectives, from state police and the FBI, take charge of the case, much to the dismay of the white police of the town Money and the story follows their investigation. We see a 105 years old lady who kept a record of all 7006 lynchings that took place since her birth, we see the white folks of the town who are quite stereotypical and fodder for most of the humor (I believe as an antidote to all the stereotyping of black characters in literature), we also see white supremacist groups preparing for a race war. This book will make you laugh in one sentence and horrified in the next. Everett has dedicated one full chapter to just listing the names of all the victims of lynching, and it hits hard. This book takes control of the narrative on racial tension and injustice. It builds a conflict between what's moral and what's justice and the ending will leave you wondering what comes next in this world Everett created. For a book on such a difficult topic and with so much graphic violence, it is a surprisingly easy read. The chapters are short, the dialogues quick and entertaining and yet it's filled with haunting and heartbreaking moments. 4.5 stars. Highly recommended.

Rating: 6.77 stars "A Jack of All Genre, and Master of all..and then some" is about the ONLY way to describe Percival Everett This being the eighth book I feel I've earned the right to state he's incredible. Authors that engage readers using carefully thought out characters and plots that break genre takes skill. Add to that uncanny sense of pacing and humor, encyclopedic knowledge and ability to switch POV's in an instant, he truly stands alone. And being black, all his others used race lightly; but with "The Trees" he's gone full steam ahead (N-word included) We begin in Money, MS with a gory murder of a local white man along side a dead black man gripping what appears to be the victim's testicles. A redneck sheriff and his deputy are stumped; when word gets out a couple of black MBI agents arrive to investigate. Being the deep south, this becomes the first hypocrisy of many. It's important to understand that Professor Everett isn't a mystery author; in fact, he refuses to stick with any genre making him unique, to say the least. The ONLY common denominator are unique character names, insights, plots themes and engagement. And for that I'm deeply grateful. Written in third person POV, chapters are at most 5 pages, with the majority under 3 using concise, yet evocative language. This could be termed 'page turner' but using the term does the book injustice. Driven by a 'get even for ancient lynchings theme', he adds tongue in cheek humor and copy cat murders across the country that triggers interest from government law enforcement and the national press. As one would imagine the racial nature causes a MS Klan group to resurface who decide on a cross burning to no avail. Stranger still, the dead black man from the first murder disappears from the M.E. office and reappears at the scene of other murders. But Everett doesn't stop there..no, no, no. As momentum grows, he adds Asians to the mix which spurns interest from the White House. I'm not a fan of spoilers or going into detail about story since it ruins the experience for readers. What I will add is a surprise that comes toward the end during a session in the Oval office. Put simply this is an outstanding, well conceived, masterfully laid out story from one of the best 'under the radar' authors in publishing. For the countless number of mystery fans in my network, you've yet to read anything like this!

CRITIQUE: Southern Trees The titular trees of Percival Everett's novel refer to the "southern trees" that "bear a strange fruit" in the song "Strange Fruit" written by Abel Meeropol (1) and recorded by Billie Holiday in 1939. It's not clear whether the omission of the word "southern" from the title is supposed to suggest that the problems of racism, white supremacy and lynching are now common to the whole of the United States rather than confined to the southern states. Emmett Till "Truth, crush'd to earth, shall rise again." (Hymn by William Cullen Bryant quoted by Mamie Till-Mobley) "The Trees" is in many ways a tribute to Emmett Till and his mother, Mamie Till-Mobley. Emmett Till, a 14 year old boy, was murdered by white supremacists in 1955 in the town of Money, Mississippi. The culprits were acquitted by a local all-White jury, even though they later admitted to the murders in a magazine interview. Emmett Till and his mother, Mamie Till-Mobley (Source) Towards the end of Trump's presidency in the novel, a number of Whites from the families of Emmett's accuser (Granny Carolyn Bryant) and killers (Roy Bryant and J. W. Milam) are found killed, ostensibly by Blacks and Asians. It seems that they are belated revenge killings. The white supremacists inevitably go into overdrive, as if their ideological cause now had some new legitimacy: "I'm afraid what we're looking at is a real nigger uprising." Every Black person is called a "nigger", as if they're not quite human. However, to demean one Black is to demean all Blacks; and to demean all Blacks is to demean every single Black: "Every time anybody gets called a nigger, I get called a nigger." Pretty soon there are burning crosses and reprisals, not to mention copy cat crimes. One of the bureau agents says of Granny C: "What that woman did to that child might not be forgivable even by one of them Christians or their god." About two-thirds of the way through, I started to investigate the story of Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley. The images of Emmett's severely beaten face are confronting, but ample evidence that his faux-religious murderers have no right to claim that their acts were justified by law, etiquette, morality or religion. Instead, they prove that white supremacy is a false claim to virtuosity and status, as well as a false inference of inferiority. Hillbillies, Rednecks and Bumpkins Despite the brutality of Emmett's beating and murder, Everett weaves his fascinating plot with both sensitivity and humour. He assumes the risk of describing the white supremacists as what they are. Often the derogatory words come out of their own mouths: "There ain't no law enforcement, there's just rednecks like me paid by rednecks like you." "City cops coming up here to the sticks to help the hillbillies." "It appears the local yokels have lost a body." "I think we bumpkins can handle our situation." "Smart-asses. Think we're just rubes." "I gotta say these inbred redneck motherfuckers scare the hell out of me." "Ain't nobody gonna miss them racist motherfuckers." "State sent up a couple of real hotshot special detectives to help us bumpkins out." "I may be fat and White, but I ain't stupid." After attending a Trump rally, one of the supremacists concludes: "That was fun. You know the man is just like us. I mean he ain't got no more smarts than a porkypine, but he knows how to put them liberal e-lites in their place." The Public Lynching Written and first published in 2021, the novel relates to a time when Trump was still in the White House, complaining that "Good White Americans are being targeted for violence, killed like animals." [No mention of the violence and killing to which non-Whites are being (and have been) subjected.] Percival Everett parodies Trump with a word-perfect fictional Trump, who says: "I am calling on my base, fine, loyal people, they love me and I love them. I am calling on them [to] take up arms against this rabble... "[These] niggers have gone off the rails and off the reservation, and they have got to be stopped. I will do it for you, but I want your support." Needless to say, having been caught out in a live recording, Trump steadfastly denies that he used the "N" word. This lampooning of Trump recalls the treatment of Nixon in Robert Coover's "The Public Burning". Everett's novel is to the 2020's what "The Public Burning" was to the 1970's. FOOTNOTES: (1) Abel Meeropol and his wife Anne adopted the two sons of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, Michael and Robert, who were orphaned after their parents were convicted and executed for espionage. SOUNDTRACK: (view spoiler)

Big call, I thought this was brilliant. I’m struggling a bit to write a review that I think will do this book justice. In the meantime I’ll say that I think what Everett does here is both very clever, and very important. The Trees reads a bit like Attica Locke’s Bluebird, Bluebird had a baby with Paul Beatty’s The Sellout. It’s not quite satirical but VERY darkly comedic and at times this is uncomfortable in a way that I have no doubt Everett intends it to be. I think to say much about the plot is to ruin a reading experience for a potential reader, but this story is one which examines American history, and particularly Southern society past and present with a very critical, unflinching eye. I loved every moment of this reading experience and expect this is something I will reread soon. I’m off to read Everett’s extensive back catalogue now.

Wow that was a superb book. Started reading on last day of Madeira holiday - book#6. Imagine Mel Brooks ‘Blazing Saddles’ characters and humour. But throw on more levels of satire and perhaps some zombies. You feel a little off balance by laughing at what the hell is going on here. A series of murders take place in the rural town of Money, Mississippi. At each crime scene the second dead body resembles Emmett Till. A young black boy lynched in the same town 65 years earlier. The white men are murdered savagely and part of their anatomy is clutched in the black man’s hands. Oh and yes the black man disappears from the morgue only to turn up at the next crime scene. Two out of town detectives and a female FBI officer join forces to solve the crimes. Crimes which escalate alarmingly all over the country. Even taking place in the White House with Trump hiding under a table. How do you make this stuff up. Oh and a 105 year old woman collating data on every lynching that has taken place in the US. The writing is sublime. Some of the banter reminded me of Slow Horses. Some examples: ‘F***k,’ Ed said, ‘I never even heard of Money, Mississippi, until this morning. And lay off my damn car. It’s comfortable. I don’t care what you say. This motherf’s got three hundred thousand miles on it.’ ‘A thousand miles for every pound of your fat ass.’ ‘I think I will have to have the catfish,’ Ed said. ‘Tell me is it fried?’ ‘Fried? It comes with a side of angioplasty.’ The second man shook his head. ‘He must be dead. Is he dead?’ ‘On and off,’ Jim said ‘What’s that in his hands?’ the sheriff called to one of his men. ‘Sheriff, that would be testicles,’ the man said. ‘What?’ ‘Testicles. And I suspect that they belong to him.’ He pointed to the dead man in prison clothes. ‘I say that because that guy is missing his.’ ‘There might be some civil rights violations involved.’ Hind said. ‘Whose civil rights?’ ‘I don’t know yet.’ ‘I ask because you have to have civil rights in order for them to be violated.’ Two cop characters Ho and Chi exist only for: He parked the car in front of a tavern. Chi grabbed a fritter and Ho looked at him. A deputy sheriff said, ‘You the guys from Orange County?’ ‘Ho.’ ‘Chi.’ ‘Minh. Riverside Sheriffs Department.’ The pages of names of lynched people where no charges were ever brought is beyond sad. The author has managed to shine a spotlight on the past…and current times. I intend to dig out more of his works.

Brilliant satire... tragic and funny all at once.

Look at the names in the background of the cover—the vivid detail tells you a lot of what is inside the pages, too. Those are the names of lynched Black people since early in the 20th century. Everett imagines and executes a fictional payback that may not be easy to stomach for some readers. The plot is purposefully absurd and sardonic. The violence plays on and off camera, but it’s witty and laugh-out-loud funny! The pace is urgent and vigorous, and THE TREES keeps on giving more to ponder. A few scene- chewing chapters, too. Lots of white space on the page, short chapters, fast and suspenseful momentum. It’s definitely a thriller to mock the family jewels of white bigots, too! A satire about a serious breach of humanity.

The Trees is a curious yet powerful book, beguilingly straddling an amalgam of genres, including laugh-out-loud social satire, police procedural, historical re-interpretation, social horror and even a touch of the paranormal. The way Percival Everett cleverly inverts discriminatory (and deeply offensive) social norms and stereotypes, thereby emphasising the fragile basis of the original, brought to mind Naomi Alderman's similarly lauded 2016 release, The Power. The majority of the narrative is set in the struggling town of Money, Mississippi, which remains notorious as the setting of the real-life lynching of 14-year-old African American Emmett Till in August 1955, ostensibly because he committed the heinous offence of "cheeking" a white female grocery store proprietor (the exact details of what occurred remain in dispute). Till's horrific and undeserved death, combined with the fact that his admitted killers went unpunished, is credited as one of several pivotal events that spurred the rise of the US Civil Rights movement. The book opens by depicting an extended family, who may well be described as representative of "white trash", whose failings and attitudes are depicted with a wry humour. It transpires that these characters are the younger generation of the family associated with the killing of Emmett Till. One, referred to as Granny C, is actually Carolyn Bryant, the woman whose complaint about Till's behaviour towards her provoked the lynching (The real life Bryant-Donham, like Granny C in The Trees has since admitted that much of her version of events was fabricated). I found it interesting that Percival Everett chose to depict her as a partly fictionalised character, as the real Carolyn Bryant Donham is still alive, 88 years old and living in North Carolina. Although, to be honest, I believe her past actions justify everything that's thrown at her! Over the following few days, three deaths occur, with the suit-clad body of an unidentified black man found in the vicinity of each mutilated corpse. To add to the consternation of Sheriff Red Jetty and coroner "Doctor-Reverend" Cad Fondle (who's also the head honcho of the local KKK chapter), the black man's corpse repeatedly goes inexplicably missing from the morgue. Who or what is responsible for the killings, and who is the mysterious deceased man? Cue Ed Morgan and Jim Davis, two African American agents of the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation (MBI), who bring a much-needed dose of investigative intelligence and social insight to backward Money. At the Money "Dinah", they make the acquaintance of waitress Gertrude, who introduces them to her formidable 105-year-old great-grandmother, Mama Z., a woman who has amassed a personal archive documenting a century's worth of lynching in the USA. As more mutilated victims begin to stack up, in Money and around the country, Morgan and Davis are joined by Washington D.C.-based FBI Special Agent Herberta "Herbie" Hind and Hattiesburg medical examiner Helvetica Quip (aside from the two MBI detectives, the character names are hilarious!). While on one level, The Trees might be read as a farcical social satire, at its core is the very dark history around race relations in the USA, and the history of lynching in particular. At one point in the book, a list of names illustrates the horrendous scale of the violence, in respect of which the vast majority of perpetrators never met with any legal consequences. What was most unsettling was that they all read so much alike, not something that one wouldn't expect, but the reality of it was nonetheless stunning. They were like zebras, he thought - not one had stripes just like any other, but who could tell one zebra from another? He found it all depressing, not that lynching could be anything but. However, the crime, the practice, the religion of it, was becoming more pernicious as he realized that the similarity of their deaths had caused these men and women to be at once erased and coalesced like one piece, like one body. They were all number and no number at all, many and one, a symptom, a sign. (p.171) 'Everybody talks about genocides around the world, but when the killing is slow and spread over a hundred years, no one notices. Where there are no mass graves, no one notices. American outrage is always for show. It has a shelf life. If that Griffin book had been Lynched Like Me*, America might have looked up from dinner or baseball, or whatever they do now. Twitter?' (p.291) (*The reference is to Black Like Me (1961) by John Howard Griffin) The Trees is undeniably a disquieting read, occasionally making the reader question where the line between darker-than-dark humour and genuine social horror lies (I've concluded that's a subjective issue for each of us, based on personal experiences). Given the subject matter, it's a deceptively easy read, with short chapters and a grippingly fast-paced plot. On the whole, I found it a stimulating and entertaining read, one I'll probably return to for a second reading after a few months time to digest.

There are a lot of authors experimenting just now with ways to combine the real, and the fictional, and the historical, and the personal all together into a narrative. What I've vividly discovered for myself, now that I've read When We Cease to Understand the World, is how much I adore those authors who plumb the depths of history, and then weave a unique mythology of subjective meanings from the facts. Sebald, Labatut, Stepanova all do this. It's quite a different kind of thing from the kind of writing called "auto-fiction' just now, which dives deep into just one person's history, the author's personal narrative, and adds fictional or subjective elements to that very narrow personal experience. Unlike the auto-fictioners, who put themselves at the center of their stories, Labatut and his counterparts efface themselves almost entirely from their stories. They're interested in a bigger picture. Each detail they choose adds exquisitely to the whole and the result is a Bayeux Tapestry of a novel. I love this way of writing, this way of storytelling. It's a gift to read this book.

Shortlisted for the 2021 International Booker and National Book Awards for Translated Literature When We Cease to Understand the World has been translated by Adrian Nathan West from Benjamín Labatut's Un Verdor Terrible. The best overview of the book comes in the author's own words on his German publisher's website - https://www.suhrkamp.de/images/sonder... - and thanks to my friend Neil for introducing me both to the book and pointing me towards this overview of it. His review here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... This is a fascinating blend of essay and fiction - as the author says: "The book starts out with an essay which is 99% non-fiction, followed by two short stories and finally a novella. As the book progresses, the fictional content increases, but all the stories are based on hard facts." (apparently just one paragraph in the essay is fictional - I am intrigued which one) The essay Prussian Blue is based around hydrogen cyanide: "by following that tiny –yet utterly deadly– molecule I found a thread that wove together science, art and history, assassinations and suicides, and that lead me to some of the greatest chemical discoveries, war crimes and massacres of the 20th Century." This part of the novel felt very Sebaldian, and it was interesting to see his The Rings of Saturn listed in the references alongside more factual books. Labatut's manages to make the ideas flow seamlessly but with a wide range: "An ingredient in Dippel’s elixir would eventually produce the blue that shines not only in Van Gogh’s Starry Night and in the waters of Hokusai’s Great Wave, but also on the uniforms of the infantrymen of the Prussian army, as though something in the colour’s chemical structure invoked violence: a fault, a shadow, an existential stain passed down from those experiments in which the alchemist dismembered living animals to create it, assembling their broken bodies in dreadful chimeras he tried to reanimate with electrical charges, the very same monsters that inspired Mary Shelley to write her masterpiece, Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus, in whose pages she warned of the risk of the blind advancement of science, to her the most dangerous of all human arts." This sense of the danger of advanced science / mathematics, both to mankind, but to the mental state of those practising it, is a key theme. Schwarzschild's Singularity tells how "a German soldier on the Russian front of the First World War was the first person to solve Einstein’s equations of the theory of general relativity, which are astoundingly hard. He did so while suffering a blistering skin disease and died soon after sending his results to Einstein. The strangest thing of all is that in his calculations there appeared, for the first time, a monster that was not to be recognized till decades later: the black hole." Schwarzschild himself is quoted as saying: "Often I have been unfaithful to the heavens. My interest has never been limited to things situated in space, beyond the moon, but has rather followed those threads woven between them and the darkest zones of the human soul, as it is there that the new light of science must be shone." The next short story, The Heart of the Heart, focuses on pure mathematics and begins: "On the morning of August 31, 2012, the Japanese mathematician Shinichi Mochizuki published four articles on his blog. Those six hundred pages contained a proof of one of the most important conjectures in number theory, known as a + b = c." a 'proof' that still today bewilders the rest of the mathematical world. The story also tells of Alexander Grothendieck, a Fields medal winner and brilliant mathematician, who, in his later year, retreated into reclusion and mysticism. The final piece, the novella When We Cease to Understand the World (from which the English title of the whole book is taken), focuses on the rival discoveries in quantum mechanics of Erwin Schrödinger and Werner Heisenberg. Per Labutut "what really interested me was the conditions under which each one of them had their particular epiphany" and it is here the fiction really kicks in as he takes what is known ("for example, we know that Schrödinger spent a week in Arosa with a lover, but we do not know her name, her age, we really know absolutely nothing about her") and adds a detailed and imaginative fictional story around it. But this is also a story about how the advances of quantum theory made the world both more explainable, in a purely mathematical sense, but much less comprehensible. "Take quantum mechanics, the crown jewel of our species, the most accurate, far-ranging and beautiful of all our physical theories. It lies behind the supremacy of our smartphones, behind the Internet, behind the coming promise of godlike computing power. It has completely reshaped our world. We know how to use it, it works as if by some strange miracle, and yet there is not a human soul, alive or dead, who actually gets it. The mind cannot come to grips with its paradoxes and contradictions. It’s as if the theory had fallen to earth from another planet, and we simply scamper around it like apes, toying and playing with it, but with no true understanding." (from the 'secret gardener' in the final chapter) Although the focus is on the Schrödinger/Heisenberg rivalry, perhaps the most interesting contrast for me was with Einstein, who found Heisenberg's theories particularly confounding: "The father of relativity was a great master of visualization: all of his ideas about space and time had been born of his capacity to imagine himself in the most extreme physical circumstances. For this reason, he was unwilling to accept the restrictions demanded by Heisenberg, who seemed to have gouged out both his eyes in order to see further ... Einstein became the greatest enemy of quantum mechanics. ... “This theory reminds me a little of the system of delusions of an exceedingly intelligent paranoiac, concocted of incoherent elements of thoughts,” he wrote to one of his friends." This section also finishes, in a change of style, with a shorter, much more personal chapter, which stands in an intriguing relationship to the rest of the book. A wonderful book - a hybrid of accessible science and novelistic imagination, and highly thought provoking, one that leads the reader down many interesting areas of further reading. Thanks to the publisher via Netgalley for the ARC. 4.5 stars rounded to 5

When We Cease to Understand the World by Benjamin Labatut is a fascinating book about 20th Century Science and scientists. This brilliant book is remarkably like Richard Flanagan’s, Question 7, in my view. Both cover science, scientific advances and scientists, both used a considerable amount of fiction to fill on the holes regarding occurrences behind closed doors, and personal lives of these people. Also, both books posed questions which are unanswerable such as. “……the man who invented modern-day nitrogen fertilizers – German chemist called Fritz Haber – was also the man who created a weapon of mass destruction, chlorine gas, which was in WWI” So, was Fritz’s work for the good of humankind? The development of such fertilizers provided more food for the world, fed more people. The gas used in WWI – inflicted terrible deaths on thousands of soldiers (and other living things). What if Fritz had discovered neither? Would the world be a better place. We learn about the impact of science and mathematics on humanity and our understanding of the world and universe around us. I have always admired theoretical physicists, armed with a piece of chalk and a blackboard, to create mathematical formulae to explain the world. These people had/have brains the size of a planets, and an imagination to boot. I found the chapters on the evolution of quantum mechanics gripping. This stuff is exciting. Scientists such as Einstein, Bohr, Heisenberg, Schrodinger, devoted much of their time figuring out how subatomic particles, such as electrons, behave. The debates among these guys were fierce. Can you imagine the excitement of being part of that scientific community at a particular time? Wow!! Quantum mechanics defies logic, forget your intuition – for example, an electron can be a wave AND a particle. What? These guys used mathematics to make sense of such matters. How can one do that when one can’t see, or measure, or observe these particles? It’s ‘next level’ isn’t it? Brainiacs on steroids. Anyway, Labatut also writes absorbing fiction about the private lives and shenanigans of these guys. He does this, we are assured, whilst staying faithful to the scientific narrative. This is a difficult book to describe or review. Can I just say it’s bloody brilliant? It will make you think, think about what science and mathematics can achieve, for good or for bad. I certainly thought about this, and I am concerned about where this will all end. It must end in tears, right? The fear of AI (created by mathematics, at the end of the day), is widespread. Science is beneficial. It’s also dangerous. Oh, one other thing – these scientists are/were quite mad. Highly recommended – but I can’t really say why! 5 Glowing Pulsars

Obsessed with this story. Obsessed with this style. One of my favorite things I’ve ever read. Truly marvelous.

16th book of 2022. 4.5. A real masterful piece of work this is. Sublime, stunning, and so intelligent. It's a shame this is his only book translated into English, he's brilliant (and looks almost too cool to be a writer [1]). The book is comprised of five parts which in a way read like separate pieces. The first, "Prussian Blue" is the most interesting piece of writing I've read in a long time, all circling the creation and use of cyanide. The next three parts ("Schwarzschild's Singularity", "The Heart of the Heart" and the titular "When We Cease to Understand the World") are about numerous mathematicians and scientists from Einstein, Schrödinger, Schwarzschild, and others. The final part, "The Night Gardener", of the novel suddenly shifts, a very short auto-fiction chapter, of just 10 or so pages, about Labatut's hometown in Chile. This, as all other chapters do, links back into the narrative, about madness, cyanide, war and genius. This honestly is one of the most fascinating and impressive books I've read recently. "Prussian Blue" blew me away, in 24 pages. It opens with the medical examination of Hermann Göring on the eve of the Nuremburg Trials, describing his fingers and toes stained a 'furious red'. Labatut then describes the Pervitin that all of the Wehrmacht were borderline addicted to, receiving it in their rations, so that the troopers 'used to stay awake for weeks on end, fighting in a deranged state, alternating between manic furore and nightmarish stupor'. He then reports that in April 1945 alone 'three thousand eight hundred people killed themselves in Berlin', and talks of the suicides that rocked Germany rather than facing their defeat. We then read about Hitler's beloved German shepherd, Blondi, who was given cyanide first on Hitler's orders because he was 'so convinced that his dosage had been tampered with'. Next we hear about the Indian goldsmith, M.P. Prasad, who is the only person to write about cyanide's flavour, writing three lines before he died. The liquid form smells slightly of almonds, 'which not everyone can distinguish as doing so requires a gene absent in forty per cent of humanity', and Labatut comments, that a significant number of Jews murdered in the concentration camps would smell nothing at all as the cyanide filled the gas chambers, 'while others died smelling the same fragrance inhaled by the men who had organised their extermination as they bit down on their suicide capsules.' Then suddenly we zoom out, and Labatut explains that certain bricks in Auschwitz were stained a 'beautiful blue', this is because of 'cyanide's authentic origins as a by-product isolated in 1782 from the first modern synthetic pigment, Prussian Blue.' Thus begins the history of the colour and its creation, which later oscillates into describing silkworms (for those who have read Sebald, how Sebald [2]) and the Nazis planting millions of mulberry trees, into a short biography of Johann Conrad Dippel, who, without, Prussian Blue would never have existed, into, then, Carl Wilhelm Sheele, who first realised the danger when he 'stirred a pot of Prussian Blue with a spoon coated in traces of sulphuric acid and created the most potent poison of the modern era'. This moves into another colour, a green, which Napaloeon loved, so Labatut's narrative takes us there to the Emperor and his bedroom, and his final days where his skin took on a 'cadaverous grey tone', and then we follow the narrative onto Rasputin and the failure to kill him, then onto Alan Turing, and Labatut describes what he was like as a man, and how he died by cyanide, which then leads us to reading about the children during the war and their gas masks, then into Ypres, where the 'first gas attack in history overwhelmed the French troops', and Labatut quotes a first-hand account of the gas and its effects which killed everything, all men, horses, birds in the trees, insects, mice, everything came from their holes to die, which leads us to Fritz Haber, who first obtained nitrogen 'from the air', as before, Labatut tells us, Englishmen would 'despoil the tombs of the ancient pharaohs, in search not of gold, jewels or antiquities, but of the nitrogen contained in the bones of the thousands of slaves buried', and how they did the same, unearthing bodies from the battles of Austerlitz, Leipzig and Waterloo, which then gets us to Adi, or Adolf Hitler, with a two page biography on how we went from aspiring artist to hateful war survivor, and finally the chapter ends with Haber's death and the letter written to his wife. This is 24 pages, the first part of the novel. And though Labatut says in the Acknowledgements that the 'quantity of fiction grows throughout the book' because "Prussian Blue" contains 'only one fictional paragraph' (he doesn't say which), it's clear that the man knows his science and his scientists. I didn't understand much of the quantum mechanics and whatever else but what prevailed wasn't the science at all, it was the genius and the madness. All the scientists in this book go pretty much 'insane' at certain points in their life, with recurring near-starvation and sleep deprivation (mostly due to obsessiveness of work), self-exile, talking to themselves, not washing, shaving, the usual. They were tormented souls and Labatut gives us full portraits of all of their madness (and genius). Somehow they all link too, scientists appearing in one another's chapters, ideas strung together ('standing on the shoulders of giants' . . .), and themes recurring and recurring. Of course as well as the madness and the genius, Labatut shows us that above all, maths and science are the most dangerous things to humanity; and, did these great men foresee that their inventions and ideas would be used for mass destruction, genocide? So it's also a reflection on the cost of genius. How the novel is only 188 pages is utterly beyond me. I'll say again, masterful. _________________________________ [1] [2] The Rings of Saturn is placed comfortably within the acknowledgements.

More Sebald than Borges. I’m not sure the term Anthropocene is employed within but that is certainly a theme in this meditation on physics, chemistry and the limitations of human understanding. It felt like a calm, sane parallel of Nick Land’s mid-1990s projects. I bought this for my wife for Christmas and she read half of it on Boxing Day, then placed it aside, not to return to again—at least not yet. I read this today over a Protestant morning, one quiet and disciplined. My wife and discussed it just before the FA Cup. Haunted by memories of chemical weapons and spectrums of probabilities, who wouldn’t beckon for Grace or tribal interests? The spectre of technology flickers about, an applied demon in inverse relations to the demonic theoretical.

Whenever I like a book a lot, I find it rather easy to write a review. The words come out flowing and it’s simple to point out the things I liked. Thing is, now and then I come across a book which stuns me and due to it’s complexity, I find it difficult to write a review. Such is the case of When we Cease to Understand the World. At the moment I can gloss over it superficially: The book structured as three essays , one novella based on a true story with fictional elements and a concluding ‘story’ of sorts. In essence the whole book has a heavy Sebald element to it. By this I mean that Labatut starts off with a topic and then jumps to another one which has links to the previous topics and then jumps to another topic. Yet, despite all the diversions everything still makes sense. The first essay is about the development of the color Prussian Blue, first used as a pigment in painting but then developed into much more deadly things, more notably, through the scientist Fritz Haber, as a key element of the Zyklon B. The next two essays focus on the development of quantum physics. Thus there are small biographies on Alexander Grothendieck and Werner Heisenberg. Naturally another key player is Albert Einstein, however he serves as the person who receives these theories and gives his judgement on them. The titular novella is all about Erwin Schrödinger and his discovery of the ‘wave’ in which to prove his quantum theory. It is in this section where, I feel, the fictional element comes in as there is a stint in a sanatorium, where Schrödinger falls in love with the head doctor’s daughter Herwig. The book goes into detail about his passions and lusts. The last section is a conversation between a person known as the Night Gardener and the narrator of the book. One could say it’s a summary of all the themes discussed in the previous sections. So what is the book about? This is my stumbling point. I think it’s about how science has the aim to improve the world, for humankind and yet, as seen in these essays, has the ability to cause death and destruction instead. This is hammered in the last story. Nature also has a role. Prussian Blue is an element in fertilizer, Schrödinger was inspired to write his theories when he was exposed to fresh air. Heisenberg retreated to a rural area to be inspired, despite his allergies and Grothendieck rejected science in order to live a beyond frugal lifestyle. I guess that despite science trying to provide order, the natural world is the real contributor to that order or somewhere to go when we cease to understand the world. As I said earlier, I thought this was fantastic. In the past I have spoken against books in the Sebaldian tradition but I can definitely say that When we Cease to Understand the World has changed my attitude towards Sebald. I liked the way Labatut connected all the non fiction elements and then uses the fiction element in a clever way. This is a brainy and brilliant novel and will definitely stay with me for a long time.

FINAL REVIEW // My friend, Daniel @lusophilia said this to me in a half-joking way: “I don’t understand how you can appreciate a book so much if a lot of it went over your head. 😂” In all fairness, he makes a valid point. And I can see a lot of you taking Daniel’s side on this one. There’s so many reasons why this book shouldn’t have worked for me, yet I think it was downright perfect. How can that be? I got swept up into this world even if this atmosphere of science and theories are so far off from my interest level or capability of understanding. It’s like I wish I understood everything, and for some reason that lack of knowledge (an understatement) is what drew me in; the fact that I was at Labatut’s mercy. What I especially love is that he didn’t dumb down the subject matter of these “characters’” passion for science and their hunger for scientific discovery. And because this shone through in the text, I felt that passion and hunger on my end as well. At this point, it didn’t matter that I was an amateur on the subject. It also helps that the first couple of chapters are so compelling and much more accessible. It’s like he was “tricking” me into this false sense of security until he hit with the idiosyncratic stuff. It all just feels so authentic. This book also made me become a little obsessive with learning more about the scientists’ real lives. I was looking them up on Wikipedia a) out of sheer curiosity and b) to see if I could figure out what was true or a product of Labatut’s imagination. And I still couldn’t figure it all out. But that’s okay because it ties in perfectly with one of the themes of this book: the characters are also struggling with their own versions of fact + fiction. I’m one book away from completing the International Booker shortlist, but I have this as my personal winner. It’s on a whole other level. To take a subject that I know nothing about, toss me into the abyss without a life preserver, and have me come out on the other side utterly shook and mesmerized, takes some serious skill. I shouldn’t have cared about this, but I did. I was seduced. https://www.instagram.com/p/COvP4gdr7...

Excellent! Overcooked in parts, delightfully raw in others. How was it possible I did not know about Haber or Schwarzschild or Grothendieck? I knew too much about others and so the quantum story was the least touching of them all. One step is not taken by the author. It begs to be there in the book - the Great Filter. Or is this fact too dark to be a fiction?

Incredible. A book that confounded me, amazed me, impressed me, and challenged me. It ignited a semi-dormant desire to learn about subjects of which I am completely ignorant, which is a very refreshing feeling. I was unsure if I’d enjoy the blending of fact and fiction, but I think it was pulled off masterfully here. It’s a book that speaks on the limits of human understanding, despite the fervent quest to unearth all the mysteries of the universe. It’s a book on what it means to be a person: the complexities and contradictions, the good intentions turned evil in the hands of power, the sheer destruction that we have, can, and will cause. That’s not to say the book is all despair, it’s not. It also celebrates the human mind and will and the lengths we will go to understand what is around us, often at our own expense. This was one of my favorite reads of the year and will surely stay with me for a long time.

4,5 Bound to end up in my top books 2021!

Absolutely fascinating stuff on every page. I particularly love the story about Schwarzschild, who solved Einstein’s equations on General Relativity and first posited the existence of black holes in between gas attacks in the trenches of WW1. He then came to the conclusion “We have reached the highest point of civilization. All that is left for us is to decay and fall.” I mean, holy shit. At first I thought the argument of the book was straightforward, that the advances of scientific discovery were inevitably destructive in some capacity; we peered into the atom just to rip it apart and level two cities. The initial sections are largely about juxtaposing the horrors of contemporary warfare with the scientific boom of the early 20th century. We get the legacy of Fritz Haber for example, a man who’s work is simultaneously responsible for creating fertilizer critical to the modern agriculture which sustains human life and simultaneously for supplying the gas chambers of Auschwitz. But as the book goes on, the deeper argument becomes apparent. The longest story is really about the philosophical implications of quantum mechanics. The book becomes an an argument that the path of modern mathematics leads not just to equal parts good and evil, but to a destruction of our perception of reality entirely, to a blurring of fiction and truth, to a time when we will cease to understand the world - I’m not sure if it’s true, but it’s incredible to read.

This is perhaps the most thought-provoking read for me this year. A story involving our narrator, the youngest of a bunch of siblings. Siblings she has been trained to serve and satisfy their every whim. She moves to a ‘Northern Country’, to live with her eldest brother, recently separated. To a country she doesn't know the language. The home of her ancestors. We’re not told explicitly, but we’re lead to believe her ancestors were driven from this land. Hated. In fact , our narrator is frowned upon by the locals, ignored and ostracised too – as her ancestors may have been. She is isolated. This is bleak, dark, and a bit frightening. There’s also some bat shit crazy stuff here that is a bit unsettling, not only because it’s hard to find meaning in them, but because these occurrences border on farcical. Enter the three legged dog Bert the other dog with a phantom pregnancy and a weird owner (putting it mildly), the dead new born piglets with ‘oh so smooth’ skin, the little dolls made of sticks – and more. I’m not sure our narrator is unreliable as such. She’s unhappy, alone, deprived and self-loathing, and a bit mad, to be sure. But unreliable? I’m not sure (Note: I have since learned more about unreliable narrators - see thread below - comments with Lisa). There’s references to Jewish life in Hitler’s Germany, only one or two – but enough to perhaps draw the parallel of this woman’s experiences to those who were persecuted by the Nazis in Hitler’s Germany. Is this ‘Northern Country’ Germany? We never find out. Does it really matter? As the feelings here experienced by the narrator – could be experienced by anyone. Someone with a stutter, a disability, a black person, or a Muslim. Anyone who may be seen as different from the collective. This is a must re-read. This is a wonderful book. Many thanks to Canders and Pedro for this Buddy Read. 5 Stars

Winner of the Giller Prize Shortlisted for the Booker Prize Sarah Bernstein’s Study for Obedience comes with two epigraphs which serve as lodestones for an intriguing and impressive work. The first, which she has acknowledged as inspiring the novel, is from Paula Rego: I can turn the tables and do as I want. I can make women stronger. I can make them obedient and murderous at the same time. This is a much quoted line, whose earliest reference seems to be an article ‘St. Paula’ by Marianne MacDonald in 1998 which includes an previous line ‘I can make it so that women are stronger than men in the pictures’. Bernstein herself saw the quote at a retrospective of the artist’s work in Edinburgh entitled Obedience and Defiance. For me this quote is encapsulated in the work of Rego I know best, The Family (whose working title was The Raising of Lazarus): The narrator’s own self introduction in the novel’s opening pages strongly suggests obedience but as the novel progresses we see this can transmute into a form of control, particularly over her seemingly dominant brother: Where to begin. I can it is true shed light on my actions only, and even then it is a weak and intermittent one. I was the youngest child, the youngest of many — more than I care to remember — whom I tended from my earliest infancy, before, indeed, I had the power of speech myself and although my motor skills were by then scarcely developed, these, my many siblings, were put in my charge. I attended to their every desire, smoothed away the slightest discomfort with perfect obedience, with the highest degree of devotion, so that over time their desires became mine, so that I came to anticipate wants not yet articulated, perhaps not even yet imagined, providing my siblings with the greatest possible succour, filling them up only so they could demand more, always more, demands to which I acceded with alacrity and discreet haste ministering the complex creative draughts prescribed to them by various doctors, serving their meals and snacks, their cigarettes and aperitifs, their nightcaps and bedside glasses of milk. Of our parents I will say nothing, not yet, no. I continued to spend the long years since childhood cultivating solitude, pursuing silence to its ever-receding horizon, a pursuit that demanded a particular quality of attention, a self-forgetfulness on my part that would enable me to bring to bear the most painstaking, the most careful consideration to the other, to treat the other as the worthiest object of contemplation. In this process, I would become reduced, diminished, ultimately I would become clarified, even cease to exist. I would be good. I would be all that had ever been asked of me. The second quote is from Philip Boehm’s translation of Ingeborg Bachmann’s novel Malina, a novel I often describe as pre-Bernhardian (my review) as she was a key influence on Thomas Bernhard. [I will tell you a terrible secret:] language is punishment. Language must encompass all things and in it all things must again transpire according to guilt and the degree of guilt. And it was interesting to see the Booker judges also make the link to Bernhard when explaining their choice of the novel: "The humour here is dry as a bone, very Bernhard-esque; it is obliquely and surprisingly funny." Malina is one of a number of literary works that are indirectly referenced in the novel itself, including Simone Weil’s Gravity and Grace (tr. Emma Crawford and Mario von der Ruhr) and two novels by Marie Ndiaye (tr. Jordan Stump). What holds these works together with this is well explained by Daisy Lafarge in this essay about the inspiration for her own novel Paul, and which refers to Bernstein’s previous novel The Coming Bad Days and which links them using a term coined by Elena Ferrante: Meeting sufferers of frantumaglia in fiction doesn’t guarantee pleasurable reading. A warm, palpable sense of self does not waft off the page to greet you, like a friend or familiar scent. These characters might seem underdeveloped, cold, aloof, not fully fleshed-out, unable to offer the reader a straightforward account of themselves. They might be described as unreliable, complex, neurotic, frustrating, unlikeable. They are often—but not exclusively—poor, neurodivergent, queer, women, people of color. They have often—but not necessarily—experienced trauma. Some might try to dissociate out of their own plotlines. Their incoherence is not the result of being poorly written, but because they exist in a troubled relation to what it means to feel real. The narrator here refers to the same issue with respect to others reaction to her own personality: I had learned over the course of my life that there was something unpleasant about this opaque kind of inwardness: at any rate, the people, among whom I was weird, demanded, legibility – if there was one thing they could not stand, it was the obscure, they were not a people, much interested in the pursuit of meaning. They liked constancy. There is so much more that could be said on this novel. I loved the way the apparently timeless setting with relatively archaic practices jarring with the brother’s narrator conducting his work on Teams meetings, and indeterminate setting. And the links to the past of the narrator’s own people and the collective guilt/hostility of the locals for the holocaust wrought on her ancestors - a particularly devastating line is when she recognised that, despite this history, the people of the area are represent he closest thing to an inheritance I could be said to have). This isn’t an easy read but that’s what makes it a great novel - indeed the author’s current research topic is on literary difficulty and the common good. A great selection by the Booker panel and one I would love to see win. Review postscript I immediately reread the novel on finishing. On a second reading I could focus on the minor themes and the sentences which are exquisite. A small example of the former - the list of pastoral tasks for which the narrator could volunteer which begins “milking, feeding, walking, shearing, grading….” and ends jarringly and symbolically “mucking out and transporting to slaughter”. And the prose - this perhaps the pivotal paragraph when the narrator moves beyond mere obedience to agency: Here, I thought, as I made my slow way home, my fingers stained by the new, fresh berries, here was what came to the surface after so many throes and convulsions. Soon we would no longer need to withdraw to the desert for a space of contemplation and self-abnegation, Soon, personal ascesis would arrive in the form of one more letter, one more mass mortality event, one more migration stopped by total annihilation. Nature and well-being, the Home Office, any number of crooks and lowlifes. I wanted to be good in the terrible world. I thought of the birds. I accumulated fidelities in this space of diminishing returns. On the one hand, I felt that my obedience had been rewarded at last. On the other, in this cold and beautiful countryside, I feared I was living a life which I had done nothing to earn and I felt sure of some swift and terrible retribution. As I bit into the last strawberry, I began to weep because language, I felt, was no longer at our disposal, because there was nothing in the word that we could use. Nothing settled in place.

“I try always to be good.” A Study for Obedience is the second novel from Sarah Bernstein and longlisted for the Man Booker Prize of 2023. It’s my second Booker 2023 read of the year, though I also read the already awarded International Booker Prize of 2023, Time Shelter by Georgi Gospodinov. Obedience is a strange, eerie book, featuring a young woman who has traveled to a country to care for her elder brother, who has lost his wife and children. The woman’s ancestors are from this country, but she can’t speak the language, she just can’t master it, in spite of the fact that she knows many languages. The youngest in her family, she was raised to dutifully serve her elder siblings, and this mode becomes the central force guidingher life. She has worked in a law office (there’s an echo of Bartleby here, but more pointed perhaps as she is woman serving men). Her brother is a very orderly, disciplined, rational male, unemotional, requiring order of his sister (servant). She tries hard to be like him, to honor him, but: “I had never been able to live in my life.” When the unnamed) woman arrives in town, things seem to happen that she gets blamed for: A pregnant ewe, caught in the fence; dead piglets; a potato blight; a pregnant dog--an immaculate/demonic origin, as her own dog is neutered?-- and mad cows that need to be slaughtered. The implication is that she is perceived by the town as a witch. And she sees it herself, would willingly confess it could she speak to them, she's so consistently apologetic. “. . . it seemed that my obedience had taken on a kind of mysterious power.” And she is strange; she watches the grass grow, she says. She is referred to as a “spectral presence.” She leaves totems/talismans made of grasses at the doorsteps of townspeople (intended as a gift, a token of friendship?). She says she wants to be like ice. She wonders about the lives of cabbages. She takes a pinch of salt and tosses it over her shoulder, to the horror of others. And why can’t she learn the language? Is she a madwoman? Autistic? (I wonder about all the undiagnosed neurodiverse people throughout history who might have been seen as mad, possessed, and so on, bullied and tormented for their differences). She’s an outsider, an “incomer” that will never be accepted, so there’s the allusion to refugee stories, too. There’s an interesting addendum to this book--references to related books, not actual quotations, most of them feminist, from Virginia Woolf, Penelope Fitzgerald, Susan Sontag, Simone Weil, Lucille Clifton. In a way, these voices populate the story, bolster it, frame it. So it can be viewed as a feminist allegory. She’s passive, obedient, docile, quiet, never evolving out of the servant role her family gave her. She’s alienated, silenced, self-blaming at every turn. Language gets turned on her. She is “a perfect specimen of bare life.” I was reminded of the tone of the Vesaas story of two intensely quiet girls, The Ice Palace (where a girl lies face down looking through the ice on a lake, at the trapped nearly frozen life underneath, which this woman also does), The Birds, The Yellow Wallpaper, Handmaid’s Tale. Maybe her epigraph is a key to it all, from Paula Rego on her own work – “I can turn the tables and do as I want. I can make women stronger, I can make them obedient and murderous at the same time.” I need to read this a second time to unearth more of what is going on here, but it is for me a five star book, one of the best of the year, a book many will dislike for its weird detachment and maybe even for its feminist allegorical approach (as in, is the brother ultimately more than The Male?). Yeah, not many Goodreads readers seem to like this book, but like the woman herself, it holds a strange, eerie power. Muted, subtle, uncanny, allegorical, language rich, a means for us to reflect on language, silence, men/women. I recommend it, for sure!

Wow. Here is proof that when a writer follows a voice, and trusts that voice, and allows that voice to tell its story, something uniquely beautiful (and incomprehensibly true) can happen. How does this novel work? I don't care. It does.

I wanted to be good in the terrible world. I thought of the birds. I accumulated fidelities in this space of diminishing returns. On the one hand, I felt that my obedience had been rewarded at last. On the other, in this cold and beautiful countryside, I feared I was living a life which I had done nothing to earn and I felt sure of some swift and terrible retribution. As I bit into the last strawberry, I began to weep because language, I felt, was no longer at our disposal, because there was nothing in the word that we could use. Nothing settled in place. The title of Study for Obedience hearkens to the world of painting, and as it has been widely noted that author Sarah Bernstein had been inspired by a retrospective of feminist painter Paula Rego’s work (even using Rego’s words as an epigraph: I can turn the tables and do as I want. I can make women stronger. I can make them obedient and murderous at the same time.), it should come as no surprise that Bernstein’s novel comes across as painterly. Impressionistic and pointillist, showcasing tone and technique over overt subject matter, Bernstein nonetheless masterfully explores notions of guilt and innocence, language and belonging, history and destiny, and the complicity of those who claim to have been simply following orders. A Gothic rural horror that reads like a mashup of Max Porter and Shirley Jackson, I experienced this viscerally — not really knowing if Bernstein was giving us a modern fairytale until late references to reality recall horror beyond anything the Brothers Grimm imagined. I loved every bit of this experience — even if, perhaps especially if, I had to work to make meaning — and I will absolutely read the author again. (And speaking of paintings: Why does this cover look like someone killed Donna Tartt’s Goldfinch?) Slightly spoilery from here (I knew nothing going in and would recommend the same to other readers). The novel opens: It was the year the sow eradicated her piglets. It was a swift and menacing time. One of the local dogs was having a phantom pregnancy. Things were leaving one place and showing up in another. It was springtime when I arrived in the country, an east wind blowing, an uncanny wind as it turned out. Certain things began to arise. The pigs came later though not much, and even if I had only recently arrived, had no livestock-caretaking responsibilities, had only been in to look, safely on one side of the electric fence, I knew they were right to hold me responsible. But all that as I said came later. An unnamed woman relocates to an unnamed “northern country” — the place from whence her ancestors hailed — in order to act as housekeeper for her eldest brother: a very wealthy businessman, recently divorced, who has bought and renovated an impressive manor house on the edge of a small village. The entire novel is an interior monologue from this woman’s POV, and while it might not be quite correct to call her an unreliable narrator, it’s clear that we are getting only her version of events. She tells us early that she is the youngest child in her family, that she has more siblings than she would care to count, and while they had all trained her in servitude and obedience, this eldest brother, in particular, has made it his mission throughout her life to stamp out the woman’s personal thoughts and desires. As she cheerfully does chores for her brother — chopping wood (for ambience in the centrally-heated home), the daily shopping, the cooking and cleaning — she realises that she’s being shunned by the locals (whose language, not incidentally, she’s unable to pick up): as she walks through town, parents shield their children; diners at the local cafe hook their fingers in the sign of the cross at the sight of her; and when she volunteers at the local farm, she is sent a message to muck out the stalls and avoid all contact with people and animals. Strange events begin to occur — and the woman finds herself under suspicion — and it’s hard to tell if they distrust her because she’s woman, or if they suspect that she’s a witch, or if there is some other, more insidious, prejudice at play (it doesn’t help things that the woman likes to twist reeds into human shapes and leave them on folks’ doorsteps in the middle of the night). This is a short book with long paragraphs (running into pages), and while I savoured the language, it’s hard to excerpt passages that give the full flavour. I was often amused, as when we learn the the woman bathes and dresses her brother in the course of her duties — soaping his back and “executing Indian head massages” — and when he becomes listless, and after watching a documentary on horses, the woman decides to purchase some appropriate curry combs in order to restore her brother: I walked around the shop perusing the impressively thorough selection of brushes on offer, ranging in size from the infinitesimal — designed, I reasoned, to brush the teeth of a cat — this perhaps to smooth the skating rink erected on the town's lake each winter. Somewhere in the middle of these two (for the tools were arranged by size) I found three brushes roughly adequate to the dimensions of my brother, that could provide coverage and relief to his longest flank as well to his littlest fingers. (I hope that comes across as absurdly funny as I found it to be.) This next point is the slight spoiler of which I warned: There is also a real sense of dread and horror in the storyline. I would not have been surprised if it turned out that the woman was a ghost or a vampire (because of the way the townsfolk reacted and because she mentions that she’s always been repulsed by the idea of entering a church), but through hints and feints, we eventually learn that she is Jewish and that her family had escaped the area in the last century. Which, to the townspeople, makes her a kind of zombie: They thought she and her people were dead and gone, and here she is, risen from the ashes of history to confront them with their past: He could easily understand the people of the town, he told me one golden summer evening, as we sat looking out on to the garden, their attitudes then, their attitudes now, how they felt they had got a raw deal, had been cut off from fortune by some accident of fate, merely because what at a certain point they and their forebears had called efficiency the rest of the world had, in stages, and one by one, rather like dominoes falling against one another in a tidy sequence until they found themselves all together in a heap, until everything came to an end, determined to be acts of barbarism. And how many of those claiming to be upright had agreed that none was too many? And how many of them in truth, in their heart of hearts, could say they were not guilty? What after all was the difference between thought and deed? Was it a question of scale, or systemisation? What about the pit parties? What about the dogs? So, back to the title: There’s the idea of obedient soldiers simply “following orders” as they committed atrocities, but there’s also the idea of women like our main character subdued into obedience, made monstrous in response. What was the purpose of the reed figures that scared everyone so? Why did the brother’s health start to decline under her care? The unnamed country could easily have contained a dense forest with a witch living in a candy house at its heart, and who could blame folks for shunning her? This was unsettling, and this was art; just to my tastes.

WTF WTF. I’m reeling. This is the reason why I love book prizes.

It’s going to take a minute for me to be able to articulate why I love this so much.

I feel like I could read this book five more times

This is a small novel that packs a hefty punch. The unnamed narrator is telling her story to an undefined “you.” She has left everything behind and travelled abroad to a country the language of which she doesn’t speak to keep house for her rich and controlling brother who has settled there. Their ancestors are originally from that country, many of them buried in the pit on the other side of the forest, a place that is now only whispered about. There are two strands to this novel that are brilliantly entwined: that of the individual narrator, a troubled and probably neuro-divergent individual, an outcast; and that of her “congenital inheritance” as she refers to it, a link in the chain of a centuries old persecuted and outcast people. The narrator is very much aware of her non-conformity, describing herself as having an inborn quality that gives her an impenetrability with which she moves through life never fitting in, ostracized and often victimized. Unable to live within her life she has chosen to withdraw into herself and live according to the narratives made available to her by others. Upon her arrival strange things begin to happen in the village and the narrator is voicelessly blamed for these occurrences. As the occurrences escalate so the villagers’ fear and hate escalate and the atmosphere grows more ominous from day to day. To a great extent through the fear and aversion of the villagers, the narrator senses for the first time in her life that she has gained context. She had always felt estranged from the settings in which she found herself never belonging to any structure, not her family, her work places or the social milieu she should have been a part of. In this village, in this forest covering the pit in which her ancestors are buried, she is for the first time able to contemplate herself as part of a centuries old structure to which she belongs. She will leverage this connection in order to access her own individual self, flawed as it may be, and begin to create her own narrative. With the sense of belonging that she finds in this village comes the tipping point of the novel. She dips into the deep well of her people and sublimates its energy to empower her own individual agency. She is at one with her deepest self in all its layered complexity and she claims the right to refuse to withdraw as she always has done. Going forward she will live her life within the narrative she creates, not that created for her by others. Sarah Bernstein’s prose is subtle and understated, and she creates an atmosphere of mounting suspense from the outset and until the very end. It’s notable that the term Jew is not once mentioned in the novel yet it hovers over it throughout. Nonetheless the novel’s themes are deliberately universal, both as regards the individual and as regards the theme of belonging. This is what makes it so impactful.

Very interesting. Looking forward to unpacking this in my August reading wrap up. Concept 3/3 Writing 3/3 Enjoyment 3/3 Feeling/Moved 0/1 = 9/10 (=4.5/5*)

Devoured in an evening: would need to reread in depth to fully understand it. Haunting, elusive, trapped me in an unsettling, claustrophobic and sad world view. I love books with no plot that make no sense, with narrators so unreliable that you have no clue where you stand. Heavy atmosphere of shame and a very complex take on the theme of innocence & silence in the face of morality/ethics. If it wasn’t a library book I would have highlighted the whole damn thing !!

It took me a long time to finish due to getting covid a few days in and not having enough brain to concentrate on the dense prose. But finally reached the end, and it’s very worth it. The first of the longlist (that I’ve read) that feels like more than just a story. My pick for the winner.

Shortlisted for Booker 2024 If I don’t make this brief, I’ll go on till next week. When a book leaves me breathless and smashed, shattered and hopeful, enters my dreams, epic it seems, I just can’t stop praising and raising it up for all eyes, to see, to touch, to hear, to succumb to its delicate beauty, woven with universal themes, of what it means, to be human, in life or demise. What you believe, it’s here in these pages, it took me ages to turn its leaves, I read every passage and then read it again. And again. However much agony, you survive, you die, but “We know life is finite. Why should we believe death lasts forever?” And that’s just the start. Even the white spaces damaged me, in all the best ways. It’s a lot. Like all Anne Michaels, you are changed by her story. I think I’ll go back, and begin the book again.

I am probably very unworthy to read a book like this because I struggle with poetry and this book has very poetic prose. It is beautiful and lyrical and you feel there should be soft music playing as you read - Gorecki comes to mind. The chapters are all part of love stories as generations of a family fall in love and struggle through the adversities of whichever decade they are in. As I said, the prose at times is so beautiful that I found it hard to move on. There is care given to each sentence. I am not a lover of poetry in general but I would definitely read the other books written by Anne Michaels. They are the sort of gifts I would like to give to the closest of friends. Thankyou to Netgalley for the ARC.

Ignore the Goodreads summary that mentions John twice. Yes, this exquisite book begins with John and his great love Helena, but it is not the story of generations of their family, although all those we encounter in the book are loosely related, it is not really a story at all. It is a meditation. In moving vignettes that flow through time and place, some surreal or dreamlike, we meet a number of people who are experiencing loss or fear of loss under different circumstances-war, post war trauma, oppression, illness, or distance. Michaels shares their private thoughts, fears, and dreams and we witness their intimate moments with family, friends, and lovers. Through each of the connected stories Michaels explores the ways that art, science, memory, even the supernatural can keep our loved ones present to us, even after their death. It is apparent here, as it was in Fugitive Pieces, that Anne Michaels is a poet, she uses language to elicit feelings and emotions within the reader that feel like memories, and to pose questions that we begin to feel we too have wondered about all along. This is not for readers looking for a plot driven narrative. It is an intelligent, sensitive reflection on our shared desire to remain close to loved one who have died. Highly recommended

What a stunner. Gorgeous language. And the most quotable book of all the Bookers this year. And dare I say it is romantic through and through; really diving into desire in all of its forms. The desire for the perfect partner, for sex, for life, for faith, for self, for meaning, for a higher power, for closure, for peace, for solitude, for release. I was blown away. I liked her previous work FUGITIVE PIECES, but I devoured HELD. Breathtaking (and sad and haunting and sublime) beyond belief. “He would understand, later, that there is a moment when your life must become your own; you must claim it from all the other stories you've been given, that have been handed down or thrust upon you, or that you've been left holding while someone else claimed theirs. He already knew that the life unchosen, left behind because of cowardice or shame, does not wither. But instead, without exception, grows rampant, choking the path ahead.”

Booker Book 6 of 13: 9/10. A beautiful difficult book that bears reading and re-reading. Michaels makes you do the work to connect the fragmentary chapters which trace related - by blood or by friendship- people through the 20th century and beyond. The book touches on many big thenes: the border between life and death/love and memory, scientific discovery and the traumas of war, and how all these themes inform each other. I know I missed much of it - there are many historical breadcrumbs (Marie Curie makes an appearance but others are more subtle) to be followed- and I look forward to reading again and savoring all this. Michaels’ prose is gorgeous, spare and epigrammatic but piercing and evocative. I could give this book the Booker.

Stunningly poetic. So much so that although I listened to the audible version beautifully read by the author, I am going to read the print version for passages I may have missed. (later) After last night's book club meeting discussion, I definately will read the print version since I missed much of the loaded nuance in the writing.

"We know life is finite. Why should we believe death lasts forever?" These words begin Anne Michaels's third novel, Held, a century-spanning meditation on grief, love and human connection. The novel opens in 1917 on the battlefield off the shores of River Escaut in Cambria, France—British soldier John has been wounded in a blast and lies dying. John's inner monologue, a series of observations about his surroundings, gives way to tender memories of his lover, Helena, as he begins to lose consciousness. Love, war and the tension between the two quickly emerge as prominent themes. You can read my full review HERE on BookBrowse and a piece I wrote about Hertha Ayrton HERE.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⚡️ 4.5/5. Long listed for the Booker Prize! In this pretty, contemplative novel, we follow multiple characters (who are mostly connected through marriage or blood) over vastly different times and places throughout 1900s and early 2000s Europe. Michaels explores intimacy in times of violent crisis, asking us to ponder if the soul can outlive physical death through human connection. Many of the locales are cold and unforgiving, with the characters finding warmth only in each other. This is a romantic, poetic book that may turn off some readers with its “deep questions” that perhaps do not go deep enough. But personally, I thought it was beautiful, and I found it to be a quick read. And I would actually encourage the potential reader to try to read it quickly because little things didn’t “click” until pages later, and it was often subtle. I find that I love poetic writers and yet I really dislike poetry! 🤷‍♀️ The first half is stronger than the second half, which kept this from being 5 stars for me. But I enjoyed my time with it!

Holy shit THIS was ART. I can’t even describe what beauty Michaels captured. It was grief and love, and the belief that the soul exists in the gaps of things, gaps beyond things. It is the space between the flame and its fuel, just past the periphery of our vision, and yet still while in a space beyond us and these things we perceive it. Know it. As Michaels says it is only having a limit that lets us know and understand there is a presence beyond it. Not an end. And THAT is what it means to be held beyond death in love. I only wish I could write like that and convey the depth of things as Michaels has.

Now Nominated for the Booker Prize 2024 Orange's sophomore novel is both a sequel and a prequel to his debut: We re-encounter Orvil, the teenager who was trying to find his cultural identity and got shot at the powwow at the end of There There, as well as his family members. Not only do we learn what happened after the shooting incident, no, Orange traces Orvil's lineage back to the 1864 Sand Creek massacre, thus turning this into a story about how inter-generational trauma manifests. Per usual, Orange's characters are so captivating and deep that he manages to convey what mere history books cannot depict: How history feels, how it unfolds inside a person's consciousness and how it works on the subconsciousness. "Wandering Stars" is a book about survival and its cost, and the repeated attempts of individuals to both connect to their heritage and flee a circle of (attempted) destruction as well as self-destruction. Orvil's ancestor Bird survives the massacre against the Cheyenne and Arapaho (Orange is also a member of this tribe) only to be imprisoned in Florida where he shall be "re-educated" (so stripped of his culture), a destiny his son Charles relives a generation later in the infamous Carlisle Indian Industrial School. Other ancestors lose their parents and are raised by white people, addiction to drugs and alcohol are recurring themes, as well as discrimination and exploitation, but also various forms of resistance, most notably the occupation of Alcatraz. Back in the present, Orvil develops an opioid addiction after his hospital stay and befriends another struggling teenager with indigenous roots, while his beloved great-aunt Opal falls severely ill. Not only does Orange write some of the best, most honest passages on why people abuse drugs that I've ever read, he also illuminates how the resistance lives on in the young characters, often without them even realizing it: Orvil, his friend Sean, and his brother Lony all ponder how to find ways to live their cultural identity, they want to know what it means to be Native, despite the fact that much of their culture was not passed down by their elders, despite settler society wanting them to shed their heritage, despite the suffering the familial trauma has caused them. They are convinced that there is beauty and community to be found in who they are, and the generations are connected by their love for music and dancing and the will to uphold and create rituals. The title of the novel refers to a song by Portishead, which alludes to the Bible verse Jude 1:13 about false prophets (Bird takes the name Jude Star and studies the Bible in his Florida prison cell). And there is also another connection the text makes: That to Le Clézio's novel Étoile errante which tells the story of Jewish and Palestinian refugees in and after WW II. And now I want this year's prize judges to give Orange some love. In fact, lots of it. Here's my radio report on the book, feat. German translator Hannes Meyer: https://www.sr.de/sr/mediathek/audio/... And here's our podcast discussion, also feat. Hannes Meyer: https://papierstaupodcast.de/podcast/...

Booker Longlist 2024 “The spiders weave a web to keep the stars in place, as guiding light in our darknesses. The stars are our ancestors, but the spiders are too. They are the weaving and the light.” Tommy Orange gets to the soul of Indian/Native spirituality, the whole nonlinear beauty of time and life and celestial grace. It's so rare that I just want to reproduce bushels of quotes from the book as the gist of my review. TO’s passages are so elegant and infinite, I am deeply moved by his themes of assimilation, alienation, addiction, sobriety, suicide, stories, sickness, psychosis, isolated trauma and shared trauma, generational trauma, memory, death. I felt a collective consciousness with all the characters, because Tommy Orange puts people in his stories, not stand-ins. It’s fiction, but the characters are specific and dimensional, their interiorities a deep well. He gets to the heart of storytelling. “There are many stories for what happens after you die. You become light or become dead light of stars or you swim the river in the sky or you become the soil in the earth. Angels and demons and ghosts. Anything is a story we tell ourselves about a silence.” Within the author’s sublime language, he makes no bones about the pain of Natives. Like There There, Orange nails it when it comes to addiction, not just from a reportage kind of view, but inside, in the essence of a person who is suffering, screaming inside and yet somehow seeming to function, until they don’t. All the pretty words that Orange uses become solid, brick-like, when he talks about addiction. “That’s what addiction had aways felt like, like the best little thing you’d forget on the worst day possible, or the worst big thing on a day in a life you thought kept getting better because you kept getting high.” I am thrilled I read this right after reading TT. You don’t have to, they both stand alone, but together they are even more exceptional, as this novel is both a prequel and a sequel to There There. The story opens with the harrowing Sand Creek Massacre of 1864, when the US Army slaughtered the Arapaho and Cheyenne tribes. My heart was already in my teeth at that point. The descendant line is re-imagined by Tommy Orange. And the reader learns what happened at the end of There There, which was an abrupt bur inexorable cliffhanger of a finale. Tommy Orange also talks about the paradox of the 1924 citizenship bestowed upon Indian tribes in the U.S., how the citizenship was a euphemism for dissolving tribes, dissolve being another word for disappearance, “a kind of chemical word for a gradual death of tribes and Indians, a clinical killing, designed by psychopaths calling themselves politicians.” “Citizenship being granted will be a kind of victory too, because you will not have died in any of the wars or massacres, you will have survived starving and relocation, indoctrination and assimilation, you will have lasted long enough that they had to say that you too, our longtime, once mortal enemy, even you are one of us, even if its meanings, its rights, won’t come for decades, the seed will have become there, in the year you were born.” Tommy Orange put the Natives in Oakland, California on the consequential map; Orange is a national treasure. Keep on writing for us, for everyone, for your tribe, for your culture, and for those outside your culture. We are all connected. If TT was a 5 (yes, it was), then this is a 7, even though we don’t have the stars we can assign for it. We are wandering stars, all of us. I want to add another favorite quote of mine from this book: “Everything about your life will feel impossible. And you being or becoming an Indian will feel the same. Nevertheless you will be an Indian and an American ad a woman and a human wanting to belong to what being human means.” A massive thank you to Knopf for sending me this book without my even asking. You must have known it was written for me, a white, Caucasian, Jewish girl from Boston. I feel just a little bit Native American Oakland Californian after reading this masterpiece.

There are Consequences We did inhumane things to Native Americans in the name of taking over (“settling”) our new property. This is not a news flash, you can look it up, there are facts and footnotes in your Wikipedia. Seems like a long time ago– what with cowboys and such…sepia picture images so far removed from life today. “Wandering Stars,” emerges with violence before author Tommy Orange depicts the ceaseless efforts to systematically eliminate any trace of Native culture. How this history effectively shackles today’s Native American is what we discover here. In 1864, approximately 230 Cheyenne and Arapaho people, mostly women and children, were brutally murdered and mutilated in the Sand Creek massacre. “Wandering Stars” starts there, with a young Jude Star surviving the attack, only to be captured and sent to Carlisle Industrial Indian School, an infamous re-education institution tasked with assimilating Native Americans into civilized society. The school’s founder, Richard Henry Pratt, lived by the expression, “Kill the Indian, save the man.” He told students they were being taught to become Carlisle Indians, a new tribe belonging to the school and the U.S. government. The children were whitewashed, severed from any trace of their history or heritage. This is only a portion of the book. The point is bridging the trauma of the past with today. We see subsequent generations orphaned from their past, only vaguely aware of their ancestors and their folklore. Here are people hurting today, not just mysterious tragic figures frozen in history. Drug addiction, alcoholism, depression, suicide… companions to the sustained dehumanization. “Wandering Stars” is a prequel and sequel to Tommy Orange’s “There There,” a Pulitzer Prize finalist in 2018. You do not have to have read the first book to follow the character or buy into their stories. It is a riveting read and provides an important bridge from history to what is being dealt with today. It is enlightening. Thank you to Knopf and NetGalley for providing an advance reader copy in exchange for an honest review. “The so-called Chivington or Sand Creek Massacre, in spite of certain most objectionable details, was on the whole as righteous and beneficial a deed as ever took place on the frontier.” – Theodore Roosevelt

4.5 stars Wandering Stars is the follow up novel to Tommy Orange’s award winning book, There There. I highly recommend reading the books in order rather than attempting to do a standalone read with Wandering Stars. That way you can fully appreciate the depth of the characters and story. The author’s books should be required reading. They provide an opportunity to learn about Native history in a more accurate light than the education I received at school as a kid growing up in the 80s and 90s. I’ll try to tiptoe around spoilers for those who haven’t read There There yet but Wandering Stars shows what happened to some of the characters who attended the Big Oakland Powwow. It also goes back to the 1800s and features some of the ancestors of the current day characters. It really drives home the point how a person is shaped by previous generations and the horrific treatment of Natives by the US government and its people continues to impact the descendants. Addiction is a topic that is thoroughly explored in this book and yet another thing that gives it substance. Both books are important reads and I highly recommend checking them out. Thank you Knopf for providing a free advance copy! All thoughts expressed are my honest opinion.

Five years ago, after reading Tommy Orange's There There, I had the pleasure of meeting him at a reading. This was before his book became a "thing," an award winner, a Pulitzer finalist, a huge best seller. The place was packed. He had a deer-in-the-headlights quality to him, amazed that more than the dozen or so indigenous readers he'd expected would find his book important enough to spend time with. In subsequent interviews, he has gained confidence and poise, acquired a richness of purpose that shines through in this, his sophomore follow-up. Tracing the family first presented in There There, Wandering Stars begins with an 19th century massacre, continues with lives of survivors and brings to light the colonizing atrocities perpetuated on the Cheyenne by the U.S. government. Orange's research is impeccable. The balance of the book returns to present day Oakland, following the events described in the previous one, and the descendants of those earlier Cheyenne are trying to cope with the fallout. Central to the story are the recovery efforts of Orvil and his aunt Opal's working to keep her family together despite the infiltration of opioids into their lives as well as the PTSD being experienced by Orvil's younger brother. Operating from several different viewpoints, sometimes even employing the first person, giving this a more introspective quality, Orange's beautiful prose highlights what is truly a wonderful masterwork.

If Wandering Stars has caught your attention, and by all means, it absolutely should, please, please, please make sure you read There, There first. While not called a sequel, storylines from beloved characters continue, and you cannot read one without the other and get the full experience. A constellation of narratives, just like a constellation of stars, Wandering Stars digs into the past and future of these characters. It’s an exploration of colonial atrocities, including institutions like the Carlisle Indian School, committed by the US government on the Cheyenne and other indigenous people. Wandering Stars is also an exploration of addiction and recovery, as well as PTSD and “othering.” It’s a story of intergenerational trauma, and one that may need to be read slowly, thoroughly digesting the characters’ experiences in their rawest form. I was invested fully and had been eagerly awaiting this follow-up. These are just some of my scattered thoughts. Important, urgently so, powerful, brutal, emotional, raw, and masterful. Thank you to Knopf for the free copy of the book. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

Tommy Orange brings a freshness to the generational history saga. His characters all struggle with the persecutions, tragedies and mysteries of their Cheyenne heritage. His ungrammatical sentences often perform loops. Addiction is a central theme so these loops acquire a depth of meaning as they form an integral part of the novel's structure. In fact, towards the end he writes: Every day is a loop. Every day is the sun rising, and the sun going down, and the sleep we must sleep. Every day is life convincing us it's not a loop. Addiction is that way too." There's a lot of what feels like hard earned wisdom in this novel and I found it an enriching read.

Tommy Orange is one of these cover-to-cover type authors (you read the quote(s)at the beginning, the prologue, the afterward, and acknowledgments) just for the sheer joy of his writing. Orange has a family tree covering generations in the front of the book that I kept referring to. It helped with the imagery and I think it was important to the flow of the book. He has a delightful but sad way of weaving historical events into his stories (hence, his cover-to-cover read). In this book, he infuses events of the Sand Creek Massacre in Colorado where 230 Native Americans were massacred including 150 women, children and the elderly. There is also the history of Indian schools that forced indigenous boys and girls to assimilate to teachings about the Bible, Jesus and dress code. Wondering stars is DARK in such a profound way that it makes me stop and pause. His prophetic style of writing in the book, makes me always wanting more. Orange weaves the generational trauma that indigenous people have suffered at the hands of whites for years and he does it so eloquently. Please write more Tommy Orange!!

I've been looking forward to reading this book since I read There, There, so there were some big expectations here, and Tommy Orange did not disappoint. In what is a mix of before and after the events of There, There we learn much more about Orvil Red Feather's family. The book starts with the Sand Creek Massacre in 1864 and Jude Star. It follows his life and the lives of his family all the way until we get to Orvil after the Powwow at the end of There, There. We see trauma after trauma, from the Massacre, to a prison camp, to the eradication of Cheyenne culture in the boarding schools, and drug and alcohol addiction as a form of self medication for depression and PTSD. First off, this is far from a light read, as you can tell from the previous paragraph. I did like that we got more insight into the Star/Bear Shield/Red Feather families. There's a family tree in the front, and I suggest that you bookmark that page so you can refer back to it. I really enjoy Orange's writing style and how he got us into the mind of each character as they struggle to survive amidst a myriad of wrongs committed against them, while also letting us see their hopes and desires, their search for identity and where they belong in the world. You don't necessarily have to read There, There before reading this, but I would suggest it. I will be eagerly anticipating Tommy Orange's next book! My thanks to Knopf, author Tommy Orange, and NetGalley for gifting me a digital copy of this book. My opinions are my own.

(Book 5 of my Journey through the booker prize longlist ) 5 ⭐️ When I saw that the booker prize longlist came out I decided to challenge myself to read as much as I can before the shortlist was decided, I find it so exciting to be able to try and predict the winner, however; since there is 13 books on the longlist I know I will not be able to get through them all & I had to prioritise the books I think sound the most intriguing… along comes Wandering Stars. “You get a light behind you when what feels like the worst that can happen to you happens to you. It never goes away. It lives behind you. It’s there whenever you need it. The light shoots through, bright and wide and says: At least I’m not there. Back there when we thought the lights went out forever. At least this is not that.” Wow, another incredible reading experience, The prequel/sequel to "There There". A story filled with raw and stunning prose filled with conversations surrounding addiction, heartbreak, indigenous identity & genocide. Separated into two parts, the first part jumping back in time to 1864, where approximately 200+ Cheyenne & Arapaho people were horrendously murdered in the Sand Creek massacre. We follow a young boy who survives the attack and goes on to live a life trying to adjust and continue his life in a white washed oppressive world. In the second part of the book we jump back to the characters from "There There". Orvil Red Feather, Jaquie Red Feather, Opal Viola Victoria Bear Shield & the rest of the family is trying to heal from the Big Oakland Powwow shooting and the repercussions of living with generational trauma, all whilst maintaining that firey, harsh & raw prose. Whilst this is still classified as a standalone much like TT, I personally do think it is really important to read "There There" first as this story makes more sense and will be easier to read if you have the provided context. The multiple POV's can get confusing otherwise as there is a lot of different characters.

When I read the first pages of Tommy Orange’s debut novel There There, I was instantly gripped, emotionally and intellectually. I was thrilled to read Wandering Stars, which takes up the same characters, beginning with the inception of the family’s trauma at the Sand Creek Massacre. A number of years ago I read a book on the Sand Creek Massacre that was commissioned by the United Methodist Church as part of their repentance and reconciliation with Indigenous people; the leader of the massacre was a member of the Methodist Episcopal Church when he lead the attack on a group of women, children, and elderly men. Orange begins his novel with a survivor of the massacre. Wandering and starving, he turns himself over to the authorities only to be arrested for a crime he did not do. He takes the name Jude Star after he is indoctrinated to be Christian and learns English. Assimilation was one of the words they used for Indians becoming white in order to survive, in order that they might not be killed for being Indians. from Wandering Stars by Tommy Orange The next generation finds Star’s son Charles taken to a residential school with the purpose of destroying Native culture and erasing its history. After leaving the school, Star and fellow student Opal Viola try to build a new life. But generation after generation carry inherited trauma, each struggling with issues of identity, lost heritage, and substance abuse. The latest generation includes Orvil Redfeather, who was shot while dancing in his first Pow Wow, as told in There There. It is an engrossing read with wonderful characters and storytelling, and a disturbing read as we are immersed in the experiences of these characters and are reminded of the horrendous acts against humanity that shaped our country. Thanks to the publisher for a free book.

I think you can say that “Wandering Stars” is a sequel to “There There” and yet you could also say it’s a prequel. Orange writes not only about Orvil and what has happened to his family in the aftermath of the shooting but also delves into the past to shine a light on how the characters have got to the state they are in. Orvil, the character who was shot in the previous novel has become addicted to opioids. Like so many others who are treated for pain, the “high” from the prescribed drugs proves irresistible to satiate and this addiction is a major theme of the novel. Just like the first novel, Orange has written wonderful characters and used them to raise awareness of the societal problems that are faced. Obvious problems such as the suicides and the addiction, but also problems that are not as easy to see and address. Young Native Americans who yearn to embrace their true culture and heritage but struggle to find a point to even start the search. My knowledge of the Native Americans and their plight is very limited, however the more I read novels such as Orange’s two wonderful books, the similarities between America and Australia are alarming but despairingly not surprising. The massacres, the attempts to assimilate the population into a new religion and culture. The addiction and self-destruction that inevitably follows. Reassuringly there is also the similarity of the survival of the indigenous population. Fiction like this is so important in raising awareness of these problems. Another great book from Orange.

A book that I cannot stop thinking about, I do not have the words to truly encapsulate the profound experience of reading Wandering Stars; a must read. A contender for my book of the year, Wandering Stars is a powerful sweeping novel of historical and contemporary fiction. A generational story of a Cheyenne family (a Native American tribe), it features some of Tommy Orange's characters from his award winning debut There There. Don't worry, you don't have to have read There There (I hadn't,) but after this you'll want to! (I started it straight away!) I expect to see it on many literary prize lists next year. In Part 1 we experience a different ancestor's life with each chapter, but just one small piece of that life. At the end of every chapter I was left wanting to know so much more about each character, their life, and what happened to them, just as their descendants in the novel do. This is the awful reality of a people, their history and culture being intentionally and systematically wiped out by white people; the forced loss; the now unknown. From massacre, to enforced boarding "schools", to forced migration and beyond. Reading it was a profound and brutal experience. Part 2 focuses on the family's modern day descendants. Orange so skilfully shows how the past bleeds through into these characters and their lives. Wandering Stars thrums with themes of identity, family, belonging, loss, trauma, and addiction.

was hooked from the first line. The author has such a distinctly rhythmic writing style that reads at times like poetry or songwriting. It was great to get that closure from the first book as well. Highly, highly recommend for anyone in general and anyone who read there, there previously

Wandering Stars is, in part, a sequel to part of There There , Tommy Orange's debut novel. There There pulled together a web of contemporary characters, most of whom seemed unrelated until the last quarter of the book. Wandering Stars also contextualized a local event (There There focused on events at a pow-wow), but rather than focusing on people who were currently alive, Wandering Stars went back five generations in Orvil's family for its first 123 pages (of 312). His ancestors described being massacred, sent to boarding schools, "enslaved" (although the whites did not see this as enslavement), and adopted without being given a sense of racial or cultural identity. "You were supposed to kill the entire Indian if they were to be saved. Later it was said that Indian children in boarding schools had the same chance of dying as soldiers in one of the world wars" (p. 11). All but two characters in the latter part of this book have substance abuse problems. I don't think I'm misreading Orange in saying that he is drawing a straight line between the cultural and generational trauma in the first part of his book and their substance abuse and bad choices in the second. Orange gives moving and convincing descriptions of substance abuse and its treatment, although ultimately his characters must reconnect to each other and their culture: "Healing is holy and if you have the chance to not have to carry something alone, with people you love, it should be honored, the opportunity, it should be honored, and you all got selfish about it, you all got scared it was gonna be bigger than our love and then it was" (p. 310). Or, as Orvil's great-aunt noted: Jude Star would have been my great-grandfather. My great-grandfather survived the Sand Creek Massacre, and his son survived boarding schools, and his daughter, my mother, survived losing her mother and being raised by white people. And still brought us up knowing who we were. Who we are. Somehow. So why had I been sheltering the boys from their culture? Something made so strong it survived more than it should have survived. It was more than survival. The culture sings. The culture dances. The culture keeps telling stories that bring you into them, take you away from your life and bring you back better made. (p. 248). I read Wandering Stars after having read There There three years ago. If I were to do this over again, I'd read them in order more closely together. There There's cast of characters is so large, the original book so complex, that I needed a reread.

read this with perpetual tears in my eyes. Tommy Orange's writing continues to be so powerful and absolutely heartwrenching.

Thankfully, the Dutch texts out of Suriname are being translated into English. On a Woman's Madness by Astrid Roemer is such an amazing, seminal work that I regret not being able to speak Dutch so that I could have read this book much earlier in my life, and because I would be able to read the original, untranslated poetic mastery and craft of Roemer. The novel is nonlinear, as it takes the reader on a journey through the troubled life of Noenka, who faces tremendous adversity from her family, her community, and to a great extent, country. She is forced to deal with a problematic and unhealthy marriage to an abusive womaniser, while she traverses Suriname in search of true love. In this quest, she discovers the multicultural society that is Suriname and the tensions, suspicions and battles that go on among them as a result of being pitted against each other by the colonisers of Suriname. Noenka deals with having her heart in many places and with several individuals, as she is shattered by the death of one of her lovers. Roemer then takes the reader on a journey into the taboo (at least for the time this novel was written), as we discover that Noenka was bisexual and fell in love with Gabrielle who, in essence, helps her along the roads of mental illness, family drama, marital abuse, lust, and loss that she has to travel, as a woman who is seen as 'mad' by society. Gabrielle is not without her troubles, and Roemer does a beautiful job of ending the novel by creating doubt in the reader's (at least for me) mind of whose madness she referred to in the title of the novel. I absolutely loved this novel. It is traumatic, but necessary. It is graphic, but absolutely believable. It is historical, but contemporary. Roemer shattered many ceilings and bars when she wrote this novel in 1982. It was bold to publish a novel on abortion. It was bold to publish a novel on queer women. It was bold to challenge society's perception of mental illness. It was bold to challenge misogyny. It was bold to challenge authority.

A unique book. A woman’s book. A book from the point of view of a woman of color. It’s not madness, it appears like madness in the heteronormative world we live in, the world of the nuclear family, of colonialism and under the strict Christian laws of capitalism. Noenka rebels against this world like many before her. Noenka is finding her way in life, first through her mother and father, then through a black husband, then through a lover who dies and finally in Gabrielle. But they get caught in the system. They want each other. They want to live. But the world does not want them. The story is told poetically and non- linearly. It is well done. I learned about Suriname and the Native cultures of South America, of the terrible history, of how some survived. There is so much to learn about the world and women. And it is so complex. First published in 1982, Astrid Roemer wrote it in Dutch. It was translated into English by Lucy Scott. I wonder if it will ever be published in Sranan Tongo.

Dense and intense, On a Woman's Madness is a novella that demands much of its readers. I struggled initially, but persevered by immersing myself into the beauty of the language passage by passage. The climax is sheer perfection, finally tying all that preceded it together.

Wow. Dense, poetic, chaotic, and just wow. There is so much in this book, such beautiful poetic flowing but dense writing, on top of a hell of a story, on top of the sensuality and life in there, on top of the history woven in, on top of the firy feminism. I’m in awe of Astrid Roemer. She won one prize?! She should have gotten them all.

wow…………incredible…………..am definitely going to read again……………not sure if i understood all of it but kind of didn’t need to?????? incredibly beautiful and sad

"We bury our dead within ourselves. We can also keep them alive. Everything that holds a place in our feelings stays alive. Everything we think of comes to life," p. 31 A haunting story about love, loss, betrayal, sin, sacrifice and the horrors of simply existing. This book should be required reading. It made me feel eerily uncomfortable, disgusted with humanity; it built me up and broke my heart.

This is a brilliant book, both in the writing and its literary construction. The Shadow King by Maaza Mengiste is, at the surface level, historical fiction set mostly in the 1935-1936 period in Ethiopia when Mussolini’s Italy invaded. It is a character study in that it follows the motivations, sorrows, and ambitions of people on both sides of the conflict. Insomuch as it shows their mental and spiritual flip-flopping as they struggle with events, it is a morality play. The story-lines for these characters cover a violent period of history and the action is depicted with all it’s terror and cruelty. The pressure of conflict never slows, creating an action-driven central plot that keeps readers engrossed. So this is a complex novel, with its many layers supporting themes of where meaning in life is to be found, and what is its relation to warfare and patriotism (the latter being colored by delusion and myth). When Mussolini invaded Ethiopia in October of 1935, Ethiopia’s inferior (to the Italians) army braced to defend against them. Supporting the regular army were militias commanded by local leaders. One of these leaders is Kidane, a man capable of both cruelty and condescending kindness. He rules his household with a firm hand, though with some resistance from his wife, Aster. Kidane and Aster have no children (their one son has died), but they have taken in the daughter of a childhood friend of Kidane’s, Hirut. Kidane’s relation to Hirut is a driving metaphor of this story. Kidane, basically a bully, is oppressive of both of these women. Aster matches him in cruelty, taking out his oppression of her on others, including Hirut, whom she marks with scars from a lashing (which seems to have been a favored punishment among leaders of that day). Their life is hard, and their “family” dysfunctional, even though Kidane is relatively well-to-do. Things change when the threat of war becomes imminent. The martial fervor that erupts upon the approaching invasion of the Italians, brings out a high patriotism in both Kidane and Aster. Aster, especially, assumes a near mythic persona with her intention to lead the women of Ethiopia against the invaders. She starts wearing Kidane’s clothing as a uniform, including a military cape of Kidane’s father. She inspires the women around her but is opposed by Kidane, who resents her breaking the bounds of a woman’s place. Kidane proves to be an effective military leader, earning the loyalty of his men. A large number of women also follow him. Their role is to support the men, but many desire to be warriors themselves, including Hirut. The rest of the story plays out from this scenario. When I began reading The Shadow King, I was immediately struck by the lack of quotation marks around the dialogue, within prose written in third-person present tense. For example: Well, you must know, don’t you? Kidane says without turning to Aklilu. You must have read this, I’m sure. The effect was a bit jarring at first, but I quickly got used to it. At some points, I had to study a bit to discover what was dialogue and who was saying it, but overall, it wasn’t a problem. I’m still uncertain as to whether this style adds anything to the narrative. It surely shortens the number of pages, since quoted dialogue, especially when it begins new paragraphs, adds to the page count. As it is, this book is 448, 6x9” pages. More noteworthy, is Ms. Mengiste’s stylistic approach. She is evidently well-read in Western Civilization’s literary classics because classical images and themes pervade The Shadow King. It seems the story’s war theme shares much with Shakespeare’s Henry V, regarding how wars are viewed differently by the elite who pursue them, the men and women who fight them, and the innocent who are victimized by them. Most interestingly, Ms. Mengiste used the literary device of the Chorus. Seen famously in classical Greek tragedies (e.g., Oedipus Rex), it is also used in Henry V. This is where one or more characters (referred to as “the chorus”) periodically “come on stage” and offer commentary about the story. This technique could be disastrous in contemporary storytelling because it takes the reader out of the story, but Ms. Mengiste handles it very well. She fits it snugly into her narrative where it enhances the story’s epic, mythic overtones. It does bring the reader out of the story for a space, but I think the intention of this book includes a “documentary” aspect, as well as storytelling. This makes the chorus, and the other literary devices noted below, work. Among the book’s chapters (which are not numbered, possibly because my copy of the book is an Advanced Reading Copy) are sections simply entitled, Interlude. These are mostly the story-line of the Ethiopian emperor, Haile Selassie. They are inserted at strategic points in the narrative, interjecting a bit of reality balance (Haile Selassie is an actual, historic figure) to the fiction. Even so, that thread is a close point-of-view for the emperor, showing his despair in the face of the Italian onslaught and his escape into the opera, Aida. I was struck at this picture of the overwhelmed emperor as being reminiscent of peoples’ present escapes into movies and video games in the face of an increasingly incomprehensible world. Small chapters labeled, photo, are also interspersed throughout the text. These are descriptions of photographs implicitly made during the story’s timeframe—as if they are pictures taken of the story’s action at the point of the telling. This is an emphasizing device since a main Italian character, Ettore, is a photographer as well as a soldier. There is no supposition that Ettore took these photos, but it does follow from the fact that this was a well-photographed war. Finally, regarding style, Ms. Mengiste’s narrative is not completely linear. She does a little time-hopping with some of it coming from a character’s stream-of-consciousness. It is, however, infrequent and not overdone, as it is in so much of current fiction. I thought the time-shifts fell naturally into the narrative and were not a cheap tension-builder to cover lazy writing. Let me emphasize the latter because Ms. Mengiste is obviously skilled in her craft far beyond cheating with such techniques. The Shadow King is rich in themes. “War being run by bullies” is a big one. Rape is used as a metaphor for this and so is depicted several times. That depiction is not pornographic, however. The scenes are brutal and heart-wrenching, but well-written and they make their points. Another theme is how war gives meaning to life for so many people. Ms. Mengiste weaves this theme into her characters’ searches for life meanings as they strive to overcome their personal demons. From here spawns tropes of “No way out but through,” and “loss as extinction,” where what is gone (whether things or people) is as if it never was. Many readers will appreciate the “empowering women" theme. Apparently, women played a large role in the Ethiopian army during this war, and so we see the pride taken by the two main female protagonists in becoming warriors. That empowerment is mitigated, however, by the ultimately dubious value of a warrior’s life at war. This leads to considerations of where our life meanings really come from. This is emphasized, I believe, in Ms. Mengiste’s broader definition of what “the shadow king” really is and in the translated name of the character, Minim, who impersonates the emperor. There is so much to ruminate over in this book, and I've only hit the high-points in this long review. I give it an enthusiastic five stars and recommend it to anyone who enjoys thoughtfulness and deep themes in their historical-fiction reading. Certainly, The Shadow King has taken its place on my list of favorite books.

“What he knows is this: there is no past, there is no "what happened", there is only the moment that unfolds into the next, dragging everything with it, constantly renewing. Everything is happening at once.” RATING: ?/? So: Imagine the novel as a play of shadows and light, a continuous tussle between the living and the dead. Imagine the photograph as frozen time, a method to capture life and seal it forever. Imagine the text as a thing of nooks and crannies, full of thematic echoes running across. The result then is Maaza Mengiste's second book. Call it a dazzling chiaroscuro, distilled as prose. Here's a narrative which soars towards the skies even as individuals spiral towards the ground. It's history made palpable, the past given volume. It's ghosts side-stepping, both alive and not. It's records set straight and women accorded their rightful place. There is much to like in one of my favourite reads of the year. It's quite stylistically unique with interludes, chorus sections, and photo descriptions employed as narrative devices. The writing is lush & lyrical, blazing with power. Every sentence is portentous and heavy, blazing with meaning, intent, and gravitas. The characters are complex, navigating a world which has rarely given them their due. Mengiste does not work with binaries. Her writing has stunning depth, replicating the aches & ambiguities of all the people whose stories it tells. The only way is forward and through it with you emerging a different person. .

Days under a scorching sun Muggy nights of restless sleep Blinding lights Unbearable heat Starry nights A bad trip Saints and premonitions Diseases and new addictions Syringes and freedom In a falling kingdom Words whispered in the night Lives shattered long ago Broken pieces and broken bones Falling tears Drops of blood Hearts of stone Heaven and hell Sinners and jesus Love and a spell Malignant and vicious

One of Hwang's best books. An absolute master at intertwining drama and real events. Might be a bit heavy for non-Korean history nerds, but if you're one then this is an absolute banger. Beautiful story, bittersweet and amazing.

"they say korea has been through so many twists and turns that one year here is a decade in another country. and ten years here is equal to a century. which means we're all hundreds of years old." really such a beautiful book, will stick with me forever. very hollowing in a way but also a solemn reminder of the reality of solidarity and change and the painful necessities of organizing for a better future.

4.5 stars. Ooof this one is a tome but it is a well-written tome, packed with historical and political detail, and I’m really glad to have read this even though it took all of my energy and concentration to do so. Mater 2-10 is a multigenerational saga about Japanese imperialism and the Korean fight for liberation from oppression that is so rich in detail that it threatens to be overthrown by its own scrupulousness. It is one that demands patience and when you are generous with giving it your all, ultimately rewards you with an experience so vast and profound and a knowledge so deep that you’ll end up feeling lucky to have read it. Mater 2-10 starts off with Yi Jino, who is now in a sit-in at the top of a chimney because his company has laid off multiple workers. This form of protest, common in South Korea, is an attempt to get the company to roll back these policies that are affecting the lives of so many common people. Now, Jino spends months atop that chimney, trying to form a routine for himself in the limited space, and is visited by the ghosts of people from his life. And through these, we are taken back to events in his life from before him ascending that chimney. We are also taken through the lives of his great-grandparents, grandparents, and parents, against the backdrop of colonial life under Japanese oppression. Off the top of my head, the themes in this book include: the struggles of the common man under these circumstances of oppression and violence, home life when things got bad outside, varying opinions in the same household, what it means to share blood, fighting for the right thing, making connections while being cautious, Communist resistance against Japanese oppression and the way it simmered under forceful, brutal repression, and above all of it: the hierarchy that exists among the working class and their rights that scale up accordingly. Mater 2-10 is not just a description. It is encyclopedic in itself, in the way it provides the knowledge needed to understand the story, including a lot of geographical details that help you gain an idea of the terrain that this story is playing out on. It is historical fiction, sure, but for large chunks of it, it will make you feel like you’re reading a nonfiction history, and the way the author dispenses with these details are tedious yet engaging. It can feel like it should be only one of the two but it is both. It will take all your energy and concentration and will leave you exhausted by the end of it. A century of history compressed into a historical fiction of 600 pages will do that to you. So it is with Mater 2-10, which has scores of historical, political, and civic details about the Japanese oppression of Korea. These are the very details that make this story so academic-sounding and dense, that needs you to be present in yourself when you read it. Because if you look away for even one moment, it will meander away enough for you to scramble to understand what’s happening. This happened to me multiple times where I had to read pages again because my mind would wander for 2 seconds and I found myself lost in the story. But that, I think in this book, is a huge plus. Because it keeps you invested, keeps you attached to the story, no matter if you forget the history 10 minutes later. You will always have that base to fall back upon. This reminds me of Delhi: A Soliloquy that I read in 2020. It is also thick with detail and starts off slow but slowly gathers steam while maintaining a steady pace. Loved that book. Love Mater 2-10.

Mater 2-10 is a monumental novel. Hwang Sok-yong richly animates the struggles of the working class Koreans against the oppressive forces of Japanese occupation in the early 1900s and the wealthy ruling class up to the present day. The stories of the lives caught underneath these forces are deeply resonant and at times tragic, but there is hope to be found in their continued resilience and the creative ways that the resolve for progress has survived over a century of hardship. The main story takes place in the present day and concerns a middle aged factory worker named Jino who has been laid off from his union job after his factory was sold and gutted by new ownership. To protest, he stages a sit-in atop one of the factory’s chimneys that he understands could go on for months. It is a daring act of endurance that would make for a compelling story alone, but Hwang Sok-yong uses it as a framing device to delve into the history of the man’s lineage in the manner of folktale by conjuring his ancestors who come to visit him as apparitions on his lonely perch. The author takes us back three generations, weaving through gripping tales of the secret political organizing of the socialist movement and harsh conditions of life under the Japanese and later American occupation. Hwang Sok-yong’s writing style is pragmatic, often focusing on the more salient details of events instead of getting caught up on trivial fixations. This straightforward approach anchors the historical context of the characters and places, and also makes the more poetic flourishes more effective, both in the borderline magical realism elements (a character is described as being clairvoyant, a deceased matriarch appears at crucial moments in the lives of various characters) and occasional ideological perspective. There are times when the writing feels almost unbounded by traditional narrative in its wandering through different times and characters, and sometimes it was difficult to keep up with all the different places and names, but I can’t honestly say I ever doubted where the author was taking me, such was the strength of Hwang Sok-yong’s voice. He is a terrific writer and I am excited to read more of his works.

what an interesting and heartwarming reading experience. i love our country ; that i knew , but the tears leaking from my eyes forced me to face how much i needed to feel my adoration for my people . thank you cousin for writing true sentences that resonate mysteriously and stir boundlessly within me. i certainly do not agree with all of 한병철's work but he relays and ends his interview with this: "If you compare my thoughts to a fruit, the peel and pulp are romantic German. But the pit, no, the pit is that of an exotic fruit." i have always been treated as an exotic fruit growing older in america but my outer shell is of an aggressive american woman. I cannot shake the fruit inside me ; she clings to my tree and this tree has always been there for as long as anyone can remember . the pacing of this book is hard to judge from how many personal breaks i had to take from the subject matter alone. mater 2-10 shifted my perspective on reading . i love my people . i love our resilience . i love our country .

Mater 2-10 tells the history of the Korean labor movement and its ties to socialist and Korean independence organizing, from ~1910 during the Japanese occupation of Korea to modern day, through a generational story of a working class family. The scope of this novel is impressive - in the afterword Hwang Sok-yong as having worked on this story for 30 years, and I haven't read his other works yet, but it feels like a magnum opus. The narrative voice moves between close and distant - zooming in to describe a characters minute actions, memories, and thoughts or zooming out to describe key figures in the political zeitgeist - in a way that makes the writing have momentum even as it is didactic. It was a really informative novel that made me think about the ways that living conditions for the working class have and have not changed, and the role of labor (coerced and volunteered) in nation-building.

Jino is a man in his mid-fifties who worked for 25 years in factories. He'd received promotions, was a respected employee but was "fired" when the factory was shut and sold off. Everyone lost their jobs, but the workers fought to get their jobs back and this involved Jino sitting atop a sixteen storey chimney for months. Perched above the world, he thinks through the lives of his ancestors, three generations of railway workers. (The title of the book is the name of a locomotive.) Through their lives we see Korean experience from the Japanese occupation through to the 21st century. So much suffering and injustice. The novel moves from very personal experiences to the wider picture, and the novel is an excellent introduction to Korean history. Repeatedly I had my lack of knowledge tested and found wanting. After reading Hwang Sok-yong's novel, I'll seek to discover more about this country.

** spoiler alert ** A multi generational story that follows an activist organizing a protest on top of a catwalker in contemporary Korea and his ancestors who have lived through Japan's occupation of Korea, the Korean War, and American imperialism. Story not only focuses on the everyday realities of people across time but examines the links between colonialism and capitalism and how these systems are interconnected. There's a lot of history here, with some magical realism sprinkled throughout. The book is, at times, difficult to read, with descriptive depictions of violence and torture. But there are ruptures of joy, resistance, and hope. You get a sense from the book that we are not just ourselves, that the people that came before us shape us and still guide us. And that despite the long 400-day solitary protest that Jino partakes in, he's not ever truly alone.

Jonathan Escoffery’s first book, If I Survive You is an intimate account of being black, poor, and dislocated in America. The story commences with a Jamaican couple escaping Kingston for the US in 1979, during a period of intense political violence. The couple, Topper and Sanya, flee to Miami to set up a safer, better life. In time, the couple have two boys – Delano, the eldest and Trelawny, the main character. There are eight stories here, all inter-related but non-consecutive. All involve the extreme challenges faced by immigrant families in the US. The author presents raw accounts of alienation, discrimination, violence, family breakdown and poverty. My word if life isn’t hard enough. It makes one wonder how some people living these lives keep going. Perhaps many don’t. Also, relationships can experience difficulties at the best of times, but these people have so many struggles just finding a home, a job, food, and some security – no wonder marriages don’t last. It makes one want to cry. Not from pity, but the abject hopelessness of this situation. Take Trelawney for example, such a decent boy. He loved reading, he was considerate and quiet – his father took these qualities as weaknesses. But this boy, just wanted to, and strived to be a productive human being. Thwarted at every turn. How many times was he asked – “what are you?” Meaning – what type of person of colour are you, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Latino? Because you aint black, my man – that seems to be reserved for African Americans. I didn’t realise this tension existed. The real sealer in this gritty expose of immigrant life is the author’s use of the second person narrative. Now, I can’t recall being exposed to this form of narration, but it really worked here. After a short while of total confusion (mine), I settled down and really got it. This second person POV really made this an intimate experience. Instead of reading what Trelawney was thinking for example, I was Trelawney!!. The reader is the primary character, Wow!!!! What a treat. This is why we read, yes?? Your father seems not to notice that you’ve spoken at all, and says ‘what if you do buy this house from me?’ which sounds like to you like ‘what if this house became exclusively your problem’? Narration like this, puts the reader front and centre. A novel experience for me – and considering the nature of the subject matter here, the author made the poverty, violence, discrimination, much more personal, or as personal as it can be. Brilliant. 5 Stars

Fresh, biting, laugh out loud funny, chilling, relatable and brazen! A debut collection that you won’t soon forget! If I Survive You is a collection of interconnected short stories told from a Jamaican family living in Miami. While it is a collection of short stories, it does read like a novel because each story connects and move the plot along, while being told from the point of view of different family members. We meet Christopher (Topper) and Sanya, both were born and grew up in Jamaica in the 1950s, they met and fell in love but with the political turmoil they moved to Miami with their son Delano and end up having another son- Trelawny while in Miami. With a loan from his father, Topper opens a landscaping business, business begins to boom after Hurricane Andrew but not enough to combat the recession. The family topples over when Topper heads to Jamaica after the death of his parents and in a moment of weakness- make a decision that impacts his family greatly. Topper and Sanya separates, Sanya gets Trelawny and Topper ends up with Delano. With the family falling out, we see how this impacts each member uniquely…. But also, this book is so much more than that. We meet Trelawny who is constantly having an identity crisis- he doesn’t look or sound Jamaican, he looks Dominican but cannot speak Spanish and Black people don’t know which box to put him in. He doesn’t understand his Jamaican father and wishes he could call the island home. Delano is his father’s son- he decides to skip University and with a loan from his father he opens a business but while he got a strong start in life, ended up with a wife and two children- with the second recession will he end up like his dad? Sanya decides she is done taking care of men and wants to live her life now. Topper, isn’t sure what is next for him but he still wants to find for his marriage. We meet characters who are going through it. I think what I enjoyed most about this book is the writing. I am blown away at how distinct each POV is- it is unmistakable who is narrating their chapter because of the writing and storytelling. There were moments when I literally was laughing out loud- and being insanely sad because it feels as if each character just cyan ketch a little break. I think at the heart of this book is the humanity, each character wants to be better, to be change, to have a better way but they are living in a country that is not for them and it feels the deck is always stacked against them. We meet a father who failed, who is fathering a son he doesn’t recognize or cannot seem to read. We meet a son who constantly struggles to fit in, to know he is and what is his place in the world. I am not going to lie- Topper must be the most hilarious character I’ve read in a long time. The man had the HOWLING with his one liner. If you loved Mr. Loverman and the main character then you are going to eat Topper up. He may not be as loveable as Barrington but one thing is for sure, he is HILARIOUS. This book is written with so much heart, it is nuanced, fresh, engaging and offers so much food for thought. I want everyone to read this book. If you loved How To Love A Jamaican or Frying Plantain Please watch out for this truly amazing debut novel- I could not get enough of it!

BOOKER PRIZE 2023 LONGLIST IF I SURVIVE YOU by Jonathan Escoffery ***** Here’s to giving a book a second chance. I had listened to the audiobook back when it was longlist for the National Book Award and bailed after 40 percent, just not engaging with the wide range of perspectives that the book is told from. When it was longlist for the Booker Prize I felt I should give it a chance and grabbed a library copy. It was brilliant and I read it in a few days. IF I SURVIVE YOU follows a Jamaican family that had fled their home for Miami in hopes of greater prospects. Economic precarity and constant weather-induced destruction turned their lives into constant struggles to make ends meet. Although pitched as an interconnected series of stories, the book has the cohesion of the novel. Mostly told from the perspective of the family’s youngest son Trelawny, his supports and community are constantly disturbed by external events. His father leaves with his elder brother, playing favourites and constantly doubting Trelawny’s worth. He goes to school to a highly regarded midwestern college only to find upon graduating the labour market ravaged by the Great Recession. He looks for meaningful work to put a house over his head, but he’s always uncertain whether he can survive. Interspersed are chapters told by his father, his brother and cousin, each overing additional detail to the family’s hopes and failures. Escoffery writes precise and propulsive prose, masterfully presenting each distinct voice and describing the ever-present landscape of the characters’ lives. At times it did feel a bit too workshopped, but mostly this was just a joy to read. It is a very male novel, focusing on issues of fatherhood (and failure of fathers) and presenting a mostly male gaze. But that doesn’t take away from the broader picture Escoffery is trying to convey. It also offers another important voice to the growing number of “2008 recession” novels, an event that continues to pervade into the lack of opportunity for American millennials. Definitely makes my shortlist if I were to decide. #bookstareadsthebooker2023 #bookstagramreadsthebooker #bookerprize #bookprizes #literaryfiction #igbooks #americanliterature #recessionliterature #libby #ebooks

What is a nine-year-old supposed to answer when asked the question, “What are you”? Does a nine-year-old know what the word “racism” means? Have they experienced it and just not know what it is called? This is a novel of eight interconnected short stories with the theme of identity and race at its core. It is the story of a family that has migrated from Jamaca to Miami. It is the story of Trelawny, the youngest son of the family, searching for answers to the question posed to him at the beginning of the book. “What are you”? This is a wickedly funny book. The dark feeling of hopelessness that hovers over every story like the hurricanes that feature heavily in the narrative, cannot hide the humor. The Jamaican patois, at times a challenge to understand, again adds to the hilarity of much of the dialogue. Most of the book reads like a car crash. It’s all there in the title. It’s horrible but you just can’t look away, you must keep reading. Surely things can't get worse for poor Trelawny. But it is not just Trelawny who struggles. The short story “Splashdown” about Trelawny’s cousin Cukie is brilliant and my favorite part of the novel. Well actually my favorite part of the novel is the use of the ackee tree as a metaphor for immigration. Trelawny's brother brings an ackee tree to Miami for his father. It is used to symbolize the struggle of the immigrant to survive and flourish in a new land, a new climate. Just as it does, Trelawny in a fit of rage chops it down. Culture turning on itself??? Genius, or am I just reading too much into it? This gem of a book is a story about how race and the colour of your skin still today, in many parts of the world, define “what” you are. It is about trying to fit in with different cultures, trying to be not just comfortable, but proud of “what” you are. I loved everything about this book. I loved how it is written in the second person, the stories interconnecting, the perspective changes, the dark humor. I cannot wait for Escoffery to write another book.

A fantastic string of stories building a greater novel of Jamaican immigrants. Topper and Sanye along with their child Delano, have fled political violence and made a new life in Florida. After settling and having an additional child Tre. Very quickly their children learn that in the U.S they exist between races and don't necessarily fit in with any group. Through Hurricane Andrew, the '08 recession, and multiple family issues, we follow this engaging family. If you like culturally interesting stories, beautiful writing, or just like an American immigration story, then If I Survive You is for you! #IfISurviveYou #FararStrauss #Netgalley

LOVED this book. 4.5 stars

IF I SURVIVE YOU took my breath away. These interconnected stories not only surprise and delight, but they introduce to us an important storyteller and human.

A powerful look at race, culture, and class in America. A small book that packs quite the punch.

I was exceedingly fortunate to receive an early review copy of this book. Escoffery's debut collection of linked short stories is an utterly unique glimpse into the world of Caribbean immigrants to America. The primary character, Trelawney, is the underdog you want to root for, that your heart breaks for as he struggles to find place and identity in a world that isn't always very kind. Escoffery's prose is truly stunning and a real joy to read. I found myself enjoying each sentence as much as I did each scene. I'm definitely looking forward to more books by this author.

Thanks to Netgalley and FSG for the ebook. This is a dazzling group of connected short stories that follows one family, parents and their two sons, as they’ve left Jamaica for Miami. The stories span years and follow each character at critical moments, including the dangerous political time in Jamaica that made the move to the States necessary, how the parents split up, each taking a son to live with them, how the one son struggles to get a college degree that seems useless the day after he receives it, how the other brother is torn between his tree trimming business and his floundering musical career. It’s such a smart and surprising book of stories that explore the secrets and resentments in one family.

The canon of Miami literature is small, and this deserves a top spot. Escoffery’s writing is tight, and he highlights the social politics of the city in a way I haven’t seen done in fiction. Can’t recommend this enough.

4.5 stars I am grateful to Farrar, Straus and Giroux for sending me an advanced copy of this book for review. I thoroughly enjoyed this collection of short stories. This was a great example of someone really exploring the complexities of the Caribbean diaspora in America and I really thought it was expertly done. I enjoyed the structure of this book, looking at a family overtime in a non-linear fashion. This allowed us to explore both the Caribbean setting and the American setting to see how the lives of members in this family contrasted with each other, and how the existence of someone who straddles the line between two cultures can be quite tumultuous. The writing style was very clean, and the use of patois and Caribbean colloquial English enhanced the power of the storytelling. I like that this book focused on the very important theme of identity being dependent upon where you are located, and the society that you are immersed in . It also really pointed out the ways in which race relations within specific ethnic groups can be quite complicated and how that can be quite traumatic. I also liked the complexity of family relationships that were explored in this book, and how well developed and interesting all the characters were, not just our main perspective. I found many parts of this book to be quite sad, but there was a good quantity of humor that lightened the mood and made the reading experience enjoyable. I am so grateful When I see books like this that explore the Caribbean and the diaspora without making it into and exercise on how much trauma can we layer on to one person in one story. I did find some portions of the book to be unnecessary and rambling, but that is my only critique and it did not hinder my overall enjoyment. This story was quite nuanced, and I feel like it would be a recognizable and intriguing story for Caribbean readers, for Caribbean diasporic readers, and for other readers I think it could provide some eye opening perspectives. Thoroughly, thoroughly, thoroughly enjoyed this one. I recommend it to readers of literary fiction, historical fiction, and cultural stories.

I’m very happy to report that this upcoming novel, is fun and weird, with lots of thinking about painting and power structures, and lots of plotting beneath the surface, and a surprising Iris Murdoch vibe, and paragraphs as good as anyone. It's great - really great

Now a Finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award for Fiction. Longlisted for the Booker Prize Lorenzo in Taos “High-class pseudo-philosophical hocus-pocus” ... thundered Aldous Huxley in 1933 while reviewing Mabel Dodge Luhan’s Lorenzo in Taos. This was her epistolary account of DH Lawrence’s time in the New Mexico town in the 1920s, with his wife Frieda, at Mabel Dodge Luhan’s invitation. Published two years after his death and ostensibly about the famed author, The New York Times Book Review in 1932 described it as “a puzzling book … more of a revelation of Mrs Luhan than of Lawrence.” She had hoped that Lawrence would capture Taos, and the local Pueblo community, in the same way as his Sea and Sardinia: “Here is the only one who can really see this Taos country and the Indians, and who can describe it so that it is as much alive between the covers of a book as it is in reality.” But his output failed to meet her expectations and they ultimately parted on bad terms, with DH Lawrence criticising her in his literary output and her verdict on him at the end of her book: “Well Jeffers. That is all I have to tell you about Lorenzo in Taos. I called him there, but he did not do what I called him to do. He did another thing” Why “Jeffers”? Well, much of Lorenzo in Taos was in the form of correspondence with a poet Robinson Jeffers, who she hoped might deliver where Lawrence didn’t. The preface to Lorenzo in Taos begins: “Dear Jeffers — This book tries to show you how we felt and acted some years ago. When Frieda read it, she wrote me: “But Lorenzo was not like that any more. Taos changed him…” I told her that I could only tell in these pages how we all were then, that I had lived through the time we passed together here and recorded it, and so this recollection is only of the painful days that brought about changes in us all, and not of the change itself.” Second Place Rachel Cusk’s Second Place takes Lorenzo in Taos as an explicit inspiration. From a radio interview "It seemed to say say something or represent something essentially about femininity and the female voice, that I didn't feel I had actually met or encountered that thing before, which was an essential powerlessness or passivity or a condemnation to be the viewer, or the consumer, or the recipient, of art and male cultural privilege." Cusk's first person narrator M. is an author who lives with her second husband Tony in a house on the salt marshes (presumably inspired by, but far more remote, than Cusk’s own property in Norfolk.), albeit one she has now sold. Earlier, while married to her first husband, she encountered the work of the artist L. on a trip to Paris. This was a transformative experience but one that was first to bring her to a lowpoint in her life, including an incident on the journey back: I once told you, Jeffers, about the time I met the devil on a train leaving Paris, and about how after that meeting, the evil that usually lies undisturbed beneath the surface of things rose up and disgorged itself over every part of life. It was like a contamination, Jeffers: it got into everything and turned it bad. Many years later M. invites L. to their house in the belief (like Mabel Dodge Luhan with DH Lawrence) that he will, uniquely, be able to capture the essence of the surrounding marshes. He eventually comes, after an epoch-defining but unspecified event (which causes both markets to crash, and restricts international travel). And as with Lorenzo in Taos, things don’t pan out as the hostess expects, but it is nevertheless a transformative experience for all concerned. Is this an Oulipian take on Lorenzo in Taos? The novel would, I suspect, benefit from a close reading alongside Lorenzo in Taos as there are many many more parallels than just the basic setting. In Cusk's own words "it's a reuse of an existing text" and "finding Mabel's book was like finding an abandoned house and thinking here's a space that's already been built on, and I can go in there, and I can renovate it" rather than write a completely new book. Most obviously, the novel is addressed to a poet called Jeffers but some others I spotted (there are many more): - M’s husband Tony is unsure of his origins, even his ethnicity: His parents didn’t tell him he was adopted, and no one else ever referred to it, and since they lived a life of considerable isolation he says it wasn’t until he was eleven or twelve that he worked out what it meant that he was a different colour to them! I have seen photographs of Native Americans, and more than anything he looks like one of them. Mabel Dodge Luhan’s fourth husband was called Tony Luhan and was a Native American. - M’s first impression of L’s female companion Brett is that she has the “mouth of a comic-book gunman” - Mabel Dodge Luhan’s first impression of DH Lawrence’s wife was that she had “‘a mouth like a gunman.” - Brett’s name is inspired by the painter Dorothy Brett, another member of the Laos community, a rival for DH Lawrence’s attention and the subject of much opprobrium in the pages of Lorenzo in Taos. - DH Lawrence criticised Mabel Dodge Luhan for wearing loose fitting clothes - when L. eventually agrees to let M. sit for him, he tells her to wear something that fits. - DH Lawrence disliked a chair gifted to him by Mabel Dodge Lulan, calling it the “iron maiden”. L and Brett refer to a similar item as “the electric chair.” - DH Lawrence painted the cabin that the Luhan’s provided him in garish colours, including to their horror, a green snake wrapped around a sunflower. L and Brett paint a mural in M and Tony’s cabin with a snake wrapped around a tree trunk at its centrepiece. - And M. overhears Brett and L. talking, ostensibly about the Eve in their painting but she feels about her: Let’s give her a moustache, the castrating bitch!’ while Brett shrieked with laughter. ‘Cause of all the trouble,’ he said, blotting the figure’s upper lip with thick black strokes. ‘And let’s give her a nice fat little belly,’ Brett cried. While Mabel Dodge also overheard DH Lawrence (Lorenzo) and Dorothy Brett while they were painting a mural of the Garden of Eden say: "Here's Eve—the bitch," Brett said, viciously, "cause of all the trouble. Here, let's give her a good fat tummy." And Lorenzo answered, responsively: "Yes, the dirty little bitch with her sly, wistful tricks." - And as spotted by my Goodreads friend Debra. From Second Place: "Oh Tony, I’m sorry to have said such terrible things. I know how good you are to me and I don’t want ever to hurt you. It’s just that sometimes I need to talk in order to feel real, and I wish you would talk to me." He was silent, lying on his back in the darkness and staring up at the ceiling. Then he said: "I feel like my heart is talking to you all the time." Based on a parallel conversation in Lorenzo in Taos: "I didn’t mean to hurt you, Tony. But it’s so hard for me, sometimes, when you don’t talk to me for days." "It seems to me my heart is talking to you all the time,” he said. It was. It was. I knew it. How ruthless we are when we live on the surface of life! Some more courtesy of Gumble's Yard: LIT - when she first meets Lorenzo/Lawrence "I died inside and became speechless, Tony is never any help at such a moment, and he just stood there" : Second Place - when she first meets L "I was so wrong footed .... Tony is never any help in that kind of situation - he just stands there and says nothing ... I became blank inside" LIT - immediately afterwards "I made out, in the twinkling of an eye, that Frieda immediately saw Tony and me sexually, visualising our relationship" Second Place - immediately afterwards "I saw that she [Brett] was imagining me and Tony together sexually" LIT - Lorenzo when he arrives at Taos "It's like one of those nasty temples in India": Second Place - Brett getting to the Second Place "It's a cabin in the woods, straight out of a horror story" LIT - Lawrence says to Mabel "You have gone a long way but I have gone longer": Second Place: L says to M "You have gone far but I have gone further" LIT - has "Mother Hubbards" for a critique by Lorenzo/Lawrence of shapeless dresses (in this case worn by Mabel ): in Second Place its Brett using the same term LIT – “I wrote a parody about [Lorenzo] and sent it to Walter Lippemann, who saw I was hurt and replied “It’s your own fault. Don’t you know you can’t make a pet out of a snake” Second Place – when Arthur persuades M she cannot look after L post-stroke “You can’t expect to keep a snake as a pet” LIT – “One morning when I was lacing my shoe, I lost consciousness and remained away from myself for twenty-four hours” Second Place “one day when I was lacing my shoe I fainted and remembered nothing of what had happened for the next twenty four hours” LIT – we find that despite Brett’s father keeping a racing stable – he never let his daughters learn to ride. Second Place – despite Brett’s father being a famous golf player he never teaches her to play LIT – Tony and Lorenzo have an argument after Tony shoots a porcupine – partly for food and partly as they are destroying his trees. Lorenzo has a “proprietary” attitude – he will not permit shooting in his vicinity and considers anything around him as belonging to him. Second Place – an almost identical scene plays out with a deer – with L having a “conception of property” LIT – a character Clarence decides he is destined to be an author, wears a red velvet coat and arranges himself in a room with a typewriter and proceeds to write. Second Place – a longer version of this scene plays out with Kurt (and a black velvet housecoat) LIT – Tony bellows “Come back here” at Mabel : Second Place – the exact same happens LIT – Clarence wants Mabel that Lorenzo is “determined to kill you”: Second Place: Kurt tells M that L “intends to destroy you” But is L. DH Lawrence or Lovis Covinth or Marsden Hartley? But as an additional layer, L. as an artist is based not on DH Lawrence but on a combination of the artists: - Lovis Covinth, whose work Cusk described in this 2019 lecture: https://vanderleeuwlezing.nl/sites/de... (source: https://www.newstatesman.com/rachel-c...) and - Marsden Hartley, who was also featured in Cusk's novel Transit as per this extract: https://www.vice.com/en/article/xdw3d... (source: Goodreader But_I_Thought_) and who also painted the desert at Taos (http://www.artnet.com/artists/marsden...). That said the novel's very last words - from L, written to M. from the Paris hotel where he is to die "This is a bad place", are from one of DH Lawrence's last ever writings, a letter to Maria Huxley in 1930, from the French sanitorium where he lay dying, "This is not a good place." High-class pseudo-philosophical hocus-pocus? As for the book itself, well high-class pseudo-philosophical hocus-pocus would be very harsh, as it has some deep psychological insights, although at times (more my failing) I wasn’t sure I grasped the logic of the sentiments being expressed. Two striking passages on artists and people which certainly needed a re-read: One has to serve out one’s changes moderately, like strong wine. I had very little awareness of such things in my existence before Tony: I had no idea at all why things turned out the way they did, why I felt gorged with sensation at one minute and starved of it the next, where my loneliness or joy came from, which choices were beneficial and which deleterious to my health and happiness, why I did things I didn’t want to do and couldn’t do what I wanted. Least of all did I understand what freedom was and how I could attain it. I thought it was a mere unbuttoning, a release, where in fact– as you know well– it is the dividend yielded by an unrelenting obedience to and mastery of the laws of creation. The rigorously trained fingers of the concert pianist are freer than the enslaved heart of the music-lover can ever be. I suppose this explains why great artists can be such dreadful and disappointing people. Life rarely offers sufficient time or opportunity to be free in more than one way. and Painting people, he said eventually, was an act of both scrutiny and idolatry in which– for him, at least– the coldness of separation had to be maintained at all costs. For this reason he had always been especially disturbed by artists who painted their children. When people fall in love, he said, they experience this coldness as the greatest frisson of all, the fascination of a subject that can still be seen as distinct from oneself. The more familiar the loved one becomes, the less that frisson can be obtained. Worship, in other words, comes before knowledge, and in life this represents the complete initial loss or abandonment of objectivity, followed by a good long dose of reality while the truth is revealed. A portrait is more like an act of promiscuity, he said, in which coldness and desire coexist to the end, and it requires a certain hard-heartedness, which was why he had thought it was the right direction for him to take at this moment. Whatever promiscuity he had indulged in in his younger years, he had been fooling himself, because the hardening of his heart with age was of a different magnitude. The quality that attracted him now was unavailability, the deep moral unavailability of certain people, so that to have them was in effect to steal them and violate– or at least experience– their untouchability. The verdict But this is ultimately a fascinating read, a departure from the Faye trilogy, but no less successful and, as Cusk says in her afterword, a tribute to Mabel Dodge Luhan’s spirit, and, in my view, a wonderfully creative one. Recommended. 4.5 stars and a strong prize contender. Thanks to the publisher via Netgalley for the ARC.

This is one of the standout works of the year. On the surface, Second Place takes the form of a letter written by a woman called M to an unknown character, Jeffers, about an artist called L who stays in M’s guest cottage. The story is reminiscent of Mabel Lujan’s Lorenzo in Taos, which Cusk acknowledges in a postscript. Through this form, Cusk deftly explores gender roles, aging, family dynamics, art, what it means to be an artist, and other themes. I thought this was excellent.

I finished this book a few days ago and I am still thinking about it. It is somewhat incoherent work in a good sense of the word. One cannot tightly connect the dots. And it opens itself to a wide range of interpretations. And that is a good thing - anyone can take away something tailored to the individual aspirations. However a few aspects are more certain. She took someone’s else work. She used it as a vessel. By that, she freed herself from worrying about the usual suspects such as the plot or characters. Moreover, she freed herself even from choosing a particular style. The novel is written in the form of a long letter. I have not checked the source of her inspiration, but the way how tightly she controls the style tells me it was borrowed as well from there. I am surprised I have not seen a review yet written as the pastiche and starting: “The thing is, Jeffers, I have not been interested in the plot and other attributes of a classical novel for a while. I’ve explained all of this when I was writing my previous book (the Trilogy). There, Jeffers, I tried to annihilate such things like the plot, narrator’s voice and a setting. And now, Jeffers, maybe for the first time, I try not to spend time thinking of a style; that is, Jeffers, if it is out there already, created by someone else and ready to be used.” I promise not to continue all my review in that manner… So, she took all of this “oven ready”. And on these basis, she has created a profound metaphysical inquiry. She populated this old story with a new meaning making her heroine question “what is real?”. Is there something sublime we do not usually have an access to? This inquiry has become the main purpose of her work. This question is a very old one. But it is often the torturing one, especially for those with an artistic gift. Because no artistic vision comes without cost. And it is even more true if you are a woman. When I was reading this story it was pretty clear to me that it is a Faustian tale with some feminist connotations. “The Devil” has appeared to M (the main character’s name) at least three times in different disguises. First, she discovers for herself the works of L, an artist in the pinnacle of his fame. Something in those works inspires her to change her life radically by leaving her family and starting a new search. She reflects later on that period: “I viewed myself in the cruellest light. Never have I yearned more to be capable of creating something than at that time. It felt as though only that – to express or reflect some aspect of existence – would atone for the awful knowledge I seemed to have acquired. I had lost the blind belief in events and the immersion in my own being that I realised had made existence bearable up to that point. This loss seemed to me to constitute nothing less than the gain of perceptual authority” This loss of belief in exchange for the knowledge is very close to the pact which artists make with the Devil in the tales about Faust. The loss is exchanged for that thing she called here “perceptual authority”, on in other words, the gift to see something the others cannot and to be able to reveal it. It reminded me of the phrase from Goethe which I found puzzling initially, but which might be understood nevertheless in its powerful contradiction. On the question who he was Mephistopheles answered: "I am part of that force which eternally wills evil and eternally creates good.” Many acts of pure creation often are based on the destruction of something important and previously existing . (view spoiler) I am not sure Cusk was thinking any of this while writing this book. I do not know whether she wanted to deliver a predetermined message or simply used the book as vehicle to talk about art, the limitations of its creators as well as her usual themes of difficult relationships, divorce and motherhood. All the above is just my interpretation of this work. But: The truth lies not in any claim to reality, but in the place where what is real moves beyond our interpretation of it. True art means seeking to capture the unreal. And I admire her sentences, sometimes elliptic, but always very accomplished.

New favorite author. Sometimes it's not just about the plot, but about engaging with the writer's ideas. I found myself staring at the pages, thinking about the world, about myself. While there is a plot, it is just the canvas for exploring themes like art and motherhood. It is a book u read for the writing. Here is a passage I liked. "Looking across the lake is like looking through a window at what I want, but on the other side. It is like an image in my mind, which is also the place where I imagine other lives than my own, different kinds of existence, different versions of myself. I can see the other side of the lake, but I cannot reach it; the desire to reach it is what keeps me looking. The idea of crossing over is more powerful than the reality would be, I know. But still I dream of it: of walking around the lake and climbing the hill to see what lies beyond, or simply of swimming across to the other side, leaving everything behind. Sometimes it seems to me that the desire to cross over is the desire to die, to escape the world and enter a new and different one. But other times I think it is the opposite: the desire to live more fully, to have more experiences, to feel more deeply." Highly recommed it.

the more i read it the more reasons i have to believe that my favorite genre of books lately is the woman in crisis! the haphazard internal monologue! women who know exactly what they’re being deprived of! post biological femininity! female dissatisfaction! woman vs void!—“not to have been born in a woman’s body was a piece of luck in the first place: he couldn’t see his own freedom because he couldn’t conceive of how elementally it might have been denied him. to beg was a freedom in itself—it implied at least an equality with the state of need. my own experiences of loss, i said, had merely served to show me the pitilessness of nature. the wounded don’t survive in nature: a woman could never throw herself on fate and expect to come out of it intact. she has to connive at her own survival...” clearly i had a blast reading this. cusk is bafflingly excellent and i cannot wait to read not only her past work but also what her move to france yields :-)

Rachel Cusk got inspiration for this fable-like novel from a real situation, but it's better not to know more than that. Her writing is eerily haunting, and her style, elliptical, but the story flows smoothly and the characters are sometimes charming sometimes exasperating. As with most of her work, I find I can't put it down, but she respects her readers and leaves a lot up to them.

I think there's a great chance that Second Place will actually come in first place for the Booker prize. Cusk manages to incorporate many insightful philosophical musings into a book that I found hard to put down. Although the plot was fairly straightforward, there was one scene that I will never forget. And another that moved me to tears. Cusk illuminates the pitfalls of insecurity like no writer I have read before. . .and is there a more universal feeling? This book is my first exposure to Cusk, but it definitely won't be the last.

In the afterword to her most recent novel, Second Place, Rachel Cusk states she was inspired by Mabel Dodge Luhan’s 1932 memoir of the time D. H. Lawrence stayed with her in Taos, New Mexico. Unlike in Luhan’s memoir, the visitor in Cusk’s novel is an artist, not an author. Second Place is in the form of an extended monologue. The first-person narrator is identified as M. She addresses the monologue to her friend, Jeffers, telling him about the time L, the artist, visited her and her husband in their home on the marshes. The title refers to the second home they constructed as a guest house for visiting artists to work unencumbered by the outside world. It also refers to M’s self-identification as someone who is, at best, second place and subordinate. M is a conflicted, tortured soul plagued with questions about her identity as a woman, her skills at parenting, her need for recognition, and her role in her marriage. She is not a particularly likeable character. She invites the celebrated artist L to stay in her home because she feels connected to him through his paintings. She wants to see her marshes through his eyes. But above all, she wants him to paint her, as if by seeing her he will, somehow, endow her with self-worth. When L eventually shows up, he recognizes her intensity and need for attention. He reacts by distancing himself from her. M’s frustration grows and eventually comes to a head. This brief summary might lead one to believe this is a lengthy, boring monologue where very little happens. Nothing could be further from the truth. Although M is not particularly likeable, her words are hypnotic and fascinating. While wallowing in self-examination and self-doubt, she philosophizes about the meaning of freedom, the role gender plays in our identity formation, selfhood, power dynamics, positions of privilege, marginalization, the nature of parenting, marriage, the role of art in society and its relationship to life, and the character of the artist. She contrasts her approach to life with that of her steadfast husband, Tony. She shares her feelings toward her daughter and how parenting her now adult child is fraught with tension. Cusk peppers her sentences with lyrical, breathtaking descriptions, most notably of the landscape. She sustains interest through the potency of her pronouncements and deliberations. Almost every other sentence invites contemplation. This is a compelling work in which words need to be savored, read, and re-read for their piercing insights about life, relationships, and identity. Highly recommended. My book reviews are also available at www.tamaraaghajaffar.com

Absolutely phenomenal. Nothing hits like a Cusk. This is a beautifully retold recollection in first person of a spring and summer in which a famed artist comes to stay at the property of our unnamed female narrator. Her pursuit of him and his company is a product of her relentless desire to be free of responsibility and exercise that freedom to explore truth the way that his paintings do. Alas, she never reaches this transcendent 'second place' of enlightenment because she is forever tied to her responsibilities as a woman and mother. Our narrator doesn't have the luxury to paint what she sees. She must take what is and create something new, safer, and better for the next generation. This hypnotic tale of male privilege has a beautiful, hopeful ending that reinforces the power of love and narrative despite the temptation of freedom. I love you, Rachel. I'll be giving copies of this to all my friends this summer. Favorite read of the year so far.

Booker Prize Longlist (8/13) Sunjeev Sahota wrote the wonderful refugee novel THE YEAR OF THE RUNAWAYS, a intricate and emotional journey that was shortlisted for the Booker Prize (unlucky to have arrived the same year as A BRIEF HISTORY OF SEVEN KILLINGS and A LITTLE LIFE). Sahota follows up with a much shorter but just as emotional novel, CHINA ROOM. This has been strong year of novels choosen by the Booker jury, but this is the first one I have deeply loved, entranced by the beautiful prose, the perfectly paced plot and the devastating conclusion. The plot is divided in time and perspective. The first that of Mehar, a Punjab woman chosen as wife to a man she does not know, the man's mother keeping his identity secret from the bride as three brothers decide which of three woman will be their spouse. Confused and tricked, Mehar falls into a triste with the man she believes is her husband but soon discovers is the man's brother. Facing scandal and punishment Mehar and her lover must decide whether their union is lustful or love-filled. Decades later, Mehar's England-raised grandson returns to his family's hometown, trying to kick a heroin addiction. He ends up in the house where Mehar's life turned and confronts the ghosts that still haunt the space and the stories of her fate that continue to linger among the townspeople. Sahota neatly intertwines the threads connecting the past and present, never forcing obvious connections, letting the reader make its mind how the common forces of love and friendship shape the protagonists. He manages to confront heavy themes of arranged marriage and largely gendered injustices through a tragic love story. His prose is delicate, beautiful and his plotting is spectacular, managing to foreshadow the inevitable without lessening the reader's desire to find out what will happen. A certain shortlister if it is up to me.

“ The China Room “ is a hypnotic novel that slowly draws us into a quest for personal freedom and self realization.In a chronicle separated by seventy years, we piece together the stories of two teenagers, linked by family, who attempt to take control of their lives.Their histories do not form a sweeping saga.Instead, a mosaic slowly emerges, piece by piece, as they struggle to cope with the strictures of powerlessness and trauma. The novel is carried forward from two points of view.An unnamed narrator retrospectively looks back on his experiences as an eighteen year old in 1999.Raised in a working class white British town, he has felt the isolating effects of the racism directed at his Indian family.The young man has displaced his alienation by turning inward and has succumbed to the grip of heroin addiction.In anticipation of entering university in the fall, he decides to combat his demons by spending the summer at his uncle’s farm in rural Punjab.He hopes to reconnect with his roots and refocus his life. The narrator’s story is intertwined with the story of his great grandmother Mehar.In 1929, she is a teenaged bride in an arranged marriage on the same farm.She and two other teenaged girls are married to three brothers.They are expected to produce male heirs and perform backbreaking chores.They are veiled, isolated and not allowed to know which brother is their husband.Their lives are controlled by a domineering mother in law, Mai.She arranges their sexual assignations in a small cramped room that is the repository of a long ago family dowry. Mai underscores her absolute power over the girls by withholding the identity of the husbands and limiting their physical and social interactions.Mehar, though,is inquisitive and determined. She clandestinely tries to ferret out the truths that Mai does not want her to know.Mehar’s desires ultimately intersect with the harshness of her existence and set her on a path of discovery and danger. The struggles of these two teenagers are separated by generations but linked by familial connection and their varied reactions to powerlessness and alienation. Told in alternating sections, they create a tapestry of emotional yearning, repression and self discovery. The narrative seeps into our pores, causing us to reflect on the effects of generational trauma and overcoming pain.We become intimate with both young people and are saddened by their hardships and uplifted by their resilience. This beautifully constructed novel exposes us to pain while offering an affirmation of the human spirit.

China Room is set in India and covers the lives of two family members, Mehar who aged 15 in 1929 becomes a bride to one of three brothers and the other, her great grandson, an unnamed man from England, the son of an immigrant, who aged 18 in 1999 travels to India to clean himself up and get his life back together. Mehar, along with her now two "sisters" dont know which of the three brothers are their husbands such is their oppression. With a mother in law who rules the home with an iron fist the girls days are made up of cleaning and cooking and looking after the house and the needs of their husbands. Our unnamed man lives in a small town in England where people with brown skin are very uncommon and he and his family have faced racism and abuse all their lives. Looking for an escape he soon finds himself addicted to heroin. His trip to India to visit his relatives is an escape, a chance to try and clean his young life up. When he neglects to take proper care of his cousin while staying with his Uncle and Aunt in India, his Aunt wants him gone from their house. He decides to move to the old farm that he used to play in as a kid on holiday visits. A family property, it is now abandoned and run down but the perfect seclusion for him as he tries to straighten himself out and make sense of his life. It also happens to be the property where his great grandmother Mehar lived as a child bride. This is a beautifully written story, shining a brief light onto two completely different generations of the same family and their struggle with oppression and their fighting spirit and discovery of what true love may be like. Portions of this have almost dreamlike quality while others are quite shocking. All the while the writing is beautiful, the characters jumping off the pages and the landscape of India beautifully described. At a little over 250 pages its just the right length for what it is. I was left wanting for more. Dont get me wrong, the book itself is complete. I just enjoyed the writing so much that I didnt want it to end. Many thanks to the publisher for sending me an ARC.

Quietly intense and utterly heartbreaking, China Room is not to be missed. In 1929 rural Punjab, 15 year old Mehar and two other young ladies are married off to three brothers. The three young ladies work and live in the family "china room" named for the fading wallpaper hung there. They are servants to their husbands, always covered head to toe for modesty and never getting more than a glimpse of a hand or an ankle during the nights they are summoned to a room for "wifely duties" in hopes of producing a son. Mehar's husband appears gentle and kind and she longs to figure out which one of the three men she has married, occasionally catching sight of them through the slats in the window of the china room. A glimpse may confirm her belief as to which one is her husband, leading Mehar on a dangerous path that puts more than one person at risk. Meanwhile, there are stirrings of an independence movement in Punjab away from British rule and violence and emergence of Sikh and Hindu is beginning in the region, adding a layer of uncertainty and foreboding. The novel also occasionally jumps to summer 1999, where a descendent of the family returns to Punjab and the old home. He is suffering withdrawals from heroin addiction and alcoholism. He grew up in England where his family were shopkeepers. There they dealt with racism and violence. Returning to his family ancestral home allows him to reconnect to his culture and lineage, providing him a path forward. The novel is beautifully written and a surprising page turner. Time to take The Year of Runaways off my TBR shelf!!

We follow this family's history through three timelines-- Mehar, a young woman brought up in the Punjab sikh tradition in 1929, and her great-grandson at the age of 18 in 1999, battling addiction while inhabiting the room where Mehar lived out her days. The third line, is amorphous, but brings the other two together, 20 years further on, rendering the original two as a memory piece. At first, I was not taken with the historical side of the story, but as the characters became more and more fleshed out and the customs of the Punjab area were developed, the book got its hooks into me, earning it a 5-star rating.

What. A. Book. No spoilers: Set in India, a dual narrative between 1920s and 1990s. In 1920s, three women are married to three brothers in a single ceremony, and due to oppressive gender roles and rules, aren't allowed to speak to their husbands, which means they do not know which of the brothers each is married to. In 1999, the great-grandson of one of these women returns to India from Britain for one summer hoping to recover from his drug addiction, and to reconnect with the country he's of but knows nothing about. About love, oppression and lives lived small cowing to arbitrary rules. A fairly short novel but it packs an incredible amount. While there's a trend to focus on debut novels at the moment, nothing quite beats a writer who's mastered their craft - this being Sahota's third novel (one of which was shortlisted for a Booker and won a heap of other awards) - the writing is beautiful, clear, free of any frills, it cuts to the bone of the matter precisely and effortlessly. One of those rare books where, once you finish it, you're in a daze, surprised the world around you is still the same, oblivious of what's just happened, of the intensity of what you've just lived through.

Very interesting story. Enjoyed it more than I thought I would. Will keep this author on my list to watch out for. When you read the title and see China one automatically thinks this will be about Asia. Wrong. Story is told POV from two individuals, Maher (1929) and a young man (1990's if I remember correctly), who's name was never reviled (or not that I recall) in India. Once his identity was revealed I was very very surprised and was glad of the ending, although I would have loved to have had his mother POV or even Maher as she got older. There are a few more surprises that really surprised me. The main characters were exceptionally well developed. I would not believe that I would feel sorry for a man but because he was a victim of society and traditions. Of course the story must have a villain and I believe that honor goes to the boys mother, Mai. Well to me she was the villain in the story, some might disagree and say Saurj and Maher were.

Beautifully written and such a heartbreaking story, especially considering that it was based on the author’s family history. I loved learning about the culture and politics of 1929 Punjab. BOTM Add-On July 2021

CN. Arranged Marriages, 'Domestic' Slavery, Imprisonment, and Marital Abuse, Addiction (Heroin), Racism This was another Audible sale punt that I might never have otherwise picked up, but one I am so very glad I did! China Room is a beautifully told tale of generational trauma across multiple generations (great grandmother and great grandson) and continents (Punjab in South Asia and Britain) following the intertwined narratives of two relatives leading vastly different lives, both complicated by oppression, denigration, and a loss of self/ freedom. While one deals with the violent misogyny, including the abuse and tantamount slavery of being a Punjabi woman in 1929, the other struggles with the racism, othering, and, most tragically, the effect this is having on his father, falling through depression into heroin addiction. Both narratives are filled with pain, longing, and dreams of a better, more free and love-filled lives with the weight of oppressive culture and colonialism casting bleak shadows over their lives. There are moments of joy and hope, but Sahota never sugar coats the pain and trauma in this disparate, but tragically connected lives. The thing that struck me most powerfully about this novel is the suffocating space taken up by so many of the things causing the pain, suffering, and trauma. It is not as if the book shies away from anything, but the point of harm is so personal and individual that a picture of everything not said explicitly is painted in stark negative space, forever looming over everything. The balance and oppressive force of aspects so clear, but rarely directly expressed is truly astounding and powerful for the contrast. This is absolutely a lot to read in such a small book, but it is incredibly important and rendered with sublime skill and care.

The Promise is hard and dark and in Damon Galgut there is no trace of sentimentality. Death in the family… Funeral rites… The last journey… And as they drive away, Rachel’s body is already being lifted into its final container and the lid screwed down. For ever. The shomer is in attendance and when the other assistants have gone he continues to sit in his lonely chair against the wall, chanting the tehillim. For the dead must have company all the way to the end. The dead depart and the living are left behind… The living with their sympathies and enmities… Their loves and hates… Their expectations and troubles… Their needs and pleasures… The need to fuck like bonobos is uppermost these days and he certainly came here today for no noble reason. Only one thing on my mind since hearing about Ma, funny that, just how it works, Eros fighting Thanatos, except you don’t think about sex, you suffer it. A scratchy, hungry thing going on in the basement. Torment of the damned, the fire that never goes out. But still, despite bodily appetites, he feels that he’s chasing some emotion he can’t quite name. Might even be love, though that would surprise him. Water keeps passing under the bridge, the world changes but the deaths in the family always repeat. And the living forget their promises given to the dead.

Damon Galgut's brilliant 2014 novel “Arctic Summer” was a fictional reimagining of the life of EM Forster which describes his experiences after the publication of his novel “Howard's End”. Forster's classic book about who will inherit a house serves as the structure for Galgut's new novel “The Promise”, but it's set in South Africa in the years immediately before and after Apartheid. It follows the experiences of a relatively-privileged white family who own a small farm and their fates over time. An annexe to their property is inhabited by Salome, a black maid who has worked for the family for many years and the novel begins with matriarch Rachel on her deathbed requesting that the deed to this property be given this woman who has served her so faithfully. Although her husband Manie promises to fulfil her wish, the transfer of ownership to Salome is delayed year after year after year. The self-consumed and selfish family members are so concerned with their own dramas that fulfilling this bequest always seems tediously inconvenient or perhaps it's a power they are unwilling to relinquish. But youngest daughter Amor witnessed the promise being made and persistently reminds her family it should be honoured (much to their exasperation.) Just as Forster's novel symbolically asked who will inherit England, Galgut's story asks who will inherit South Africa but I think his query is much more complicated than that simple concept sounds. The striking thing about how this novel is written is its impressively fluid style which artfully weaves in and out of certain perspectives, briskly navigates through different scenes and frequently switches point of view. At first this felt almost disorientating to me as transitions in focus are made so rapidly it sometimes requires careful attention to follow the narrative, but it soon became mesmerising as I felt caught in the flow of time and Galgut's gorgeously poetic language. However, the apparent freedom of this narrative to roam wherever it wishes (even into the perspective of the dead) is deceptive. As the story progresses, it becomes apparent that in following the fates of different members of the Swart family we're also tragically locked into the white gaze from which they cannot escape. Their prejudiced views saturate the sensibility of this novel. Their assumed superiority and odious casual racism appears with wincing regularity. For example, a typical paranoid statement made about black servants is that “You have to get rid of them before they start to scheme.” If these racist attitudes come to feel exasperating and if the reader longs to instead get Salome's perspective I think that's fully intentional. It's something the Swart family with their myopic view of the world never considers and so the reader is similarly denied access except for brief glimpses such as the family's black driver Lexington who observes with exasperation: “It is not always possible to please two white people simultaneously.” As such, we come to understand the real crisis in a country where legalized segregation may have ended but the tragic divide between two groups of people remains. Read my full review of The Promise by Damon Galgut on LonesomeReader I've also made a video discussing my thoughts on the novel here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x3MRnH2g5Y4

The Promise chronicles the demise over several decades of the Swart family, white South Africans who are descendants of the Voortrekkers. The youngest daughter, Amor, witnesses her father’s promise to bequeath a small homestead to the Black family who lives on the Swarts’ land. The promise goes unfulfilled for decades and by the end it is worthless. Although this is a book almost entirely voiced by white characters, the final scenes reveal the narrowness of their view. Lukas’s powerful words at the end correctly reframe the narrative to show the lie on which the promise is made in the first place.

This novel was a first-rate reading experience. Damon Galgut accomplished several things I have come to demand as a picky reader. First of all, it’s skillfully written. Any book that’s going to achieve five star status absolutely has to meet this requirement! Beyond that, there’s a compelling plot, rather epic though not dragged out. The author manages to effectively do this with some decent leaps in time, without missing his mark when landing in the next decade or so. Then there’s the excellent characterization. There is no danger of mixing up one character with another; each one stands vivid in my mind well after finishing. The majority of them are not entirely likeable. In fact, they are often selfish and sometimes cruel. No matter – I relished reading about each and every one of them! Last but not least – perhaps the cherry on top – was the funny, often mocking, omniscient narrator. This can make or break a book for me. Here, the narrator’s voice absolutely won me over. He (or she?!) addresses anything and everything, but most frequently, the reader. “A curious scene, this low-key festivity just a day after Ma has died, but on the other hand people have to eat, life goes on. They’ll be drinking and making bawdy jokes soon after you go too.” The novel opens with the death of Ma, mother of Anton, Astrid and Amor, and wife to Manie Swart. The Swarts have been summoned back to the homestead in South Africa. Just prior to this event, Amor, the youngest, overheard a conversation between Ma and Pa. A promise was made between a husband and a wife. Salome, the Black woman who has served as housekeeper and caregiver to the family for years, lives in a small house on a piece of land owned by the family. Manie promises he will fulfill Ma’s wish to give the house to Salome. This promise will be the thread that weaves its way throughout the entirety of the novel. Galgut goes further with this. He manages to liken this personal promise to the politics of a nation in turmoil. Quite remarkably, he does this without ever getting heavy handed. Family members range from being entirely against fulfilling this promise (and for that matter, when the book begins, it’s not even a legal possibility), to being rather wishy-washy about it, to seemingly supporting it wholeheartedly. Isn’t it often the case when we uphold (with what we believe to be earnest support) an idea yet still fail to follow through? Are good intentions enough? Perhaps they just make us feel more comfortable about ourselves. “The question of the Lombard place and her mother’s last wish and her father’s promise, really several questions although they feel like only one, has followed her around the world, bothering her at particular moments like a stranger importuning her in the street, plucking at her sleeve, crying out. Attend to me! And she knows that she must, one day she will have to answer, but why should one day be today?” This reminded me of a quote by Mark Twain: “Never put off till tomorrow, what you can do the day after tomorrow.” I’m sure our narrator would appreciate the sarcasm in that one. The house and the piece of land in question aren’t even all that noteworthy. In fact, Galgut never depicts the landscape in a sentimental fashion, even through his characters. Rather than beauty, one imagines something stark, desolate, and often threatening. Yet it belongs to the Swarts! No one can take that away from them, no matter how fruitless the plot of land really is. “Useless ground, full of stones, you can do nothing with it. But it belongs to our family, nobody else, and there’s power in that.” The ending really tied it all together for me – I found it to be brilliant! Regardless of our power, our status, our color, our gender or any of that nonsense which we think sets “us” apart from the “other”, we are really all on the same plane, aren’t we? Nature and the universe do not distinguish us in this way. What makes us so extraordinary that we should set ourselves above another? I can still hear that subtle, refined snicker of Galgut’s narrator in my ear. Oh, and did I say this was dark? Yeah, it is. I loved it. “But in the meantime there is the body, the horrible meaty fact of it, the thing that reminds everyone… that one day they shall lie there too… emptied out of everything, merely a form, unable even to look at itself. And the mind recoils from its absence, cannot think of itself not thinking, the coldest of voids.”

One of the most powerful Booker winners I’ve ever read Damon Galgut’s absorbing novel about the decline and fall of a white South African family is a literary masterpiece. It’s both a tragicomic family portrait and an allegory about the inhumane treatment of Blacks during and after apartheid. The Swarts are an ordinary white family living on a smallholding outside Pretoria in 1986. The title refers to a promise Afrikaner Manie made to his Jewish wife Rachel (overheard by their younger daughter, Amor) that the Black family maid, Salome, would inherit the tiny house she currently lives in. When Rachel dies, Amor reminds her father of this promise, but he doesn’t remember it and shoos her away. The four chapters are spaced about a decade apart, and each one is named after a character who dies. During each section, the subject of Salome’s inheritance is ignored or passed on or put off. Meanwhile, characters meet their grim reapers, sometimes in a violent fashion. Is this biblical justice for an unfulfilled promise? Karma? Apart from its satisfying structure and the efficient way Galgut incorporates the passing of time and the changing political landscape, the novel’s most memorable feature is its tone and narrative point of view. Galgut employs a third-person omniscient narrator who flits from character to character, sometimes even giving us the point of view of a bird or insect or…. corpse. The narrator can also be terribly droll, chastising us for our assumptions along the way. At first I thought this technique – Galgut’s style has drawn deserving comparisons to both Virginia Woolf and William Faulkner – would wear thin after a while. But it’s generous and expansive in its look at humanity, with all its vanities and faults (and its occasional virtues) on display. An unforgettable novel.

It is 1980s South Africa, on a farm near Pretoria, the Swart family are grieving over the loss of their mother. Ma, however, has thrown a curveball at those left behind by returning to her original Jewish faith, this, in a fundamentally Christian family. The funeral is tense – pitting it mildly. Ma has another deathbed request (The Promise), that is, for the family to give the small house on their property to their housekeeper Salome, who has faithfully served the family for many years. The remaining members of the family – Pa, and the three kids, Astrid, Anton, and Amor wrestle with this over the next four decades.. Nothing joins a man to the earth more completely than an umbilical arc of hot yellow urine. For a short while there is only that single sensation of letting go, until it’s time to shake off the drops Oh yes, and don’t we know it gentlemen? Who said, us blokes 'aren’t spiritual'? With the possible exception of Amor, the surviving members are all a dislikable bunch, particularly Anton. There is also a supporting cast the author presents in an unflattering light. They are a motley lot. Pa’s sister is a dislikable piece of work. Amor (the nice-ish one) is the only family member who wants the family to honour the promise of house and land to Salome. This is a running theme throughout. “And you still don’t understand. It’s not yours to give. It already belongs to us. This house, but also the house where you live, and the land it’s standing on. Ours!” The issue of Terra Nullius, exploited by colonialists everywhere. This is a sprawling family saga set in a politically intense South Africa from the 1980s to almost 2020. The mood is not bright, it is all a bit of heavy graft. The narrator is unusual, sometimes he/she would go off on a chatty tangent or express an unusually judgemental opinion of a character – you would think you were sitting having a coffee with this unnamed person. At times this third person narrator, seemed like a first-person narrator, he/she was that emotionally involved – I hope that makes sense. This is clever writing; it is immersive and a real page turner. My favourite type of book – a handful of people, a family, stuffing things up, arguing with each other and essentially making life a lot harder than it should be. There are also touches of magical realism thrown in here and there, not a lot – if you blink you will miss it. There are also moments of humour – one or two laugh out loud moments. Funerals, done badly can often be hilarious I think. Some of the supporting characters, often religious, are almost satirical. ”I want them to open the coffin”. “But why?” “I want to be sure it’s my brother inside”. “Of course, it’s your brother inside, he cries, his own hysteria suddenly matching hers. Whose brother would it be?” I really enjoyed this. 5 Stars (so much for 2024 being the year of stingy ratings)

Now the winner of the 2021 Booker Prize Earlier this year, I made the case in support of book awards saying that had it not been for the Booker, I probably would not have heard of Bernardine Evaristo or Girl, Woman, Other. Yes, I was late in reading that book, but I absolutely loved it. I haven't read last year's winner yet, (late again) but now with Booker season almost at its end, I can boast that I've been much more invested this time around. Damon Galgut is now another author the Booker prize has introduced me to and along with him, his masterful book, The Promise. It's apartheid-era South Africa, and under law, Black people are not allowed to own property in white areas. Before Rachel dies (she's the matriarch of the Swart household), she makes her husband Manie promise that Salome (the Swarts’ domestic servant) will receive full ownership of the house where Salome lives with her family. The promise, of course, is buried with Rachel only to be unearthed by Amor (the youngest of the Swart family) in subsequent years. At 13, Amor overheard the conversation where her father promises her mother that the house will go to Salome. Each section of the novel is dedicated to the death of another family member, basically showing us what that promise means to each of them. As such, these sections are rather lengthy. I did not mind. Galgut's writing is unusual. With a somewhat non-linear plot, the narrative voice flows through consciousness, moving from character to character, (much like a film camera) sometimes alighting on characters completely unrelated to the story at hand- a homeless man outside of a church, a pack of jackals, even a ghost. An omniscient narrator, if you will. The effect is dizzying. Still, every page is controlled by Galgut; there isn't a word out of place. This is a writer who knows exactly what they are doing, and I was more than impressed. It's a book of scope and ambition, one more than deserving of its place on the Booker shortlist and, of course, its win. With that being said, it won't be a book that everyone will like or even appreciate, and that's quite fine. I'm not too familiar with South African writers or books on apartheid, (I've yet to read Nadine Gordimer's The Conservationist even though I've had a copy for over 10 years) so I'm certainly not the best person to judge this book within the context of a much wider canon. I will say, though, the rave reviews are justified. This is a book that deserves to be praised, and more importantly, widely read.

As much as I’d love this novel to follow the path of the previous two Booker Prize winners and become a worldwide bestseller, I don’t think that’s going to happen. Paradoxically, I believe, its strengths are bound to also become its weaknesses. For some readers, the snarky narrator is going to become a very annoying one. For those same readers and a few more, the dark undercurrent beneath the story’s surface is probably going to become too terrifying to bare. The fact that it’s so big in scope is going to raise a lot of complaints about the characterisation. And also, still in the topic of characterisation, there’s no one in particular to root for in it. All the characters are broken. And they all live in a broken (and violent) society where no one is completely safe from harm (sounds familiar?). The total lack of quotation marks and the sweeping nature of the narration, which I didn’t have any problem with, is also going to become a big cause of distress to a lot of people. Now, and I mean at this point in time, I can’t say I know a lot about what’s going on with people or the world in general, but one thing I do know is great literature when I see it. And this, my friends, this is great literature. This is something that could’ve only been penned by a master storyteller. Period. And in case you’re wondering why I am mentioning all these possible “problems”, let me tell you that I just want to make sure that it’s clear to everyone that, like everything else in my life, these five stars are a matter of love. Because when I love something or someone the way I already love this stunning work of art, nothing else is going to matter but the fact that it all became part of me from the moment it got under my skin.

I've only read a couple of books from the Booker Prize long list so far, and already I can see this winning. It's layered, clever, uncomfortable, incredibly accomplished in its writing, subtle in its message - although it's also clearly there, and still a great story. There are four parts to it, each of them detailing a death in a white South African family. In the first - Ma - we meet the family, made up of the surviving husband, three children, aunt, uncle and various others. The youngest child hears her father promise her dying mother that he will give Salome, the family's black maid, her house. This is the titular promise, but also of course a way of looking at race in South Africa and what has been promised, and who should even be allowed to promise something, when it might not have been theirs in the first place. In terms of the writing, Galgut plays fast and loose with time and point of view - moving locations and times almost within a sentence, and roaming from third person into second and back again, making it feel like the reader is part of this often racist and troubled family. I kept trying to watch to see how he did it, but then finding myself swept up in the story and characters. Tremendous.

A casual, chatty hop skip jumpy style that captivated me (but I can easily imagine would aggravate others) from page one, full of sardonic asides such as Yes, here it comes, the rain, like some cheap redemptive symbol in a story Or, describing a priest – Timothy Batty is in his sixties and has been in this game, beg your pardon, this calling since he was a young man. He gives us the audience a few sly digs If Salome’s home hasn’t been mentioned before it’s because you have not asked, you didn’t care to know. And he not so much breaks the fourth wall as climbs through it to tease the reader His long dark body is ridged with muscle, a pink scar zigzags across his back. Some private history there, don’t know him well enough to ask. Or when he’s telling us about a down and out guy who occupies a couple of pages – Can’t prove it to you, but he once had a high-paying job Which reminds me that every time an author describes a character as “a man in his late thirties” or “a woman of middling years” I want to say wait, you invented these people, you should know exactly how old they are! Stop fobbing us off with this vagueness! Do your job! Here he is deliberately goading me - This conversation takes place in the garden behind the church. No, more likely it happens inside the church itself, in one of the pews Ha ha, Damon Galgut, you naughty author! So here we have a wonderful hectic pell-mell slightly deranged narrator, the like of which I only once encountered before, in another favourite novel What I Lived For by Joyce Carol Oates. As you know there are the Bad Bookers (Vernon God Little, The Sellout, The Sense of an Ending, so many others) and the Good Bookers (Troubles, The White Tiger, Sacred Hunger, not enough others) and this one is a Good Booker, in fact a Brilliant Booker. You might say the story is not so much (decline and fall of a white South African middle class family) and the main characters we have met before (arrogant son, narcissist elder daughter, withdrawn younger daughter, faithful family maid) but this just confirms my theory that a great author can take any threadbare old rope and Rumpelstiltskinishly spin it into gold, look at what Shakespeare did to all those tatty old tragedies that no one gave the time of day to. Hugely recommended !

So many brilliant 5 star reviews for this novel...well deserved. I look forward to reading more from this author.

What a tricky little narrator we have. Sometimes omniscient, sometimes a character, sometimes unknown. It corrects the speaker, corrects itself, apologizes. Narrator helps us transition between scenes and time, pushing us right along even if it digresses to another story. The boiling undercurrent of South African life and politics is pervasive throughout. And our Anton, the prodigal son? He happens to be writing a book, albeit incomplete, about “the torments of the human condition. Nothing unusual.” Then just to make me love this more, an ear worm is slipped in, “Here comes the sun, little darling” (thank you very much Mr. Harrison). This is the best Booker nominee/winner/long list/short list I have ever read. In fact, if I read a better book this year, I will be one lucky bookworm.

Damon Galgut is genetically incapable of writing a bad book and he prove it once again with a novel that fully delivers on its promises – entitled, fittingly enough, The Promise. At the core of the novel is a promise overheard by the Swart family’s third and youngest child, Amor, the conscience of a morally corrupt family. At age six, Amor was struck by lightning and lost one of her toes and she exudes a morality that is lost on the others. All she knows is that her dying mother promised Salome, the family’s Black maid, the cabin in which she and has lived in for many years. Of course, under apartheid, Salome cannot possibly legally own the cabin—but this, in Amor’s young eyes, is only a minor impediment to fulfilling her mother’s wishes. Her older brother and sister, Anton and Astrid, have wasted their potential. Physically beautiful, there is rot within each of them as they strive to find contentment and some meaning in life. Both fail miserably. Their father is under the sway of a dominee (also called a pastoor) who wields his power to convince the father to provide land for his church. With wry and dark humor, Damon Galgut skewers the hypocrisy of religion—whether it’s the born-again Jewish mother, the oath-breaking Catholic priest, the pastoor and his manipulations, and the “new age” guru who councils Astrid. About the priest hilariously named Timothy Batty: “…seldom does he feel less fallible than when he stands up here among a grieving thong, the master of God’s ceremonies” The promise is of course also metaphorical for the promise made and broken to the nation of South Africa, and the tragedy of apartheid. Its characters flirt with existential and physical threats and still cannot quite do the right thing. As a result, promising lives are guttered and a Black family becomes ultimately resigned to promises not fulfilled. Damon Galgut is always confidently in control of his story, which will likely be one of my Ten Favorite Books of the Year. A huge thanks to Europa Editions for sending me a copy in exchange for an honest review.

4.5 stars This is a meticulously crafted novel that offers a contemplative exploration of human relationships within the dynamic framework of South Africa's evolving sociopolitical landscape. Galgut's writing is marked by its precision, eschewing excessive adornment to deliver a stark, unvarnished portrayal of his characters and their interactions. The narrative skillfully shifts between different characters' perspectives, offering a multi-layered view of their experiences. The novel's thought-provoking narrative and pacing makes it a worthwhile read for those interested in introspective storytelling. Galgut takes his time to unfold the narrative, allowing the reader to marinate in the subtleties of the characters' experiences. This unhurried approach may not appeal to those seeking a fast-paced, action-packed story, but for those willing to invest in a more contemplative reading experience, it pays off in spades. There's a lot of letting go at the big moment, same way you came into the world you make your exit again, incontinent and howling, but don't tell anybody. Part of the evidence that has to be washed away, to conceal the crime. What crime is that? The crime of death. Nonsense, Fred, there is no crime, you are providing a service, that's all. His late father, also Fred Winkler, who taught him and his brothers this business, being a mortician is a family sort of thing, who would do it otherwise, his father said to him long ago, You have to make them look peaceful. That's what the family wants to see, that their loved one is at peace. Bullshit. What they really want to see is that their loved one is alive. At its core, the novel is an exploration of the promises we make, both to others and ourselves, and how these commitments shape the course of our lives. Galgut's characters are deeply flawed, and he allows their imperfections to shine through, refusing to pass judgment. Instead, he lays bare their vulnerabilities and insecurities, painting a portrait of individuals navigating a complex web of emotions and obligations. The story revolves around the lives of a South African family, particularly focusing on the Swart family. The novel begins with the promise made by the family’s patriarch, Manie (or Pa), to her dying wife Rachel (or Ma). But this promise sets the stage for a series of interconnected promises and obligations that shape the characters’ lives. The story spans several decades, from the final years of apartheid to the post-apartheid era, providing a backdrop of political and social change in South Africa. Amidst this backdrop, the Swart family, mainly the three siblings Anton, Astrid and Amor, grapple with their own personal struggles and relationships. The central character, Amor, Rachel’s daughter, is burdened with the weight of her mother’s promise. She is torn between her commitment to her family and her desire for a different life. Her relationship with her brother, Anton, is also central to the narrative, marked by love, rivalry, and shared responsibilities. Amor is driven to do it, something compulsive in how she seeks out suffering and tries to ease it. Because you can't, not in this particular battle, you can't win. So why impale yourself, over and over, on a spike that will always be there, no matter what? Do you want to hurt yourself? The tortoise shell is, or rather was, one of very few obiects she's collected, all of them picked up in the veld out there. A weirdly shaped stone, a tiny mongoose skull, a long white feather. Otherwise the room is empty of the usual signs and clues, it contains just the single bed with its blanket, the bedside table and lamp, the cupboard and chest of drawers, the wooden floor with no carpet or covering. The walls are also bare. When the girl herself is absent, the room is like a blank page, almost no marks or clues to say anything about her, which perhaps does say something about her. Throughout the novel, the promises made by the characters to each other and to themselves are tested and strained, leading to moments of conflict and reconciliation. These promises serve as a lens through which the reader witnesses the complexities of human relationships and the consequences of choices made in the face of adversity. What makes this book particularly noteworthy is its ability to intertwine personal narratives with the broader context of South Africa's political transformation. The novel captures the palpable sense of change and uncertainty that marked the country's transition from apartheid to democracy, offering a unique perspective on historical events through the lens of everyday lives. In short, "The Promise" by Damon Galgut is a poignant exploration of family dynamics and the impact of promises. It's a book that invites reflection on the nature of commitment, the complexities of human relationships, and the enduring impact of our choices. For readers who appreciate thought-provoking, character-driven narratives, this will be a great read!

Ooof this novel is an achievement. Galagut’s narrative approach is unique- but executed expertly. It a voice which gives life to a complex, heavy story. This novel is about the weight of unfulfilled promises in individual lives, families and nations. It’s one of those reads where at times you might wonder about the significance of small moments or choices Galgut has made but by the end he’s turned you around and everything has come back to you, asking you to think again from a different view. Exceptionally clever. It’s a novel that will reward a re-read and I expect it to stay with me for some time.

One of the finest novels I’ve had the pleasure of reading. A longer review may follow, but I may also choose to bask in the afterglow of this incredible read.

what am i supposed to do with myself now.

An exhilarating, twisted tale of desire, suspicion, and obsession between two women staying in the same house in the Dutch countryside during the summer of 1961—a powerful exploration of the legacy of WWII and the darker parts of our collective past. A house is a precious thing... This was a deliciously riveting piece of fiction involving a woman named Isabel who is desperately attached to her familial country house. It will one day belong to her brother Louis, who has not yet settled down and prefers city living. Her other brother Hendrik lives with his significant other Sebastian in city digs as well. But this house, with its prized contents like the dinner plates adorned with hares- is everything to Isabel. Louis seems to dither from girlfriend to girlfriend, but now he's shacking up with Eva. When he's called away for a business trip it's proposed that Eva stay in the country house with Isabel- to her horror and disgust. However, Eva has a strong, direct, charismatic personality that challenges Isabel and leads to unexpected consequences and intimacy. This taut, languidly unfolding tale had me in the palm of its hand and is quite possibly the best piece of fiction I've read this year. Thank you to the publisher Avid Reader Press / Simon & Schuster for providing an advance reader copy via NetGalley.

I feel punched in the gut. This story unlocked something slumbering in me like in a deja vu. The nostalgia, the Dutch culture seeping off the page, the silence and suffocating tension. The confused longing for someone you are supposed to despise. All of it so vivid, so real - shedding light on a devastating part of Dutch history they did not teach us anything about in school

Completely breathtaking. It starts out being one kind of story and it's so good, and then it goes somewhere so unexpected and becomes something else entirely and it's just astonishing. The characters and their journeys are so rich and the sense of longing throughout is powerful - not only romantic and sexual longing (which is abundant and beautiful) but bone-deep hunger for safety, home, belonging, justice - the way that desire, especially queer desire, is also an ache for belonging - the way that revenge, reparative justice, redemption is a longing for things to be as they should be, for things to be as right as being home is right - it's all so much and I feel changed having read it. I was continually amazed at the writing even at the level of the sentence. It's so lush and so exact. An incredible feat. Just absolutely stunning. It feels like such an immense privilege to have read this early - both for my own experience and for getting to know that the world is on the cusp of receiving this absolute gift. REREAD REVIEW: Just an incredible book. I was more able to appreciate the (view spoiler)

[4.5] No stop it right now!!!! I was not expecting to love this so much. It felt like it crept up on me. The beginning actually had me feeling nervous and almost sad for our fmc, then something happened…I kind of didn’t want to read it because it had an overarching way of making me feel somewhat macabre, yet with the two women this follows and their relationship I just simply couldn’t put it down one it got going. Amazing. So close to five stars!!

A house holds secrets, quietly breathing life into closed memories until those memories open like buds to a breaking dawn and the sunlight that seeps into the darkest corners sets the world on fire. In 1961, the Netherlands is primly cleaning up the remnants of war. Isabel, nearly thirty, lives alone in the provincial countryside in a home her family was quickly shuttled into during the war's tumult, purchased fully furnished by a benevolent and resourceful relative. Her younger brother, Hendrik, is anticipating a move to Paris with his lover. The eldest, Louis, shuffles girlfriends like a deck of cards, discarding one after the other. The house is his to inherit when he decides to settle down. In the meantime, Isabel clings to its very foundations, praying not to be dislodged. When Louis installs his latest girlfriend in the bedroom of the siblings' late mother while he takes an extended business trip abroad, Isabel's solitude is shattered. The girlfriend, Eva, disturbs the peace with an electric intensity. She is inquisitive and insistent, cheap with her frizzy bleached hair and loud red lipstick. She clings to Isabel, who rebuffs her with snide and cutting asides. Then tiny things begin disappearing: a teaspoon, a thimble. Isabel suspects the maid who comes in nearly everyday to cook and clean, but she also questions her own sanity, and the fickleness of memory. Quiet tension underlies every breath of this exquisite psychological thriller. Yael van der Wouden explores the legacy of Holland's participation in the ethnic cleansing of Jews in the thirties and forties through the eyes of a young woman singularly bent on revenge. Her writing is taut and understated, except when writing of the body's most secret and deepest pleasures, when it becomes lush and visceral. This is also the story of discovery of desire, of self, and of the redemptive possibilities of love. A stunning debut from a gifted and generous writer. Highly recommended.

4.5 stars The Safekeep is a mesmerizing and beautifully written debut that explores themes of obsession, love, sibling relationships, desire, and the aftermath of war, all set against the backdrop of the Dutch countryside in 1961. The story unfolds at a slower pace, introducing us to a cast of flawed and complex characters, particularly the main protagonists, Isabel and Eva. Isabel, haunted by paranoia and an obsessive need to count and control the items in her family home, finds herself in a close proximity situation with Eva, her brother’s new girlfriend. Eva, who arrives unexpectedly and must stay at Isabel's home while her brother attends to business, is the polar opposite of Isabel. Where Isabel is meticulous and anxious, Eva is carefree and somewhat disrespectful towards the property, handling objects without a second thought. Despite their differences, Isabel and Eva develop an intimate relationship, setting the stage for conflict and tension. The dynamic between them is compelling. We get a narrative providing a shift in perspective in the final chapters that give crucial insights into Eva’s life. These chapters are particularly well-crafted and surprising; answering many lingering questions, enhancing the overall narrative. Van der Wouden’s debut is loaded with emotion, and drew me in with its rich descriptions and nuanced portrayal of human relationships. The Safekeep is written so beautifully, it’s a powerful story that resonates. Brilliant debut novel. Winner of the Women’s Prize for Fiction, 2025

An achingly passionate story that morphs into something more potent and dangerous. Review to come.

This is a brooding and powerful novel. 2025 Winner of Women’s Prize for Fiction !!😊😊 No spoilers ! Its energy and power creeps up slowly... the first part of the story introduces Isabel who has lived in the family home alone since her mother died and in many ways has trapped herself psychologically within the walls apart from seeing her brothers- has she taken on the role of the guardian of the house - to keep it safe and her memory of her mother. The sense of isolation and suppression of living is palpable and Isabel's anger and frustration to keep herself alone and protecting the house is disturbed by her bother's request to accommodate his girlfriend Eva whilst he is away on business. Isabel's life is soon to go into free fall as sense of foreboding is broken down into something much more unexpected This is 1960s Netherlands and the repercussions of World War II are hidden beneath the surface; ignored, deliberately forgotten but the story of Isabel and Eva brings to light the greed of humanity and the ability to block or not recognise the reality and tragedies of the war- families lost everything and others capitalised on this. The Safekeep is the story of a house; identity , belonging and the exploration of what 'home' means in relation to love and family. The two main characters are beautifully realised and their damaged selves emanate off the page. The final third of the book brings to life the hidden secrets and provides the shock.. How far would we go to get something back? What does ownership mean? Yael van der Wouden has written a superb novel that will resonate far beyond the pages. We must never forget history and how the roots of events spread deep and wide. How close do we actually look at the truth about our family's past?

The Safekeep is why I don’t DNF books

What a fantastic literary fiction/Gothic (can I call it that?) novel! I can't wait to read more by this author.

This one was a glorious surprise. The story begins about 15 years after the end of the WWII in a house on the outskirts of a Netherlandish town occupied by a young woman named Isabel, who lives quite a solitary life. Her two brothers live in a nearby town and her parents are no longer alive. Isabel is a tightly wound coil of emotions; her upbringing, her mother, her femaleness, and her era have made her keep herself very much check. Into this mix comes another young woman named Eva, girlfriend to Isabel’s brother. Eva is left at the house as a kind of companion to Isabel when Isabel’s brother goes to London for work. Initially, Isabel is tyrannically hostile to Eva, absolutely resistant to sharing her home with anybody. She’s incredibly protective of the contents of the house, always making lists about what items are in the cupboards and on the shelves, marking off every time she thinks one of these items goes missing. At first it seems like a peculiar obsession, as if she’s looking to find some way to place blame on her house guest, but is perhaps only imagining that the items are gone. There’s a sense of something unsettling having happened in the past—and of course it did; the war was only fifteen years ago. This first part of the book rewards patience. It’s a story that unfurls gently around you the deeper you get into it. When the two young women break through their initial enmity and start to become quite close, the story changes direction. You’re suddenly reading a very intimate and up close account of a forbidden relationship. Then the author pulls the rug out from under you, with what isn’t a twist, but rather the bedrock of the story. To say any more would be to give too much away. All I can say is that this is another one you need to add to your TBR pile now.

Look, I’ve even taken some time to think about it, and I still think this book was incredible. Maybe i just like books about houses? Will ponder this… 🤔

Yes, more of this please.

How does one write about a book that is so utterly moving? So full of surprises? So full of nothing and everything and all the things you can not say? I guess the only thing to do is to start. One word, and then the next, and then several, and soon you will have sentences and paragraphs and the more you write, the more it will turn into something real. The Safekeep felt like this. A woman, Isabel. She doesn’t know where to start with her life. At the very least anyway, she thinks she already has one, a life. She thinks that keeping up her family’s home, which she is the only remaining occupant, is the way to live a fulfilling life. She is mistaken. It has turned her into a sour, angry and bitter woman. She loves the house, please do not allow me to misguide you. But she yearns for something she doesn’t yet know she needs. And then one day, her older brother, Louis, brings home another in his lengthening list of beaus, Eva. He tells Isabel and Hendrik (their younger brother) that she is the one, that he is so in love. That he can’t live without her. Don’t we all wish it could be this way. Louis is called away on a business trip, and due to unforeseen circumstances, Eva ends up spending the duration of the trip with Isabel at the family home. What transpires over the course of the 4 weeks that Louis is gone is nothing short of breathtaking. What will Isabel do with this strange woman in her home? She doesn’t want her there, she hates her. Yet somehow, a life, no, two lives are changed irreparably during this scant time frame. And if you think that I may be giving too much away, you are oh so mistaken… The Safekeep is one of those books that is so beautifully written you don’t know how you have ever lived without it. You ache to be able to articulate in such a manner as this author. Her words burrow into you, wrapping themselves around your heart, caressing your mind, exhaling on your breath. She feels. Her characters feel. You feel. You don’t want it to stop. Please don’t let it stop. Let me enjoy it and roll around in it just a little longer… I have absolutely not a thing to say poorly about this book. I loved it with my soul. My (maybe?) only gripe was that I really disliked Isabel’s character at the beginning of this book. Is that rectified as we read on? Hopefully. Maybe. You will have to read it and find out for yourself. This book is too luscious to spoil for you. Trust me.

I can only describe this novel as a work of art. The Safekeep, the debut novel from Dutch author Yael van der Wouden is an incredible feat - an intimate piece of historical fiction that draws you in and doesn't let you go. This is a slow-paced novel, with the characters and plot slowly and intimately revealing themselves to the reader, set against a backdrop of The Netherlands post-World War II. Isabel lives alone in a house in a rural province of the Netherlands following her mother's death. She has her routine and her own way of life which is abruptly upended when her brother Louis introduces his new girlfriend Eva to Isabel and their brother Hendrik. In the summer of 1961, when Eva comes to stay at Isabel's house, small items and utensils begin to go missing in the house and Isabel finds herself drawn to Eva in ways that she cannot countenance. This was a haunting time capsule of a story brimming with tension and emotion. It's a reminder of the wounds that fester after a war, and the necessary healing and reconciliation required for people to be able to move on. I took my time with it and loved every page. Recommended for fans of historical literary fiction. I expect The Safekeep to appear on literary prize lists later this year. Simply brilliant, reads like a modern classic. 5/5 stars *Many thanks to the publisher Viking Books and Penguin Books Ireland for the beautiful hardback copy (#gifted) in exchange for an honest review. The Safekeep will be published on 30 May 2024.

A return to the Houellebecq of The Map and the Territory. The other day someone tweeted that one of the best parts of a new Houellebecq novel is the confused, frustrated, and ultimately resigned attempts at reviews, and I added that the traditional way around this is to pad out both the biographical section (enfant terrible of French literature turned prophet, add a few anecdotes) and the plot summary (aging depressive recounts his sexual and work careers, reconnects with college friend turned failed farmer). Anyway, this one rules. The whole plot of the first half is just there to let Houellebecq muse on his favourite subjects (sex, porn, political economy, agriculture, tourism, you know the drill). And yet there's an important change to this one, too, because I think Houellebecq knows that the only way to be provocative in the era of Trump, Brexit and Marine Le Pen is to avoid nihilism, in fact to do the opposite, to show empathy. If you don't believe me ask yourself if that child would have been spared in any of his previous novels. Of course, that's not to say he has empathy for anyone deserving of it. Au contraire. Here it's an aristocrat farmer looking to burn the world down before he kills himself, plus a take on the standard Houellebecqian protagonist-narrator that's both true to form (it couldn't be anyone but Houellebecq) and a perhaps speculative variation. I made a thread of my favourite parts here.

“Sometimes I think the crazies aren’t people, they’re not real. They’re like incarnations of the city’s madness [...] if they weren’t there we’d all kill each other” this book is like the less erotic but more horrific version of Her Body and Other Parties: Stories and that’s everything i ever wanted and needed.

#partner @randomhouse “She thought it was wrong for Pedro not to turn the video over to the authorities immediately, it was what he should do. But she couldn’t pretend to be some kind of pure soul: she really did want to see that cellphone video, she was dying to see it, and that morbid curiosity wasn’t exactly a paragon of virtue.” I don’t remember having highlighted the quote I included above. It was apparently the only passage I highlighted in this entire book even though I remember highlighting many. The thing is, reading it back now I’m sure this book & my brain knew the quote essentially defined my experience with the book. I was equally spooked & strangely mind blown by how descriptive/disturbing these stories are. Stories that cover the different ways in which human spirits/souls can be broken simple by living. I should preface with saying I’m not one to read or appreciate horror in the way I ended up being unable to peel my eyeballs away from this book. I felt manic for it in the way the quote describes the mania a certain character has for seeing a horrific video. I’m still honestly a shook I took this all in with curiosity and appreciation. I think about the why of it and what I think is to blame is the writing! It’s accessible & grabbing while not being overly punishing. There’s also the appreciation and awe I have for being able to witness women from Latin America write in such a way. In a way free of judgement & without trepidation (though maybe some readers might judge lol). Though I can read this in it’s original language I am extremely grateful writers like Mariana Enriquez’s work is being translated into English & I’d like to request more please.

No book I've read ever touched me more than this incredible novel. To know that Stuart lost his own mother to alcoholism at 16 makes the story even more poignant and its telling all the braver. Brilliant. Genuinely brilliant.

Well-deserved winner of the Booker Prize 2020 This, ladies and gentlemen, is a true gem, a wonderfully empathetic, but also tough novel about the son of an alcoholic mother growing up in Glasgow during the Thatcher era, and this debut might become all the rage this award season. Stuart's novel centers on young Shuggie, whose beautiful mother Agnes left her first husband - a steady and honest, but not very exciting man - because she dreamt of a more glamorous, affluent and adventurous life with her lover Shug. Caught up in her own want and daydreams, she marries the womanizing and abusive taxi driver and has her third child with him (Hugh, called Shuggie), but when Agnes realizes that he will not live up to her ideals and turn her life around, she starts wrecking herself with alcohol - and Shug leaves. Shuggie grows up feeling responsible for his mother, desperately trying to support her while feeling utterly helpless - at the same time, he struggles with his queerness, faces abuse and suffers under the oppressive poverty that surrounds him. Stuart introduces us to a child who tries to take responsibility for overstrained grown-ups, his siblings who find different ways to cope, a woman whose happiness is fully dependent on the men she is with, a whole neighborhood going down with the collapsing industries, and working-class men and women who see their pride dwindle. Until today, Thatcher is a much-hated figure in Scotland, as during her time as Prime Minister, heavy industry pretty much collapsed, mines closed, the financial market was deregulated, and unemployment rocketed. Many workers felt like not only their livelihood, but their dignity was at risk (see the miners's strike 1984-1985), and Glasgow University found out that the rise in drug deaths in the 1980s was linked to the rise in inequality - the study talks about an "erosion of hope". This "erosion of hope" is exactly what the characters in the novel experience. Stuart's writing is strongest when he paints individual, bleak pictures, grim vignettes about fear, brutality, surrender and self-hatred. Drunk and helpless, Agnes faces sexual assault, Shuggie is bullied and attacked, and the equally poor neighbors are fighting all kinds of demons, but they can all hardly find the strength to act in solidarity - they are overwhelmed by the cards life has dealt them. Meanwhile, Agnes' parents blame themselves, and especially her father, a worker of a different generation, has trouble stomaching what has become of his daughter - not that unworldly, selfish Agnes doesn't carry responsibility for her actions, she clearly does, but the reality that surrounds her makes it a lot harder for her to get up again, become sober and take another chance. Still, there are also glimpses of hope, there is love (although love is sometimes not enough) and the power of empathy and forgiveness. A lot of dialogue is written in Scottish dialect, which gives the text an even grittier, more authentic feel. Stuart crafts elaborate scenes to illustrate (but never openly explain) his points, adding lots of atmosphere and giving intricate descriptions of people's looks, movements and behaviors: Agnes in a wet fur coat, shaking from withdrawal; Shuggie in his wellies stealing copper with his brother; balding Shug driving through Glasgow in his taxi - there are so many memorable scenes that shine through their almost visual quality and emotional intelligence. This is a novel about a ravaged family in a desperate neighborhood, a story about addiction, and an evocation of a period of Scottish history that still reverberates. It is a compassionate text by a writer who knows what he is talking about, a companion piece to Trainspotting (not although, but because it is so different), a book not to be missed. You can learn more about the German translation in my radio piece and in our latest podcast episode.

DESERVED BOOKER PRIZE 2020 WINNER - and thanks to the BBC for featuring my congratulatory tweet just ahead of Nicola Sturgeon's (also now winner of the Book of the Year as well as Best Debut Novel in the 2021 British Book Awards/"Nibbies") A desperately moving, heartbreaking book: one which places hope and despair, love and brokenness on the same page, treating them with equal weight and empathy. I first read this book ahead of the Booker longlist and felt sure (see below) it would make that list and could even be a potential winner - turns out I was right. Re-reading the book now 1 week ahead of the winner announcement I appreciated even more than the first time what a beautifully crafted book this is. Unfortunately though, from the rest of the shortlist (a good part of which I have re-read in the last weeks), one has to conclude that the judges are more interested in topicality and importance than they are in whether a book is actually well written and this feels a book more suited to a rather better Booker vintage. Her body hung off the side of the bed, and by the odd angle Shuggie could tell the drink had spun her all night like a Catherine wheel. He turned her head to the side to stop her choking on her rising boak. Then he placed the mop bucket near the bed and gently unzipped the back of her cream dress and loosened the clasp on her bra. He would have taken off her shoes, but she wasn’t wearing any, and her legs were white and stark-looking without the usual black stockings. There were new bruises on her pale thighs. Shuggie arranged three tea mugs: one with tap water to dry the cracks in her throat, one with milk to line her sour stomach, and the third with a mixture of the flat leftovers of Special Brew and stout that he had gathered from around the house and frothed together with a fork. He knew this was the one she would reach for first, the one that would stop the crying in her bones. This book is a remarkable well executed debut by a Glasgow born author, now living in New York where he works as a fashion designer. In a Lit Hub article (recommending other books set in Glasgow) he effectively sets the scene for this book: I grew up in a house without books, which was not unusual for the time or the place. The working men who surrounded me bent steel for a living, they built fine ships, or traveled miles into the earth to hack away at coalfaces. We sons took after our fathers. We kicked things—first it was footballs, then it was each other—and as we grew, we had little time for books. We sought apprenticeships or we learned trades. We were proud, we were useful. But the ruling conservative government cared nothing for the honest, working poor. They set about privatizing most manufacturing, removing all support for nationalized labor. In doing so Margaret Thatcher decimated the working man. Her policies swept all heavy industry from the west coast of Scotland in the span of a single generation and did it with all the disregard of a government separated by distance and several social classes. Steel, ships, coal, all gone. The men had nowhere to turn and they became chronically unemployed. They were emasculated and sent by a woman (no less) to rot away their lives into rented settees. A theme also taken up in a recent New Yorker interview discussing a short story published there (as well as this book) The Glasgow I grew up in was rife with drink, drugs, and gang violence. Margaret Thatcher and her remote Tory government closed all the heavy industry in the city within a generation; ships, steel, coal—all gone. This had a terrible knock-on effect on all employment, and working families had nowhere to turn; fathers and sons were all put out of work, with no hope, and it ushered in some of the worst addiction and health crises in western Europe .. The book is effectively two intertwined stories – an autobiographically inspired story of the Bain family (particularly the mother Agnes and her youngest son – Hugh or Shuggie) over the period 1981-1992 (with Shuggie between 5 and 15); and a portrait of what was working class Glasgow in the early aftermath of what I can only really describe as the evils of Thatcherism – with (as the quotes above imply) its heavy industry male workforce becoming unemployed en masse (as collateral – possibly even deliberate - damage in Thatcher’s attempts to modernise Britain and break the power of the Unions) with poverty and addiction taking over. Agnes (as she confesses at the rare AA meetings she manages to attend) is an alcoholic – but also a strikingly beautiful woman and a proud one (both in her speech – when she is not slurring – and her appearance – when not dishevelled by drink). When her first two children Catherine and Leck were still toddlers, she left their father and her first husband – a solid Catholic – for a reprobate (an appropriate term for a non-believing Scottish Protestant), charming, womanising taxi-driver Douglas (Shug) Bain. For years they live with Agnes’s parents – until Shug (by now father to Shuggie) persuades Agnes they should move to a new development in the outskirts of the town – more it seems as a test of her loyalty as by now he claims to be tired of her drinking (or at least sufficiently bored with it to no longer even pretend to be conducting a serious affair with one of the dispatchers) – and he abandons her and the children there, to what turns out to be a devastated community, built near to a now almost closed mine. Agnes is both desperately dependent on others, but also fiercely independent and the resulting combination of neediness and aggression causes all those around her to plot to escape her – over time Shug, Catherine (who escapes first to marriage to a step-cousin and then to emigration), the one true boyfriend she has (her sex life otherwise being either assaults on her when she is under the influence, or quick fumbles exchanged for drink or money to buy drink) and Leckie (who retreats first into himself and his drawing and then to a job and flat as soon as he is of age). The only one who remains loyal to her – convinced, against not only all the odds but all the evidence, that there is some hope for her, is the growing Shuggie – who (as the opening quote shows) has to take on tasks and responsibilities well beyond his age. At the same time he is struggling with his own burgeoning sexual identity. The affected mannerisms and snobbery he adopts from his mother (and which are also mixed up with his almost superstitious as well as guilt-ridden beliefs about how he has to avoid any behaviour which might worsen her chances of recovery) – only make him stand out more from the determinedly masculine culture around him, and lead to bullying, ostracism from his peers and incidents of sexual exploitation from older boys and possibly adults (which Shuggie himself largely tries to suppress from himself and so from the reader). Shuggie’s main struggle though remains with his mother ”Ah just feel angry for the bad things they say about her. You should fight for her.” “I do fight for her!” he said. “Mostly with herself, but it’s still a fight.” And weaved around the tale of the Bain’s (as I said above) is a remarkable portrait of Glasgow. One senses that Shuggie’s troubled but deep relationship with his mother is an echo of the author’s relationship with the City of his birth. As I remarked above this book is very impressive for a debut – showing huge writing maturity. The dialogue is often rendered in dialect – it would be imprecise to say the book is written in a Scottish dialect, instead it is in a variety of Scottish (mainly Glaswegian) dialects – and for a closely observing reader, the gradations of accent and dialect are key signifiers of class/status/religion and also, importantly, aspiration. The narrative though is not in dialogue (this is not say a James Kelman “How late it was, How Late” despite clear commonalities) albeit slang terms are scattered throughout it. For any British reader I would say the book was entirely comprehensible without any need to check terms – and for anyone of a British working class background of the right age, while much of the book may go way beyond poverty they experienced, there will I think be many familiar elements. The writing itself is on one level straightforward, this is no stream of consciousness or different style of writing (like say “Milkman” – another book with strong commonalities) or experimentation, but it is extremely well rendered, with deeply rounded characters, with a vivid use of language and many striking and original similes. One overwhelming impression I had of the book was of time and space: the time it must have taken to write and to craft, and the space it gives the reader to really get to know the characters and to experience the life they lead. This is a book where the length of the narrative and the apparent circularity of the action is crucial to conveying the character’s experiences. I would be disappointed if this does not make the Booker longlist and far from surprised if it progressed further. My thanks to Pan Macmillan for an ARC via NetGalley.

Shuggie, 8-year-old, was born into the gritty, coal - mining town of Glasgow in the 1980s. A place once pulsating with industry, the city was now a ghost of its former self, its mines long abandoned, leaving countless families shattered by unemployment. In a childhood that should have been carefree, he was burdened by his father's relentless infidelity and his mother's spiraling descent into madness. His older siblings, weary of the family's turmoil, had fled, leaving him to navigate a life devoid of joy. At the tender age of 8, Shuggie found himself caring for his alcoholic mother, Agnes. Once a radiant rose, Agnes had been withered by life's hardships, her husband's betrayal, and a relentless pursuit of a life that was never to be. In her drunken stupors, Agnes would cling to Shuggy, spewing venomous words about men, and often attempted suicide. Yet, in her lucid moments, she would prepare elaborate meals for her son, only for these fleeting moments of clarity to be followed by another descent into madness. Shuggie never considered abandoning his mother. He would secretly hide a portion of their meager allowance, ensuring she had food and water even when she squandered the rest on alcohol. He would clean up the mess she left behind, becoming a surrogate parent at a time when he should have been a child. He believed that love was the most powerful force, capable of healing even the deepest wounds, and he hoped to be his mother's sanctuary. To support his family, Shuggie took a job at a local supermarket, a place that employed underage workers. He endured loneliness and ridicule but refused to abandon his education, unlike many of his peers. In a city left to decay, Shuggie became a beacon of hope, the only one who still believed in love and the possibility of a better future. What is happiness, truly? For Agnes, happiness was equated with material possessions: a mansion, a luxury car, and a life of opulence. She had been beautiful, so beautiful that she believed she didn't need to work. However, her beauty had not brought her love, only betrayal. She sought solace in alcohol, escaping the loneliness that gnawed at her. Although she had once managed to quit drinking, she ultimately succumbed to her addiction and her dependence on men. She believed that men would provide for her, never realizing that self-reliance was the foundation of a woman's strength. Watching Shuggie care for her, Agnes went from gratitude to numbness and, finally, to a desperate madness. She sought refuge in alcohol, ultimately ending her life. I believe that Agnes, by placing her life in her husband's hands, failed to understand that true self - love and authenticity are the greatest forms of respect for oneself. But these are merely superficial notions of happiness. True happiness is a feeling, a moment, a smile. It's found in the simple things, in the heart. Douglas Stuart in telling his own story, also offers a glimpse into the changing landscape of Britain during Thatcher's era and the lives of the working class. His narrative is raw, honest, and deeply personal, a testament to the transformative power of writing. It took him 10 years to write Shuggie Bain. Rejected 32 times by publishers, the novel eventually found recognition when it was shortlisted for the Booker Prize. The Booker Prize, dedicated to honoring the best and most enduring fiction, celebrated the authenticity and raw emotion of Stuart’s writing. This is a story of both cruelty and compassion. Shuggy's unwavering love and hope provide a glimmer of light in a world shrouded in darkness. The novel is a powerful testament to the human spirit's resilience. It explores the enduring impact of childhood trauma and the possibility of healing. Does childhood trauma inevitably shape one's adult life? As I closed the book, I found my answer. Everyone has a unique perspective on life. Some see it as a colorful adventure, while others perceive it as a series of ups and downs. Regardless of your viewpoint, one thing remains constant: life is a combination of successes and failures. Enduring hardship is essential for growth. It is the journey through adversity that ultimately leads to triumph. You may find yourself moved to tears, but ultimately, you will emerge stronger and more resilient. That is the power of literature. It inspires us to face our challenges and find hope in the darkest of times. 4.6 / 5 stars

4.5 This is a very heart wrenching story of a young boy named Shuggie who was growing up in public housing in Glasgow.. third child of an alcoholic woman. The woman has three children .. the first two from one good man, who she leaves .. with both children for another man and then had Shuggie with him. The father of Shuggie was not a good man and he moved them all to public housing and then left them...and the woman became increasingly invested in alcohol. Shuggie throughout this story tries wholeheartedly to help his mother.. This story shows us all the torment and anguish that the alcoholic and their loved ones endure. This was a slow read for me.. but I’m glad that I read it. It is so very sad though. Thank you to Netgalley and Grove Atlantic for the ARC in exchange for an honest review!

One of the most moving and gut-wrenching novels I've ever read I must confess: I had to take breaks from this big thick novel because at times it was simply too painful to read. Extreme poverty, alcoholism, bullying, homophobia, abuse – first-time novelist Douglas Stuart captures it all in intimate, authentic detail. And sometimes I found it just too much to take. The Booker Prize-winning novel opens in 1992, when the 15-year-old Shuggie Bain is living alone in a delapidated Glasgow rooming house, working at a grocery store and dreaming of attending hairdressing school. He's just getting by, and tired of warding off the advances of one of the other lecherous, impoverished, heavy-drinking older boarders. But it turns out he knows something about heavy drinking. We flash back to 1981, when Shuggie is growing up in his grandparents' apartment, with his glamorous mother, Agnes – who's said to look like Elizabeth Taylor – his father, Hugh (or "Big Shug"), and his older half-siblings Leek and Catherine. Agnes is a heavy-drinker, and her taxi driver husband's philandering – sometimes with her own friends – often brings along drinking bouts. The family copes with her drinking in various ways; Hugh works the nightshift and sleeps around; the two older kids find refuges elsewhere. Only Shuggie stays at home with his mom. Soon Hugh finds them another home in a cesspool of a neighbourhood called Pithead – surrounded by an abandoned mine and slagheap – but he doesn't live with them. In fact, he moves in with someone else in another neighbourhood. It's in Pithead that Agnes's drinking gets out of control. Once Catherine escapes – to go far away to get married in South Africa – it's up to the two boys to take care of her through benders and other activities she does to secure a liquid fix. For a time, Agnes joins AA and meets a nice widower named Eugene, but he's uncomfortable with the fact that she doesn't drink. Things are fine for a while, until they're not. And Agnes's life spirals even further downhill. Meanwhile, Shuggie – who's always been a bit of an outsider, preferring dolls and figurines to sports and so-called "normal" activities for boys – is dealing with bullying and ostracism, even from adult authority figures. He has a polite, fussy way of talking that brands him as odd. More than his siblings, he's forged a codependent, caretaking relationship with his mum, and has learned how to react to her every mood. (The kids are so sensitive that they can tell when they return home how far along she is in her drinking from the sounds she makes in the kitchen.) He also skips school to cash in her welfare coupons, which she uses for booze instead of food. On one level, the novel is a subtle indictment of the Thatcher era. This novel is grim, but it's also full of a tough, dark humour – particularly when the Pithead women are bitching amongst themselves. Stuart's writing about the older Shug is unsparing; the once-desirable taxi driver is getting older, fatter and balder, and the things he does to try to maintain his looks are mercilessly detailed. Stuart doesn't spare Agnes, either, who's full of vanity, self-loathing and inarticulate yearnings. Even though she's troubled, and sick because of decades of alcoholism, it's clear she wants to be a good mother and a good woman for some man. She's just on a downward cycle that can only end badly. The question hovering over much of the novel is: Will Shuggie survive his painful childhood, or is he irrevocably damaged? What's in store for him? And Stuart, who says the novel is semi-autobiographical – good LORD, I'm so glad he survived that – delivers a bittersweet, believable conclusion. It's not all rosy, but it's not entirely bleak, either. This novel is going to take up residence in my head and heart for a while. There's a section recounting a particularly awful New Year's Eve that will likely haunt me for years. I'm sure the novel will resonate especially strongly with children of addicts. The prose is clear and effective (much of the dialogue is in the Glasgow dialect, where "weans" means "wee ones," i.e. children), the insights into human behaviour unsparing and true. Sure, the novel could be 50 pages shorter, but I didn't mind spending time with Shuggie and Agnes, two real and unforgettable characters who leap off the page, demanding to be heard and loved.

So happy that Shuggie Bain has won the 2020 Booker Prize! You can watch my live reaction to the ceremony and an interview with Douglas Stuart immediately after he won the award here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dxu5dYhyQFY This must be one of the most powerful accounts of alcoholism that I've ever read. “Shuggie Bain” follows the early life of its eponymous hero, but really this novel and Shuggie himself are dedicated to his mother Agnes. In the early 1980s she's raising her children in a Scottish mining town whose workforce has been stripped of its livelihood because of Thatcher's policies. With a clear-eyed detail the story shows the reality of her increasing dependency on drinking: the self-deception and the faltering attempts to deceive those around her, the schemes to obtain a dozen cans of Special Brew, the blackouts and humiliation, the men who prey upon her or enable her, the women who gossip about her and join her in drinking sessions, the way drinking makes her unemployable and even more dependant on benefits, how alcohol takes priority over food when shopping at the grocery store and how her children are left with nothing to eat. All the while adolescent Shuggie maintains a steadfast belief that his mother will get better even after the rest of her family abandons her. He's a sensitive, effeminate boy labelled as “no right” by many of the locals and it's heartbreaking how Agnes' alcoholism eventually comes between them as well. But this novel also captures the warmth, humour and humanity in its characters' lives. This is an intimate, gracefully-told story about a very ugly situation which expands to say much larger things about the way social and economic issues affect the lives of working class families. Read my full review of Shuggie Bain by Douglas Stuart on LonesomeReader

I wasn’t entirely sure whether to read Shuggie Bain. Certain friends told me it was depressing (they weren’t wrong), others told me it was brilliant (they were right). Any book that deals with the thorny issues of alcoholism, poverty and Margaret Thatcher is going to leave a mark. I can testify to the latter. I was 13 and living in Manchester when Thatcher embarked on her psychotic destruction of the North. It was grim. Blue-collared cities like Glasgow got hammered and it still casts a long shadow to this day. Stripped-down, it’s about Shuggie Bain growing up in poverty in Glasgow with his mother, Agnes. She’s a wonderfully complex character, she loves her children, she loves to dance, and she loves to drink. The last one eventually hollows her out. Shuggie is a sensitive boy and it’s his otherness that makes him stand out from the feral neighborhood kids. He doesn’t like football, nor does he want to throw rocks at the moon. At school he is bullied by teachers and pupils alike. But it’s also a book full of warmth and humour. The final scene with Shuggie and his mum is one of the most beautiful things I’ve ever read. And one of the saddest. You’d have to have a heart of stone not to shed a tear at the end. That said, I very much doubt Margaret Thatcher would have wept.

Shuggie Bain is the kind of book that punches your soul and leaves you staring at the ceiling, contemplating if happiness was ever real or just a cruel myth. The things my book club roped me into! No regrets though.

This book is billed as a coming-of-age story but be warned... Shuggie Bain is NOT a John Green book. This is a graphic, gritty, unflinching coming-of-age story about the life of a precious child struggling for air under an avalanche of tribulations and his alcoholic mother of whom his love knows no bounds. It takes a few chapters to settle into Shuggie's world but I implore you to stick it out. Douglas Stuart's writing is exemplary in creating an immersive experience unlike any I've experienced in a long time. Bravo, sir. ** I recieved an ARC from Grove Atlantic in exchange for an honest review. **

Shuggie Bain by Douglas Stuart is a story about a young boy called Hugh (Shuggie) Bain and his relationship with his alcoholic mother Agnes in working-class Glasgow in the 1980's. Shuggie also has a half-brother and half-sister living with him. They live with Agnes’ parents for a while, in a small council flat, then move to a desolate area with little employment and major social problems. Poor Shuggie is the constant in Agnes’ life, he cares for his Mum after her innumerable ‘benders’ and looks after her from the time he is a wean, until the early 1990's when he is a teenager. His Father (Big Shug), is a right old bastard with very few redeeming features at all. In fact, Big Shug is one of the many detestable characters in this story. The author describes the environment of working-class Glasgow with great skill. I can relate this to my childhood in working-class Birmingham (UK) in the 1970's – and three words come to mind “Grey”, “Wet” and “Aggravation”. This is the picture Stuart paints of Shuggie’s world. The author really nails the abject misery of the place, the public housing, the street gossip, the subtle rippling of the net curtains – whenever there is movement on the street, the violence, the poverty and the grey, miserable wetness of it all. I bet this same picture could be portrayed for any major industrialised UK city in the 1970s and 80s. Two main themes really hit me between the eyes during this reading: 1. Addiction Even though this story related to alcohol addiction, many of the experiences of the characters could probably apply to any form of addiction – such as gambling, drugs or the like. But there is something about alcoholism that makes it different, it is so affordable and very accessible. We get to see the whole hopelessness of it all. The horrible consequences of recidivism that are so destructive to those around the addict are described so well in this book. It really is a gruelling read. This author must have some first-hand experience of this topic (himself or someone close) because he is so on point. There is very little light shining through in this story, and even when there is a flicker of hope, it is so, so faint it hardly casts any light at all. The tiny fragments of hope are so fragile. 2. Poverty As this story takes place during Margaret Thatcher’s era, a period of considerable industrial strife, unemployment, de-industrialisation and poverty come to the fore. Agnes and her kids spend some time living in an area where the mines have shut, consequently, men are idle, mothers are trying to feed weans and run a home and those same weans are running rampant. It’s not a very nice mix and associated issues involving crime, violence and addiction are widespread. The author beautifully describes the sanctity of the mother-son relationship, in this case, the unconditional devotion of a young boy towards his damaged mother. Poor Shuggie is not only managing Agnes’ terrible situation he’s also negotiating his own upbringing. This includes him confronting bullying from the other boys at the rough schools he attends. This proves to be particularly difficult as he possesses some of the ‘softer’ male attributes. His schooling would have been a nightmare. Shuggie felt something was wrong. Something inside him felt put together incorrectly. It was like they could all see it, but he was the only one who could not say what it was. It was just different, and so it was just wrong./i> This book was captivating, a real page-turner. It occupied my thoughts in between reading sessions, you know it’s good when that happens. I have just discovered the author wrote this book over a 10-year period – NO WONDER there is so much jammed into each chapter. Brilliant. 5 Stars Big thanks to NetGalley for a copy of this book in return for a review.

5★ “The doormen always saw her gleaming at the back of the line and beckoned her forward, and she pulled the other girls behind her like a chain gang. They held on to the belt of her coat and muttered protest, but Agnes just smiled her best smile for the doormen, the smile she kept for men, the same one she hid from her mother.” Shuggie Bain’s mum. Agnes was a beautiful child who was adored and spoiled by her father, from whom she learned how to get anything she wanted. She loved clothes, make-up, and accessories. Nothing is ever enough, and nothing changes – not her circumstances, her neediness, her desire for more. So, she marries a kind Catholic man who gives her everything, just like her father did, and now she has two kids. But she’s bored. And drinking. She meets night-shift taxi driver Shug Bain (Big Shug) “. . . commanding, magnetic. There was a directness to his gaze that did something funny to Agnes. She had once told her mother that when she met Shug he had a gleam in his eye that would make you take your clothes off if only he asked. Then she had said that he asked this a lot. . . . He had the Glasgow patter.” I kept expecting little Shuggie to feature. We do meet him when the book opens, when he’s almost 16, living alone in a boarding house where there are some dodgy old men. Life is lousy as he tries to go to school and work part-time, underage and underpaid. He tries his best to keep his things neat, tidy, and clean. It’s appalling and I wanted to know how he got here. Well, the author sure answered that question. The first half or more of the book is Agnes, Shug Bain, and the desperate situation for families in Glasgow. After she leaves her Catholic husband to marry Shug, she gets the “poor me’s” again, just wants and wants. Shug tries, but she knows his driving at night gives him plenty of scope to play around in the dark. She wants her own front door. Shug finds a house in a housing scheme, and the move is on. “They were the plainest, unhappiest-looking homes Agnes had ever seen. The windows were big but thin-looking, letting the heat out and letting the chill in. Up and down the street, black puffs of coal smoke came out of chimneys, the houses were incurably cold even on a mild summer’s day.” Welcome to Pithead, the pit being the closed mine and the residents now mostly retrenched miners. “It’s no like there are any new jobs coming here. Disability is the only club we’ve got, and Monday is club day.” But she has a front door. She and Shug also have Shuggie (Hugh), who’s still a little boy, so there are three weans (Scottish for wee ones). The word that keeps coming to my mind for Shuggie is earnest. He adores his mum just as her father adored her. He tries so hard to please. Catherine is an older, wiser sister, while Leek is older but secretive. He draws and listens to his music and tries to help Shuggie behave like a normal boy. Shuggie has a polite manner of speech and seems poncy to the other kids. At one point, on a stinking hot day, Agnes fills an upturned fridge in the yard with water for him to have a cool soak. “Without any negotiation she slipped the black jumper over his head and pulled his trousers down. ‘Underpants or no underpants?’ she asked. ‘Underpants, obviously,’ he tutted and folded his arms. ‘We’re not all in Africa.’ The inside of the fridge was full to the top with cool, running water.” He tutted and folded his arms. I can see him now. The neighbours, the drinking, the bullying of gentle Shuggie, who loves to play with girls’ toys and brush hair – it all adds up to the clearest picture imaginable of Shuggie’s life. Agnes, even drunk, keeps a spotless house (often no food, but clean) and does her hair and make-up. She dresses up to walk down the road to the shop, unlike the slatternly neighbours. She still turns the men's heads and takes great advantage of that. “They were watching as she came out the gate, standing in clusters with bean sauce down their jumpers and weans wrapped around their stretchy leggings.” I knew this had won the 2020 Booker Prize and I’d heard the author say that Agnes wasn’t his mother, but he certainly knew Agnes well. I’m sure he must have said to himself what Shuggie did, wishing his mother would give up the drink and waiting for her to get better, which he was so certain she could. “Shuggie watched her and said under his breath, ‘Why can’t I be enough?’ But she wasn’t listening.” It is a wonderful book. It is full of interesting people, some very kind and caring ones who try their best, as Shuggie does. I was pleased to read this in the author’s acknowledgements. “Above all, I owe everything to the memories of my mother and her struggle, and to my brother who gave me everything he could. I am indebted to my sister for encouraging me to set this into words and share it with you.” Thanks to his sister from me, too. And thanks to NetGalley and Grove Atlantic for the review copy. There's a review with him here that I enjoyed. https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/23/bo...

“Shuggie Bain” is one of the best novels I’ve read in 2020. It’s heartbreaking with tiny dots of humor and a whole lot of love. It’s a character novel, with achingly realistic personalities and not a great deal of plot, other than everyday life. Although this doesn’t sound like it’s riveting with regard to action, it’s absorbing in feelings and humanity. It’s a compulsive read. The story starts with fifteen-year-old Shuggie, living alone and supporting himself. He’s in a tiny bedsit, with more space above him that around him. He’s dreaming of hairdressing school, although he questions whether he belongs there. Most people refer to him as “funny” and not in a good way. He works at a supermarket deli counter, and the matronly ladies love him. But we know right away his life is a bit lonely. Next, author Douglas Stuart, takes us eleven years earlier at a bit happier time. Shuggie is five and living with his grandparents, two other siblings along with his parents. He’s fed and clothed. This is the most stable times in Shuggie’s life. His beautiful mother, Agnes, cares much about her appearances and adores her youngest, Shuggie. Shuggie loves his mum and speaks with Agnes’s verbal formality. Shuggie’s family lives in 1980’s Glasgow, and author Stuart uses Glaswegian dialect that requires some interpretation (and makes it oh so authentic). And we know from the beginning that sweet, innocent Shuggie, with his “funny” walk and his formal speech, in a place where local vernacular scorns formality, that Shuggie is in for a difficult childhood. Douglas Stuart writes with sympathy for all characters. I don’t remember reading such a novel, where all main characters are sympathetically created. In a wide sense, this is a story about a boy growing up in poverty and alcoholism in the 1980’s. At that time, little empathy is provided to the “different” or gay. In fact, Shuggie is a target all through the story. Neighborhood kids bully him. Older school boys steal his lunch tickets so he cannot get meals, and usually it’s the only food he gets in a day. He is sexually abused in ways that are confusing to him. It’s tragic. And his homelife, well, his dear mum, Agnes, struggles through the novel with her love of forgetting her problems in drink. She drives her other children away, as they learn that they need to save themselves. Yet Shuggie, ever devoted, feels that he can save him mum. At such a young age, Shuggie is a caretaker for his mum; he worries constantly about his mum. His love for his mum is so pure that it’s heart-rendering. Stuart’s portrayal of living with an alcoholic parent is breathtaking. The psychological dynamic of the family members seems authentic (seems because I am lucky enough to not know if it is authentic). I read literature for many reasons, and empathy is one. After reading this, my thoughts have changed some with regard to alcoholics and especially the children of alcoholics. Stuart does a fantastic job of showing the conundrum of helping an alcoholic, and when to abandon them to save yourself. And children of alcoholics, I applaud if they made it to adulthood, and became healthy adults. It almost seems impossible. Stuart’s literary prose made me visualize this novel. As I read, I saw it as a movie, a family saga. Even though my heart ached for Shuggie, and the story is an emotionally draining one, it was one that I could not stop reading. I don’t know how Stuart did that. Maybe it’s that he made Shuggie so pure. Although Shuggie should be angry with his lot in life, he forges on to be good. The subject matter of the novel made me avoid it for a long time. But after reading all the high reviews, I decided to give it a shot. I told myself that I could stop reading if it was too angsty, negative, emotionally draining. Even after giving myself permission to drop this novel, I could not stop reading it. It’s short-listed for the 2020 Booker, and I hope it wins. This is a story not to be missed. I wish I could give it more than 5 stars!

Longlisted (and hopefully shortlisted) for the 2020 Booker Prize. Shuggie wants to be a hairdresser. He promised himself that at sixteen he would go to hair dressing college. And yet instead he finds himself working at a supermarket named Killfeathers. The reader also finds him alone and living in a tiny apartment. We are not privy as to why he is alone. or where his parents are. One thing is for certain though, he is lonely and poor. Later he finds himself staring in the mirror at his reflection. Something is wrong. His reflection is not how real boys are supposed to be. He stares but can find nothing masculine staring back. The second chapter will leap back eleven years in time and introduce us to Agnes Bain. She feels a failure living with her husband and three children all crammed into her mother’s flat like sardines in a tin. Agnes is Shuggie’s mother. His father, Shug, is a taxi-driver with roaming eyes and roaming hands, always looking for another woman to add to the list as he drives around in his taxi. The writing and language, beautiful as Shug, talks, most times begrudgingly, to his passengers. Shug would have to be blind not to notice the change in the city under Thatcher as he drives around Glasgow. There is a cloud of angst and melancholy attached to the clients he picks up. He hears it in his passenger’s voices. Jobs are disappearing before the inhabitant’s eyes as Thatcher shuts down the mines. Agnes is wise to Shug’s cheating ways, and she often finds herself ruminating about the days before she was married and had the children. Misses the way men would follow her with their eyes. At times she feels trapped in the little apartment, with Shuggie her key to making things bearable. A talisman used to escape, if not physically, then mentally. We realize just how troubled Agnes is when she lights the curtains on fire with her cigarette just as Shug arrives home for his tea break one night. When Agnes drinks, she becomes bitter, angry, and violent. When the family eventually move out and into their own home. Agnes is stunned as she notices that Shug’s suitcases are not unpacked. Realization dawns that he is not moving in with them. Shug has had enough of Agnes’s drinking, which paradoxically he causes. As time goes on Agnes’ drinking gets worse and the children tiptoe around their mother as if the floor around her is scattered with shattered glass. The deep melancholy seeps into your very bones as you read this novel. There is no respite from the poverty, alcoholism, and abuse with this narrative. The novel itself seems like a quagmire in which any time Agnes nearly makes it out, she is caught, trapped, and sucked back in again. However, it is brilliantly written. Your heart will break for most of the characters and their interminable struggle, most especially Agnes and Shuggie. Shuggie is the one who must be present and watch his mother slowly splinter apart, as she will do anything to procure more alcohol. Shuggie starves as Agnes uses the food rations for drink. And yet he is Agnes’ lifeline, a lifeline, a tether, that unwinds under the strain a little more each day. So much of this novel is about sacrifice as well. When you have nothing and are living below the poverty line, sacrifice is the only way to get things done. Both boys sacrifice much to take care of their mother. Leek sacrifices a position at an art school to stay and help his younger brother who he fears must lose his effeminate way or be broken in this world of intolerance. I think that Stuart has done an amazing job of condensing the terrible conditions and situation that Scotland faced during this era, down into the Bain family. The Bain family depicts, and is a representation of the country, scaled down to the most personal level. Brilliant. This is an incredible debut, one of the best I have read 5 Stars.

Winner of the 2020 Booker Prize Reading Shuggie Bain is like taking an emotional roller coaster ride through a world of addiction, poverty, and pain. The book centers on the loving, yet, turbulent relationship between Agnes Bain, an alcoholic mother of three, and her youngest son, Shuggie. It covers a ten year period and begins when Shuggie is five. Douglas Stuart is a powerful writer who paints vivid painful scenes that allow the reader to experience the everyday reality of children who live with alcoholic parents and its impact on their lives. The book is set in Glasgow in the 1980s during the Thatcher era, and the economic reality of this period provides the backdrop for the sense of despair that permeates the novel. According to Stuart (see link below), the simultaneous privatization of all heavy industry, steel, coal, and shipbuilding caused the transfer of jobs overseas, leaving the British working class with little wiggle room. Unemployment rose to 14% nationally; in Glasgow, it reached 26 percent. Alcoholism and drug addiction spiraled. In 1982, Shug senior, a taxi driver, moves his family to the Council flats (projects) in Pithead, a hard hit, coal mining community on the outskirts of Glasgow, and quickly abandons them. Agnes increases her drinking, and the children become the caretakers. As the oldest children gradually leave, the responsibility falls to Shuggie, a gay youth, who continuously is bullied and harassed, in the closed intolerant world of Pithead. According to the author, Shuggie Bain is about struggle and love. Numerous scenes demonstrate this. Despite the bleakness of his existence Shuggie never falters in his hope that his mother will get better. He provides unconditional love and care, and Agnes, despite her flaws, loves him in return. It’s a sad tale that is beautifully written and deserves the Booker Prize. There is an excellent interview with Douglass Stuart at the following link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lg8K_...

This heartbreaking tale of alcoholism and poverty in 1980s Scotland knocked me over. Yes it's bleak, but it's a completely engrossing story of a boy's love for his mother. A remarkable debut from Douglas Stuart. We begin in 1992. 15-year-old Shuggie Bain is living in a grim bedsit, doing his best to avoid the advances of the creepy old man in the room next door. The story then flashes back a decade earlier. A tiny high-rise apartment houses the Bain family, in a downtrodden part of Glasgow. Shuggie's father Hugh (nicknamed Big Shug) drives a taxi at night, and has an eye for the ladies. His mother Agnes has a drinking problem, which tends to get worse when she suspects her husband's philandering. Catherine and Leek, Shuggie's older siblings, tend to avoid the flat when their mother is one of her benders. However, little Shuggie has no option but to stay at home. There is one ray of hope: Hugh has secured a house on the outskirts of Glasgow, where the family will have more space and a front door of their own. A chance at a fresh start, Agnes tells herself. But the move ends up posing a new set of problems to the Bains. The story paints a sorry picture of 80s Glasgow. It's a city on its knees, crippled by unemployment and an uncaring Tory government. Shug watches it through his taxi windscreen and doesn't like what he sees: "The city was changing; he could see it in people’s faces. Glasgow was losing its purpose, and he could see it all clearly from behind the glass. He could feel it in his takings. He had heard them say that Thatcher didn’t want honest workers any more; her future was technology and nuclear power and private health. Industrial days were over, and the bones of the Clyde Shipworks and the Springburn Railworks lay about the city like rotted dinosaurs. Whole housing estates of young men who were promised the working trades of their fathers had no future now. Men were losing their very masculinity." Though the title bears Shuggie's name, the story is really about Agnes. Her alcoholism worsens with every disappointment that life brings. She's a good-looking woman and has always felt that she deserved more than her unhappy existence. Leek understands that this frustration drives his mother. When he comes home filthy from the quarry, she's not cross with him for hanging around in such a dangerous place, it's for showing her up: "It was the dust that bothered Agnes. It was what the neighbours must think when they saw him come back covered in soot and dirt. How she could no longer pretend that she was nothing like them, that she was better born and stuck only temporarily in their forgotten corner of misery. It was pride, not danger, that made her so angry." What's most moving of all is the unconditional love Shuggie has for Agnes, even after all the torture she has put him through. Cleaning the vomit from her face after another heavy night's drinking. Going hungry again because she has spent all of their money on beer and vodka. The absolute terror that she will eventually kill herself. These are all things a child should never have to experience, but Shuggie still believes that nobody can compare to his Mammy: "She was no use at maths homework, and some days you could starve rather than get a hot meal from her, but Shuggie looked at her now and understood this was where she excelled. Everyday with the make-up on and her hair done, she climbed out of her grave and held her head high. When she had disgraced herself with drink, she got up the next day, put on her best coat, and faced the world. When her belly was empty and her weans were hungry, she did her hair and let the world think otherwise." It's a heart-wrenching story, and it brought me close to tears on many occasions. You can't help rooting for these characters, even for Agnes in all her vanity and self-destruction, willing her to give AA just one more try. And the first line of the book's acknowledgements might be the most poignant sentence of all. A magnificent novel, told with unflinching honesty and profound emotion.

What good was a soft boy in a hard world? Easily the best book I've read all year. It had everything I could possibly want from a 5-star read: complex, compelling characters that I cared deeply about and will never forget; beautiful, sharp, soaring prose; and profound, illuminating truths about the joys and frailty of the human condition. What I loved most about this breathtaking debut novel, however, is that it never once strikes a single false note. Even with authors and books I greatly admire, there are usually places where the figurative language feels too self-conscious or showy, the narrative structure too easily telegraphed, the artifice of the whole thing exposed at the seams. Not once did I experience that here. Page by page, scene by scene, I was helplessly smitten. By turns hopeful and heartbreaking, hilarious and devastating, this is an epic saga about a working-class family coping with poverty and addiction, and an intimate story about what it’s like growing up gay before one even fully understands or can articulate what that means. Hugh "Shuggie" Bain is a sweet, quiet, precocious boy growing up in the housing projects of Glasgow, Scotland in the 1980's and early 1990's. Shuggie grows up surrounded by the taunts of homophobic bullies at school, and the hushed, concerned whispers from grown-ups at home, everyone but him seeming to sense that something about the way he talked, moved, sat, smiled, etc. was "no right." He felt something was wrong. Something inside him felt put together incorrectly. It was like they could all see it, but he was the only one who could not say what it was. It was just different, and so it was just wrong. But the title is rather misleading, because the character looming largest over this entire book is Shuggie's beautiful, fiercely proud, self-destructive alcoholic mother Agnes. More than anything, this book is about Agnes' tumultuous battle with addiction and the myriad ways that shapes and scars Shuggie and the entire Bain family. I know, I know....on the face of it, this sounds almost unbearably dreary and dull. I thought the same thing at first, despite the prestigious awards and unanimously rave reviews from many trusted GR friends. But my initial skepticism could not have been any more misguided, as this turned out to be quite an exhilarating and (dare I say) addictive read, pulsing with humor and vitality and the gut-twisting truths of hard, lived experience. At times this felt almost like a cathartic deep hypnosis, unlocking painful memories from my own "coming of age" as a sensitive, socially awkward, non-athletic, noticeably effeminate gay boy almost the same exact age as Shuggie, growing up in the 1980's on the South side of Chicago instead of the projects of Glasgow. Anyone who has ever struggled with addiction, loved someone struggling with addiction, and/or known the perplexing loneliness of feeling "different" or out of place in the world, will almost certainly connect with this novel in a profoundly moving and memorable way. One word of warning, however: It took me several chapters to get used to the thick Scottish slang and vocabulary. Nothing a little patience and a few Google searches couldn't overcome, and it would be a shame if anyone let that scare them away from this truly wonderful, unforgettable book.

The debut novel of Douglas Stuart AND winner of the Booker Prize, 2020! I read this after Oliver Twist because it is also about a boy growing up in poverty and chaos. Like Oliver it’s a pretty much straightforward story, nothing postmodern about it, nothing particularly lyrical about it, a kind of rollercoaster of a few highs and lots of lows endured with as many laughs/smiles as possible. It’s just storytelling basics, a set of memorable characters and a compelling story, with so much heart, only set in 1985 Glasgow vs. Oliver’s 1837 London. Both in a way are fundamentally about money, or the lower classes, Shuggie’s story set in mid-eighties Thatcher demise, but I’ll say both in a way are also about the importance of the needed love between mother and child, one absent in the orphan Oliver's case, the other a struggle for much of the time in the alcoholic Agnes' son Shuggie's case. And in Shuggie's case, it's also about discovering, mostly painfully at this point, your own sexuality. So, Shuggie’s story has something of that Victorian sentimentalism about it. Agnes is the alcoholic mother being cared for by a growing child who loves her so much, but the money goes to booze and not the bills or food. It’s in a way like the drinking life itself, full of a few rhapsodic, hilarious highs involving dressing up and manic dancing followed by crashing, next-morning lows with regret and sorrow. And then there's Shug’s father, a cabdriver, whom Agnes refers to as “the whoremaster,” and similar painfully hilarious things, is just not fully present for his wife and son. The son Shuggie is a sweet vulnerable boy just hanging on my his fingernails. But in this story Agnes is the shining star, who looks a bit like Liz Taylor, descending into addiction in her ratty mink: “She was no use at maths homework, and some days you could starve rather than get a hot meal from her, but Shuggie looked at her now and understood this was where she excelled. Everyday with the make-up on and her hair done, she climbed out of her grave and held her head high. When she had disgraced herself with drink, she got up the next day, put on her best coat, and faced the world. When her belly was empty and her weans were hungry, she did her hair and let the world think otherwise.” “Shuggie heard the nurse say to a male attendant that she thought for sure Agnes was a working girl. ‘She is not,’ said Shuggie, quite proudly. ‘My mother has never worked a day in her life. She’s far too good-looking for that.’ The matted mink coat gave her an air of superiority, and her black strappy heels clacked out a slurred beat on the long marble hallway.” Shug is a dangerously effeminate (okay, queer) boy in macho Glasgow, bullied all his life growing up. His older brothers got out out as soon as they could, leaving Shug to take care of their mother. There are many great scenes to relate, but one might be as familiar to queer readers as it is tender, where he at the urging of a friend is spending an evening with a girl who at one point who sort of flirts with him, the expectation for both is sexual exploration, and Shuggie is trying, but something's not quite working. The girl finally asks him if he even likes “lassies at all,” and he admits, ”I don’t know” (he’s 14). Then she replies, well, “I don’t know if I like boys, either. . . . so, do you want to be my boyfriend just for now, though?” So he agrees, they can cover for each other, they can be "normal" for a bit, and report that out to others, what a relief. They hang out and get to know each other, discovering they both have what see to be suicidally alcoholic mothers. They play around with each other a bit, physically, awkwardly, just to explore and become friends. I think the whole scene is just so sweet and beautiful and sad, a scene Dickens could have written. How many millions of stories like this exist in the world that were hidden?! Yet in this book, such secrets as may have happened to Stuart as well as Shuggie get revealed. There’s one undeniable Dickensian rags to riches type story that applies here to the book contract itself, as the manuscript took twenty years for the Glasgow-to-NYC fashion designer Stuart to hone and refine, rejected along the route to acceptance no fewer than 32 times!! Then he gets it published and it wins one of the most prestigious literary awards on the planet?! Come on, be realistic! Tone it down a bit, Dickens! But is that story encouraging or discouraging to an unknown writer without connections? Faulkner’s “A Rose for Emily,” a staple of American literature courses, was rejected in its current form thirteen times by magazines before one finally took it! Now a classic, as Shuggie Bain may well be. Ach, the vagaries and cruelty of literary publishing!! In the way of any very good novel, Shuggie Bain gets its hooks into you; I won’t soon forget Shug and his fateful love for Agnes, with heartache and tenderness. I heard it was based quite a bit on Shuggie/Dougie’s own Glasgow life. I bet! It, like Oliver Twist, is a brick of a book that, while sometimes painful to read, is entertaining, a good yarn, with that Dickensian mix of sweetness/sadness to it. Shug is so much like Oliver! Not a “typical” macho boy, but one that is vulnerable and tender, full of anguish and hope. Read it! Here’s some photographs of mid eighties Glasgow, taken by a French photographer: https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-... A fine interview with Douglas Stuart: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lg8K_...

This is an incredibly powerful, tragic and beautifully written story. It's a story about a child and his alcoholic mother and the poverty and deprivation in Glasgow, Scotland in the 1980s, during the Thatcher years. The Glaswegian slang might be difficult for some people to understand but I'm a Glaswegian myself so it was normal for me, i can actually relate to a lot in this book also and it's made me want to read more books that are set where I grew up. I'd read this again and it definitely deserves that 2020 Booker Prize. P.s Any other books set in Scotland that you can recommend?

A great buddy read with Peter and Beata This is the heartbreaking story of Hugh ‘Shuggie’ Bain and his mother Agnes. He’s lonely, on the receiving end of much unpleasantness around his sexuality and has to cope with Agnes’ drinking. Set in the 1980’s of Thatcher’s Britain it shows a time of hardship, of the industrial decline of the heavy historic industry of the Clyde and it’s a bleak, deeply emotional story of a young boys growing up years. This is an incredibly powerful, beautifully written story with Agnes central to the storytelling. She tries to rise above the circumstances she finds herself in and it’s a desperate struggle to hold her head high in the coal black sootiness of the Pithead harsh environment. She spirals further and further down into a pit not dissimilar to the derelict ones around them and the impact on the family is immense. Shuggie is fantastic, he’s clever and he’s a survivor. His love for Agnes is a thing of beauty, I love his occasional humour, there’s dysfunction in his circumstances, he struggles with the neighbourhood children’s taunts and worse, which combined with the grinding poverty it breaks your heart. Shug Bain, Shuggies father, has a great deal to answer for with his careless disregard of his son which I find shocking. The impact of Thatcher’s policies which are sorely felt in areas like Glasgow are extremely well depicted as the age old traditional industries go into free fall. The author paints some vivid pictures with his words and can evoke emotion from the reader too. The religious divisions of the city are depicted with clarity, this is a city where it matters if you are Catholic or Protestant. I’m not going to pretend this is an easy read, it’s dark, it feels very real as families like Shuggies struggle to hold their heads above water and live from one benefit payment to the next. You feel the despair of the brilliantly crafted characters and I feel nothing but admiration and love for Shuggie. Overall, this is an amazing book and one I’ll definitely remember. It’s stark, vivid and compelling. Despite her neglect of Shuggie in her own way Agnes loves him deeply and she teaches him the importance of holding your head high and ‘Gie. It. Laldy’. A worthy winner of the Booker Prize 2020. Ps. The Glasgow accent may be a challenge for some!!!

Deeply affecting, incredibly authentic, and vividly rendered, this is one of the saddest books I’ve ever read, and also one of the books that was most full of keenly-observed, messy, occasionally joyous, but always unpredictable life. I wasn’t quite prepared for how tough it would be at times to read of the travails of Shuggie, his mother Agnes, and the other members of their family, but I was utterly absorbed and compelled by it from start to finish. There is tremendous heartache here, but there is also a great deal of fulsome, unfettered love, and every scene is written with a great, searching intimacy by Douglas Stuart. I’m astonished that this is his first novel. A truly beautiful accomplishment.

Some quick thoughts: Shuggie grows up with a mother who has alcoholism and an abusive, mostly absent, father. At times he has nowhere to go or anyone to help him, which was heartbreaking, especially because he was a child. The setting in Glasgow, Scotland in the 80s was a new one for me, and it made quite the backdrop for this story. Shuggie Bain is definitely deserving of the Booker Prize. While it is certainly a heavy and sad story, there is also hope, especially at the end. Shuggie finds his way, and with the support of a friend, it felt like anything was possible for him. Thanks to Beth for reading this beautiful book with me. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

There are so many quotations filled with praise all over this book's cover and inside the first few pages that one wonders upon picking up: How can a book possibly be this good? Believe all of it. This is a searing and brutal somewhat fictionalized telling of the author's life growing up in poverty in Glasgow. Central to the story is Agnes, Shuggie's mother, an alcoholic whose addiction is so severe that only detox followed by a lifetime commitment to AA would have helped her. It's a portrayal made both real and sympathetic. There is simply no way to hate this terribly troubled woman. The author doesn't spare her. But he also doesn't demonize her. Additionally, Glasgow in the 80s is depicted so beautifully that one's senses light up with an understanding of the place. The novels' largest lesson, I think, is that ultimately the only person you can actually save is yourself. You can help other people along but in the end they have to be willing to do the desperately hard work of living. I can't recommend it highly enough. It's a novel I won't forget any time soon.

Well deserved winner of 2020 Booker Prize and among my highlight reads of 2020. Finalist National Book Awards Douglas Stuart's Shuggie Bain is the contemporary social realist novel at its finest. A harrowing account of the Scottish underclass surviving 1980s Thatcher decimated Glasgow in the wake of mine and shipyard closures. His depiction of the bleak streets and even bleaker lives is compelling. The narrative focuses on a young boy, Shuggie, and his mum, Agnes Bain, as she is destroyed by alcoholism. The account of the impacts of grinding poverty on her relationships with her children (Cathy, Shuggie and Leek) is devastating. Through carefully measured prose and dialogue Stuart places you right in the grimy, desperate mess of their lives at the margins of society. The sense of setting, of 1980s through to early 1990s Glasgow, is just stunning. The streets, homes and lives of the city are rendered with remarkable intimacy: from the lonely cabbies surviving another long boring night to the drink drenched neightbourhood get togethers, Stuart never seems to miss a beat in placing you right there on those streets and in those homes. Stuart's prose and narrative unflinchingly portrays the social costs of intergenerational poverty and social neglect. At the same time, and while never romanticising this experience of poverty in an effort to redeem the characters, he does find moments of humour and tenderness. There is deep empathy and humanity in this novel. Agnes in particular comes through as a desperate woman trying to cling, barely, to some pride, while she hits the lager and vodka and is repeatedly abused and discarded by the many men in her life. The descriptions of the callous neighbourhood women 'friends' that seek Agnes out to 'share a drink' are both amusing with their stinging caricatures and brutally painful in representing how poverty reduces neighbourhood relationships. The backbone of this fine and moving novel though is the mother-son relationship between Shuggie and Agnes as they do their best to hold onto and care for each other while poverty and addiction shreds even these closest of bonds. There is a lasting quality of compassion in this book that will stay with me for a long time, much like one of my all time favorite books, Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath. One of the features that stands out for me is the portrayal of Shuggie as he does his best to come to terms with the realisation that he doesn't fit in with traditional Scottish working class understandings of what it is to be a boy and a man. He is different and many of those aroud him mark him out as 'no right'. This theme of masculine identity and the experience of not fitting is just so well done. It is conveyed with sensitivity. A worthy contender for the 2020 Booker prize, currently longlisted, and I very much hope to see it make the shortlist.

Very powerful and fantastically written. I found it quite a tough read, so I'm not sure it would be right to say that I enjoyed it, but it's a very vivid, powerful novel.

“What makes a ghost a ghost? Can a person be haunted by herself?” . How much of these hills is gold was simply put, one of the best novels I’ve read in years. A stunning story that was dripping with originality and writing that bled truth on every page. Absolutely transcendent of todays typical novel this book broke barriers and literally had me captivated late into the night, and the only thing C Pam Zhang left me with was an unbearable need for more, of her writing, of her beautiful short prose and poetic sentences that blew me away. Regardless of “award status” ( which I’m going to already call that this one will be everywhere come next fall) this is the first book on my top of 2020 list sofar. A true gift to the literary world. . . Set in the midwest from the beginning of the gold rush all the way to the end of it, Zhang opens the novel with the death of Ba, who is the father of two young Asian girls that have already lost their mother. Their father now dead they must travel away from the only “home” they have known and find a place to bury him. Not since Cormac McCarthy or Larry McMurtry has anyone written so feverishly about the American midwest, so descriptive and destructive, bringing to life all the beauty and ravished land these sisters encounter. To put even more of an original spin on things, Lucy ( the older of the two) was never close with her father, and Sam, the youngest identifies more as a male due to the toxic upbringing of her father who so desperately wanted a son so he raised his youngest to be one and she finds along the way that maybe she was meant to be a man all along, and identifies as the male gender. . . Told over four parts we see the past, present, and future of this family. Part three was my favorite and a heart splitting letter from the ghost of Ba to Lucy explaining his and her mothers life before them, why he did what he did, the secrets kept, and the hardships endured, I was broken by the fact it was never truly told to her but more a fictitious telling of their past. However, that section alone was Pulitzer caliber writing, utterly hypnotized doesn’t even do justice to what that part and this entire novel did to me. A story we’ve never heard, immigrants in America, in the 19th century, not welcomed then, struggling with home and family, sadly still fighting the same fight today. A true genius novel. Be prepared to be blown away.

How Much of These Hills is Gold is a powerful and captivating debut novel and the untold story of the arrival of Chinese-American immigrants to the US during the Gold Rush but also a novel about the conflict between two siblings, carrying the body of their newly deceased father across a harsh landscape. Set primarily in the 1860s at a time when the whole area is being opened up to accommodate settlers we meet twelve-year-old Lucy and eleven-year-old Sam who have lost their mother a while ago and now have also lost their father and guiding hand, Ba. Having travelled to America for a better life and to live the American Dream they quickly realise that the grass is not always greener on the other side. They face disgusting racism that was rife at the time and everything they attempt appears to be difficult to deliver. The landscape very much plays a dominant role in the book with its sheer brutality and oppressiveness. It creates a claustrophobic and often harsh atmosphere. This is nothing short of an exquisite and simply mesmerising tale and it manages to be both original and deeply moving. You are instantly drawn to by the family and cast of characters and the hardships and adversity they face only further endear them to you. There were times that my heart was breaking for them and I was desperate to see them get a break. It highlights the bounce-back ability and boldness of the human spirit and so ensues the problem with capitalism where those who are wealthy stay that way and those manual workers faced perpetually with the struggle to makes ends meet remain poor. I enjoyed the way there was many philosophical and thought-provoking topics, immigration, race, gender, sibling rivalry, to name a few, broached throughout and there are many wise words that could transfer easily into today’s political climate. I can not recommend this stunning book highly enough. A haunting and evocative read and one that will not be forgotten easily. Many thanks to Virago for an ARC.

What makes a gook book a good story? HOW MUCH OF THESE HILLS IS GOLD follows the lives of two Chinese-American siblings - Lucy and Sam - when their Ba has just died. In the context of California Gold Rush, these newly orphans strive to find purpose of their lives and somewhere to call home. It took me awhile to get invested in the story while I found myself wondering which direction the plot was going plus getting used to the writing style in the beginning, yet once I figured out the bigger picture, I could not put this book down. At first I thought it was a weird family dynamic, however, soon I understood how the characters' behavior is affected by circumstances that happen in their lives - the reason the siblings were apathetic dealing with situations that people would normally desperate. Through non-linear narrative, Zhang writes with a singular and lyrical style the hardships that this family has to endure and the heartbreaking experiences that fall upon them. The author also weaves in a lot of Chinese culture with a bit of magical realism elements, making specific cultural references and using pinyin (which can be a challenge for non-Chinese readers to understand but this fact only increased my familiarity with this novel). Moreover, Zhang creates well-crafted and complex characters that I grew to care for as I was utterly interested in their development and backstory. In the latter part, this book was filled with such tenderness that not only warmed my heart but also left me wanting more. How much of these hills is gold is an unforgettable storytelling that offers a rich perspective about American West family's life during the Gold Rush and deep exploration of immigrant experience, complexities of family, home, identity, loss, belonging and gender identity. It is an intimate look that evokes raw emotions and I am looking forward to reading more Zhang next title. [ I received an ARC from the publisher in exchange for an honest review ]

This book spoke to me. Literally, in the author’s use of Chinglish without bothering to explain the Chinese transliterations, and also how despite being set 150 years ago, the book evokes such raw emotions of what it’s like growing up the child of Chinese immigrants: never truly feeling at home anywhere you go, the things white people say to you, the secrets your parents hide, bowl cuts. This book is not an easy or fast read, but read it slowly and carefully and you can pull back so many layers. It has so much depth that I’m not even sure I found all the gold it has to offer. I’d have to read it again. There are such profound themes of land and ownership, colonization and capitalism, dreamers and pragmatics, identity and the limits of shaping your own fate. At its core, the book is about resistance and defiance against white colonization and normativity, the dominance of the white narrative. So I don’t really care that most people will not appreciate this book half as much as I did—it’s exactly why I love it.

Finding a good book is like finding gold among vast mountains and rivers. I feel so lucky to be able to discover "How Much These Hills Are Gold". Each line is carefully embroidered by the author's poetic talent so that it is etched into my mind. A powerful and unforgettable read!

thoughts coming shortly

This is a straight-up classic. I fell in love. More on that later.

This is a wonderful addition to the Nervous Conditions series by the great Zimbabwe writer TsiTsi Dangarembga following her protagonist Tambuzai’s trials and tribulations following her exit from the Convent of the Sacred Heart in The Book of Not. It is extremely well-written and an excellent analysis of ingrained colonial mindsets (the series title, after all, coming from Franz Fanon’s The Wretched of the Earth which described this to a “t”) and shows the brutal abuse of women in the newly liberated Zimbabwe at all levels of society. Tambu has fallen from grace and has yet further to fall as her perceptions of inequality erode her ability to even function sanely in society. We see characters we knew from the previous books, particularly the irritatingly successful Tracey as well as her family. The denouement back in her village was particularly well-written and pushed this one into 5-star territory for me. The writer demonstrates that sensitive, gifted individuals like Tambu can only absorb so much of the violence they observe before seeing their own interval restraints blown away. If only Tambu could fully know herself, but she is still stripping off layers of imposed thinking and learning even at this late stage. It is a powerful and artful book and, in this reader’s opinion, probably more deserving of last year’s Booker Prize than Shuggie Bain. A good quote: "I'll get to them," promises Nyasha. "It's just that no one has taken the trouble. Not seriously. They see what they see, right? And no one has taught those poor young people anything different.' You grow increasingly galled by your cousin and her assumption that everyone has the luxury she has of surviving without being ob- sessed with one's own person. All three of them think that now she has taken you out of the institution into her care, everything is wonderful for you. They do not know what it is to struggle with the prospect that the hyena is you, nor how this combat marshals in the task of finishing the brutish animal off, while ensuring you remain alive yourself. You squash an ant scuttling over the table and raise your finger to inspect its crushed black body, but your finger is clean. (p. 149) You rummage in the pile, pulling out books at random and not put- ting them back. The pungency of past decades percolates up: girls wear- in lace gloves and veils to Sunday Mass, eating at heavy wooden tables set with white cloth napkins in silver rings, the constant tension from not knowing whether or not you were as you were meant to be, the bru- tal fighting to answer affirmatively that question, and its damage. (p. 240) It is interesting to note that in this series, Dangarembga wrote the first book Nervous Conditions in the third person (an omniscient narrator), the second book The Book of Not in the first person singular (Tambu's voice), and then this third book in the second person (the "you"). It is as if we approach her character first from the outside, then she has Tambu speak to us directly, and finally she invites us to live thru Tambu's eyes. A fascinating idea, don't you think?

I can't stop thinking about this trilogy and all that it depicts, wondering how to even write about it. On the surface it's the story of Tambu, a girl from a Zimbabwean village, her coming of age and entry into adulthood and how all of that is affected by her encounters with the outside world, firstly through her cousin and Uncle who went to England, who on their return possessed something Tambu wished to aspire to, and knew she could only get through a certain type of education - and underneath it's about the mutation of an individual and a society. That is the beginning of her losing something of herself, in the same way that every country that was ever colonised began a similar descent when their colonisers arrived. Tambu is diligent and focused, on becoming something that "others" approve of and pursues it relentlessly. In This Mournable Body, she is at a low point, she has left a job at an ad agency on a principle, one she has never uttered, nor been supported in, wrongs happen in silence, rights are not up for discussion. She moves to the widow's home and ponders another route while helping herself to the vegetable garden, she imagines seducing one of the sons, though never acts on it. Homemaking isn't one of her aspirations. She returns to teaching, we know intimately of her experience as a pupil, what she encounters are wholly different children, the "born-frees". Tambu has always adapted to fit in and tried to excel to overcome obstacles, in the classroom signs of mental unease appear, she reaches breaking point. And tips over. Returning to her cousins home, she is further disillusioned, unwilling to accept her reality, her aspirations still carry foreign expectations. It's a life of pursuit and escape as each new venture brushes up against values and principles she doesn't think or speak of, that force her to act when she realises she is compromising who she is. Denial battles with mental stability. When the ants appear it's time to pay attention. In a recent interview NPR's Sacha Pfeiffer asked about the message Tsitsi Dangarembga is giving to young Zimbabweans, given the despair of her anti-hero Tambu, in a week where the author was shortlisted for the Booker Prize and arrested for a peaceful protest against government corruption: "What happens is up to us because Tambudzai - all she's concerned with is getting ahead in her own life. I show that that kind of attitude may lead to a person getting what they want for some time. But in the end, the repercussions of that kind of behaviour are going to be felt by everybody...because since the economy is so difficult, people think, I just have to put my head down and do what's best for me. But that doesn't solve the community - and - national - level issues that we have to engage with." Highly Recommended. My complete review, including extracts from the live London Review Bookshop, interview of Tsitsi Dangarembga by Sara Collins here at Word by Word.

This isn't an easy book - it's written in the second person, and it's immersed in the history, language, culture and rhythms of Zimbabwe in the late 90s, and it changes in tone frequently from satirical to searing to sad. That said, it was precisely this difference - really, this book is completely different than anything else I have ever read - that led me to give it five stars. Dangarembga writes about Tambudzai, a woman of indeterminate age (no longer very young but not very old either, it seems), deeply affected by her education and upbringing during Rhodesia's racist last days, and the ensuing civil and regional conflicts, trying to emulate a white version of success (but also just stay afloat in a crumbling Zimbabwe), while she struggles with depression. Along the way, there's many many fascinating sharply (and satirically) drawn characters and vignettes. The send up of "eco tourism" is very funny, indeed. Sometimes I had a hard time knowing exactly what was going on. Dangaremba's writing varies from the allusive to the very concrete, and there's also lots of Zimbabwean references that I just didn't get. But I found that concentration and persistence really paid off, and I found myself rooting quite hard for Tambudzai, even when everyone around her (and her own worst instincts) are laboring against her. Overall, a deep dive into a world that was very new to me - with my only superficial knowledge of recent Zimbabwean history and even less knowledge of their literature. A talented writer throwing a lot out there - sometimes it almost feels like too much - telling a compelling story that is by turns richly funny and painful. I will go back and read Dangaremba's earlier books.

Tambu is all of us

In "This Mournable Body" Tsitsi embarks on the adult lives of 'Nervous Condition' characters and underscores how the impact of war, shattered dreams of freedom and possibilities in a failing Zimbabwean state shapes their lives. There are many projects that Tsitsi pursued in this book. These two stood out to me: First, focusing on the bodies of women, she shows us the varying lives of Zimbabwean women in a free Zimbabwe and how they make meaning of life. Second, she demonstrates how in a postcolonial state, colonial vestiges and remnants of freedom war are ubiquitous and they inform everyday activities be it in offices, renting property, schools, interacting with each other, tourism, marriage, naming, dressing, food, transport system, managing servants name it. This does not mean that the culture, values, and way of life dissipates, some change while some stays intact. I must admit that this book is a rather difficult read. Specifically, more than half of the book is difficult on the account of the precarious life of Tambu and many around her. Nonetheless, in the end all is well, especially Tambu's life thus giving the reader a sense of hope. The book is also infused with some much needed comical incidents that trigger laughter. I did laugh loudly at many points of the book because I could relate to what was going on. Generally, Tsitsi does a good job weaving gender, race, class, sexuality, ageism, ableism and religion.

This Final Book of the Nervous Conditions series is a Masterstoke with its writing techniques. This entire series will remain a Memorable Must-Read to Cherish. Ms. Tsitsi Dangarembga's debut novel, Nervous Conditions, was the first to be published in English by a Black Woman from Zimbabwe. And, was named by BBC in 2018 as one of the top 100 books that have shaped the world. It was a True Pleasure to ABSORB THE BEAUTY of this Series!! 💫

After turning the last page of Maria Reva’s fascinating new book, Endling, I sat still for a few minutes and asked myself, “What did I just read?” Certainly, it’s a book of metafiction. It’s written by a Ukrainian expat who reveals herself as the puppeteer of this engrossing story. I would not call it absurdist literature because, while the themes are pessimistic, I was left with a feeling of hope, not nihilism. Nor would I call it fabulistic or dystopian or heaven forbid, romance. Endling is sui generis, and that, in my opinion, is a very good thing. Let’s start with the title. An endling is the last known member of a species or subspecies. When the ending dies, the species becomes extinct. Yeva – whose name translates to Eve, the mother of humankind – is a scientist who studies these soon-to-disappear species. Ironically, she has no interest in marrying or procreating herself, and it’s not a stretch to think of her as closed up in her own little spiral. Since funding is hard to come by, Yeva earns money by being part of the booming marriage industry in Ukraine. Her job is to entertain bachelors who arrive from other countries, hoping to connect with beautiful brides unfettered by modern ideas. There, she connects to two activist sisters hatching an audacious plot – to kidnap a truck full of these bachelors to shine a light on the industry's excesses. To provide more of the plot would be to deprive readers of the delight of reading this original novel, which is threaded with fascinating insights about how the Ukrainian people are functioning and holding up in these surreal times. So many questions arise: in a country where it’s hard to hold on to the past or future, where everything is trained on the present, how do ordinary people survive? Does the illusion of romance ever equal reality? How do we tackle the forces of nihilism – and even extinction – to end up with hope? And finally, most importantly, do we have any power over the stories we tell that define our circumstances and also give us reasons not to give up? How do our stories help us survive? All this being said, Endling is also an accessible book, that can also be read as a sort of adventure and a peephole into biology, the wedding industry, and the state of the Ukraine people today. I am thankful to Doubleday and NetGalley for enabling me to be an early reader in exchange for an honest review.

Winner of the 2025 Gordon Burn Prize Shortlisted for the Climate Fiction Prize Finalist for the 2026 Aspen Words Literary Prize Longlisted for the 2025 Booker Prize I need to keep fact and fiction straight, but they keep blurring together. Endling by Maria Reva is a brilliant meta-fictional debut novel, darkly humorous but with important messages about love, survival in the face of aggression, and the need for resistance against US and Russian territorial aggression, and surely must feature in this year's Booker Prize. The novel began as a more conventional one, although with an unusual subject matter, combining the marriage-tourism industry in Ukraine with the preservation of snail species on the verge of extinction, but which was derailed by the 2022 full-scale Russian invasion, leading the author to at first abandon the project, but then pick it up with the meta-fictional slant, where the novel contains the process of writing it: Explain the inspiration for your project or why you wish to undertake it at this time: My opus draws inspiration from the wellspring of narrative prowess exuded by Deb Olin Unferth's canonical work, Barn 8, wherein the notions of abduction and social justice deftly intertwine, as well as the groundbreaking metafictional elements prominently displayed within the protonovelistic oeuvre of Salvador Plascencia's The People of Paper. Thus fortified by the literary beacons that have illuminated the path before me, Endling seeks to transcend the boundaries of conventionality while being grounded in the timeless questions of the human condition. Now that Russia is conducting a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, the central conflict woven into the delicate fabric of my novel, namely the influx of Western suitors into Ukraine, has been subjugated-or ripped apart, to keep with the metaphor—by a far more violent and destructive narrative. My novel (postnovel? yet-to-be defined entity?) needs further tailoring to reflect these rapidly changing circumstances. The author has said in an interview in The Rumpus that "I think the novel is itching to be ripped apart again", and the book e.g. contains a fake ending part way through, inspired by Salvador Plascencia's book The People of Paper and this interview with him where he expresses similar sentiments. The highlight of the fake ending for me was this take on the usually rather po-faced notes on the typeface that many books include: A NOTE ON THE TYPE This book, a novel, was set in Serifus Libris, a typeface designed by distinguished Italian engraver Giuseppe Pizzinini (1852-1913). Conceived as a private handkerchief embroidery type to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of his marriage to Countess Johanna Trauttmansdorff of Austria, and modernized before his untimely death by screw press, this type displays the tireless qualities of a master craftsman intent on weaving letter to letter, sentence to sentence, chapter to chapter, to create a sense of cohesion or an illusion thereof. In this way he shaped manifold manuscripts, however unshapely in their nascent form, into acceptable books. An ardent worker, Pizzinini remained steadfast at his beloved printing press even on his (rare) breaks, arranging and rearranging letter blocks with his apprentices to see who could spell the heaviest word. He has been credited as the inventor of the game now commonly known as Scrabble. There is a further strong resonance to the novel in 2025, which Reva mentions in the Rumpus interview: "Some people are turning Trump’s rhetoric about Canada-as-fifty-first-state into a joke. But we need to feel the power of a statement like that because it’s very close to how Putin talked about Ukraine leading up to various stages of aggression. How the border is supposedly artificial, illegitimate, that all Ukrainians want to be part of Russia, all sorts of falsehoods. Trump is saying Canadians want to be part of the US, that it would help our economy and security, that we’re basically one people because of our shared language and history." This could, if at all, only have been a late inclusion in the novel, given Trump's Putinesque rhetoric is reasonably recent (December 2024 originally, and more seriously from around March 2025). But the it is apposite that the novel does indeed contain a passing but important reference to Laura Secord, a Canadian heroine of the fight against previous American acts of aggression. The Canadian hero Laura Secord came to his mind—she who’d waded thirty kilometers through forest and mud and mosquitoes two hundred years ago to warn the British colonies of an American attack, then become immortalized as a chocolate brand. Henry Sandham's painting of Laura Secord, in June 1813, being escorted to the British outpost by Mohawk warriors to warn of the invasion. Laura Secord Milk Chocolates with Hazelnuts A tree snail, preternaturally social, whose scraggly conical shell spiraled to the left instead of the right, rendering breeding impossible with 99 percent of his species. To an already decimated population Lefty was, biologically speaking, useless. She loved him all the more. The real-life 'Lefty the Snail', Jeremy, with two of his 'righty' i.e. clockwised shelled, offspring. There’s this quote by Constantine Tereshchenko, a local visual artist: “Culture is the thinnest layer of moss on the body of human existence. It was shaved off with a bulldozer, now there’s an enormous wound.” Detail from 'Take a rest' by Constantine Tereshchenko Cover design by ChatGPT

Maria Reva's "Endling" is a book so captivating, it demands a second reading. There's a masterful complexity at play, inviting a closer look at how the author weaves everything together. There are comparisons to the work of George Saunders and Percival Everett– and this is a clue to the journey we are in for. Set in 2022 Ukraine, there are multiple plotlines unfolding. Yeva, a struggling scientist, is on a mission to save snail species from extinction. To fund her research, she works in a “romance tour” industry where bachelors seek to meet “traditional” Ukrainian women. It is here she meets two sisters who conspire with her to kidnap thirteen of these bachelors as a protest, a way of drawing attention to the romance tours. We are aware of what turn history is going to take, but the characters all seem to be in denial, even with the threat of Putin’s troops amassing at the border. The narrative is abruptly shattered by the onset of air strikes. The author, Maria Reva, breaks the fourth wall and inserts herself as a character. She questions the feasibility of continuing the story, expressing deep concern for her family, especially her grandfather, who she knows will refuse to evacuate. “I need to keep fact and fiction straight, but they keep blurring together.” Like the best novels and movies, this is an experience worth revisiting. So many facets are skillfully interwoven. There is the “Romeo Meets Yulia” pairing of desperate men seeking to expedite relationships. Yeva is looking to find a mate for Lefty, her snail who may be the end of his species (an “endling"). The kidnapping caper is fraught with almost slapstick missteps... …and then these components are suddenly reshuffled by the carnage of war. A remarkable accomplishment, this blending of humor and tragedy. "This novel turns corners and tables. I love works that are smarter than I am, and this is one.”– Percival Everett, author of Pulitzer Prize winner James Trigger warning: #SnailSensuality. Thank you to Doubleday Books and NetGalley for providing an advance reader copy in exchange for an honest review. #Endling #NetGalley

I’ve had my own near endlings recently with certain beloved family going through transition from familiar home to unexpected compromises. That’s not relevant to the book except that it is a lot about endings. In the novel, it is of a species of snail— a species that the young protagonist, Yeva, studies, and reveres, a snail with a conical shell that spirals to the left, making breeding all but impossible. Lefty, a tree snail, has her heart. Endling refers to the finality of species, from here to nevermore. Yeva is a young malacologist in Ukraine and her work is what gives her the greatest bliss. Humans are difficult, and a passing gaze Yeva had with a past man and snail lover is broken or never sustained. And here we are in early 2022 meeting the odd soldier in the woods. Yeva has met and become involved with a pair of sisters, Nastiya and Solomiya, who are doing what she is doing: “romance tours” in Ukraine, dating men on the marriage market to fund their ambitions and their lives. They aren't looking for a husband. This novel mostly happens in the wild. In the forests of war, the Russians are coming; they’re here. And so it is, when real life and fictional life merge inexplicably. The spirit of these women inspired me to find the parts of me that are most like them--adventurous, unafraid of being confronted. I feel them indivisibly. Maria Reva wrote her characters deeply in the ink, on every page they rose and expanded. The two sisters are participating in the romance tours to gain the attention of their mother, a well-known activist against the romance tours. Two sisters and a scientist thrown into chaos and danger during the throes of war illuminates a tender and tough story about survival. These three women get finger-pointed as sex workers, basically, or sellouts, yet the men are not actually criticized for signing up and participating. There was comedy and absurdity with this clash and dashing of men who were serious wooers. I was delighted to follow the story wherever it went. It wet to Yeva's mobile snail lab in the woods of Ukraine. Delicate yet hardy, these snails are an allegory for the endurance of these women. The more you learn about malacology, the deeper you will love these little creatures, and be rooting for the three woman that dominate the pages. I finished this a month ago, caught up in my own endings, as I said earlier, so any attempt I had to provide a linear reconstruction is dwindling. What remains and resurfaces from the novel are the daily triumphs and defeats that make a life, that honor or threaten existence during wartime and personal conflict. Navigating emotional, psychological, and geologic territory in the midst of a surrounding infantry, and driving a huge, ungainly mobile lab, Yeva, with Nestia and Soloyima, form a bond that begins when Russia invades Ukraine in the late winter of 2022. There are thrills, suspense, action, and if you don’t fall in love with snails and these women then you aren’t opening up your senses with every page. Wordplay and metaphysics, surreal scenes in the forest and just a wisp of romance kept me enthralled. There’s also a dozen or so bachelors in the bowels of the mobile lab; they just went along for the ride. :) While Russian tanks pummel and trample through the border and gateways of Ukrainian cities, the people of this lab on wheels cross borders of knowledge, courage, scientific research, and zones of comfort. Which stories will survive the war, even more than which people? What will the future say about the past, and how does science tell us how to live? What do people of entirely different beliefs and perceptions have to say to each other, and how do we ensure our own species survives? As Yeva decides to chase down another Lefty (special form of tree snail) 900 kilometers away in the midst of gunfire and enemy soldiers, she and her bevy of bachelors and two sisters tread. As Yeva let out an animal roar that disturbed a flock of birds in a nearby bush, she thought of the snail she was tracking, “a lone messenger no larger than her thumbnail carried millions of years of genetic memory. For all she knew, its tree had already been burned down by the invading army. Hope for a species reappeared, and just as quickly disappeared.” Thank you to the Knopf Doubleday publishers for sending me an ARC of Endlings to review. I was slower than a snail to finally post my review, so I suppose I got carried away...

So far, my favorite book of this year. How Maria Reva has made the impossible accessible, that of a metafictional account of three women with distinct goals in Ukraine's early days of invasion, added to a healthy dose of scientific knowledge about of all things, snails, and one woman's attempt to track down a possible mate for what she believes to be the final remaining example of a species, or endling. To make ends meet, Yeva gets a paying job as a prospective Ukrainian wife for American "bachelors" on the prowl for suitable mates. Meeting two sisters using the same method to get the attention of their missing mother who once flashed Putin and has gone underground. Having lured 12 (make that 13) bachelors on an escape room adventure, the three find themselves confronted with the actual Russian invasion. And that's all I'll say about the plot. Reva has managed to incorporate auxiliary characters in short chapters, rounding out events. Highly recommended.

Some books I love, others I become obsessed with — Endling falls into the latter category, which is why I’m not entirely sure I should recommend it to everyone; my connection to it feels very personal. I was completely taken with the quirky story, full of oddball characters, romance tours, interpreters, topless protesters, and even an endangered snail called Lefty. Then Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 — and Maria Reva shifts gears. She ends the fictional narrative (acknowledgements and author bio included) and brings her characters in to help her work through real-world anxieties. The second part of the book is something else entirely. Reva inserts herself into the text through interviews, correspondence, grant applications, and reflections on the moral challenges of writing about a place shaped by real-world trauma that she doesn’t personally live through, yet still feels deeply connected to. I especially loved her point about Ukrainians using dark humour as a form of survival — it resonated with me because we do the same in South Africa. Maybe that’s why I connected with the book more than some readers, who felt parts of the story were farcical. What struck me most was the contrast: some sections almost felt like a fever dream, while others dealt with the author’s personal struggle. The way these two strands come together makes for a reading experience I won’t be forgetting any time soon.

Maria Reva’s Endling is one of my favourite novels of 2025. Reva offers a blisteringly clever, metafictional work that transports the reader to Ukraine, moments just before the Russian invasion in 2022. But what sets Endling apart is its ingenious approach to this often-emotional theme, infusing the novel with dark humour, meticulous research, and a deeply personal perspective, resulting in a whirlwind of emotions and thoughts that both confront and transcend the horrors of war. At first glance, Endling may not seem interesting, with a quirky description of Yeva, an itinerant snail scientist, cataloguing and rescuing and reintroducing endangered species across Ukraine (with Lefty, apparently the last of his kind) while working on a marriage company. Yeva eventually meets Nastia and her sister Sol, working in the same dating agency, until the moment they dare to kidnap foreign bachelors, at the same time as the war breaks out. What Reva manages to convey in her novel is nothing short of brilliance. Yeva is a charming character, and dare say an accurate caricature of a scientist grappling with endless bureaucracy and grant requests to fund her research. From the start, the reader glimpses into Yeva’s life, including her interesting/relatable/not-enough-explored sexuality, and inherent scepticism. “Rumor had it the girl was into God. Of course she was, sad thing. The religious ones made the perfect victims, used to bowing under threat from above. In the past Yeva would have risen to the rescue, but she was done caring.” The chapters alternate between introducing Nastia and Sol, and later, Pasha, a first-generation Ukrainian expatriate living in Canada (here, a parallel between Reva’s character and her nationality). At its heart, Endling is not simply a war novel; although, paradoxically, it is. It is a layered exploration of the aggression of war that causes insufferable and irreparable loss but also rekindles the victims’ resilience and unity in the face of absurdity. Reva’s narrative leads her characters through surreal and poignant moments while they desperately try to save Lefty (and themselves). The endling Lefty serves as an allegory to Ukrainians, overlooked and probably the last of its species (harrowing). There is also a clear message of ecological preservation, and you will be surprised at how important snails are to the environment (and Ukrainians to civilization). I had the opportunity to learn about snails from a Ukrainian professor while she was developing a project using snails as rations to fight malnutrition, and fifteen years later, here I am reading and reviewing a book about a snail researcher! The marriage industry is another important point in this novel, and it parallels numerous other ‘black-marketish’ groups linked to sexual exploitation. However dark these themes are, Reva competently balances the weight of human nature with moments of surprising humour. Reva’s writing is sharp, evocative, experimental and as ironic as COVID-19. She fuses her metafiction with vivid imagery, clever commentary, structure and formatting. To detail all would be a disservice to the reader. The brilliance of Reva’s storytelling lies in its ability to pivot between sharp humour and harrowing truths. I had the most fun reading this novel and connecting the references and inspirations between reality and fiction. A truly mind-bending, atemporal novel. Jokingly, Reva even plays with the reader as she may not be the most reliable author since she keeps correcting her memories about her life’s details, part of the metafictional aspect, smudging wishful thinking and reality (one of my favourite parts of the book). Skilful writing. Maria Reva’s Endling is a masterpiece that deserves a place on every reader’s bookshelf or digital device. Its blending of dark humour, personal insight, irony, environmentalism, feminism, and meticulous research offers a fresh and unforgettable perspective on persistence in the face of the impossible. More than just a war novel, it is a portrayal of resilience, female rage, and humanity. Unlike other literary novels exploring the suffering caused by war, Endling stands out as a beacon of resilience. No more wars! Rating: 5.0/5 Disclaimer: I received an Advance Reader Copy (ARC) of this book from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest and unbiased review. All thoughts and opinions expressed are my own. Quotes might differ slightly from the final printed version: (view spoiler)

This is now the next book I aggressively demand everyone I know or do not know pick up

Wild and unexpected.

Endling; an individual living thing that is the last survivor of its species or subspecies and whose death consequently means the extinction of that species or subspecies. Book 1 of my Booker Prize longlist challenge, each year I dedicate my time to reading all the books on the booker longlist/shortlist so I can attempt to predict the winner. (Key word here is attempt I am yet to successfully predict ANYTHING) This has led me to read some incredible books, pushing me out of my comfort zone & expanding my taste. A full video with my experience will be uploaded to my Youtube Channel Endling was an incredible start, as I was reading this I thought to myself "surely not? Book 1 of the longlist and I already think its my favourite?" I almost called it a day and said "here's the winner guys! No need to read the rest!" Unique, compelling & daring. An encologist in Ukraine is living out of her van, which doubles as an office. Yeva is trying to save the snails, she breeds Endlings to save different endangered species. Pretty cool, right? Well, it doesn't pay great. The process of getting grants and funding is lengthy, arduous & just an overall annoyance. Yeva decides to participate in the controversial "Romance Tours" in Ukraine to self fund her research. Western men fly to Ukraine to date foreign women, women that are "different" & aren't held back by the constraints of "Western Feminism". (Before you ask yourself, yes. These Romance tours unfortunately DO exist. I googled it, the most popular one is legitimately called "Adam & Eva".) Yeva meets a young girl during this experience & they hatch a plan to kidnap some powerful men who participate in these "Romance Tours". The novel ends. A new story begins. But....wait, what? I thought it just ended? This story is incredibly unique in its ability to switch the narrative and become metafictional. We turn to focus on the war in Ukraine, the bombing & tragedy that all began in February of 2014. The suddenness in the switch of narrative is indicative of the complete suddenness that the people felt when there very own home country was destroyed. Maria Reva being one of them, the impact she felt. The hopelessness. You can feel it through the pages. I wont say much more, but you should really give this a go. Endling is unique in its premise & sharp in its execution. I scribbled 7 pages of notes when reading this. I wanted this to be a winner for the Booker. It unfortunately didn't even make the shortlist, a robbery.... (in my opinion)

Most original book I've read this year! Novel about female Ukrainian scientist prevent the extinction of snail species; funds her project meeting Western men looking a more docile(they think) Ukrainian wife. Set during Russian invasion,2022. Author, Ukrainian background but grew up in Vancouver, inserts herself into story trying to convince her grandfather to leave war zone. Hilarious, lots of twists, but symbolic of Ukrainians trying to prevent their own extinction.

Update! This novel was just Longlisted for the Booker Prize! “Endling” by Maria Reva, is my favorite novel of this year so far! The writing is so good in fact, that by page 70 I’d already ordered Reva’s previous book. I didn’t think I needed a novel set at the beginning of the Ukraine war, about endangered snails, and human trafficking in the guise of the international multi billion-dollar “bride machine” or “romance tourism”, that would also make me laugh. BUT I DID! And so do you. Note: an “endling” is the last animal of a species before it becomes extinct. Yeva, a sad loner in an RV trying to rescue endangered snails, she participates in the “bride market” to raise funds for her research. Yeva meets Nastia, who wants to expose and end the “mail order bride” practices that prey on desperate woman “brides” and enable predatory “bachelors”. (Frankly, many of the loser bachelors are exploited as well.) Nastia has an outrageous plan to expose and embarrass the industry, but it necessitates the use of Yeva’s van which is also her snail laboratory. Told with compassion for all her characters, Reva opens our eyes to the darkness of sex tourism and the exploitation of people in crisis. Bonus, you’ll learn some fascinating things about snails and even fall in love with one named Lefty. In a wonderfully “meta” way, the author appears occasionally as a fictional version of herself to explain how difficult it is to write about a war that is still on-going, or as a character to advance the plot. These appearances delighted me! “Endling” is the kind of novel that enthrall me so much that I want to slow it down but has captured me so completely that I can’t. Many many thanks to Penguin Random House for an advanced copy of this wonderful novel.

Occasionally a book comes along and reminds me that serious stories can still be humorous and it is always a delight to be reminded of that. Endling tackles many serious themes and contexts; the war in Ukraine, the sixth extinction, mail order brides and the challenges of emigre life. It’s told with a sensitivity, and humour that for me, reflected the complexity of life in the 21st century. Reva’s metafictional approach added to this complexity in a way I found interesting. This is a novel with a lot going on, which might be too much sometimes, but it’s been some time since I’ve been so compelled to keep reading. Much fun had with this.

How do you write a novel about the Russian invasion of Ukraine without your novel becoming a bleak, despairing portrait of war? Maria Reva's debut, Endling, does so, and in doing so becomes an utterly unique, engaging, masterpiece. It is a work with many surprises, stretches of meta-fiction, sequences which are funny, sequences of despair, and moments which leave you speechless. I certainly finished this novel with the sense I had read something very special. An Endling is the last known member of a species, but Endling never feels like the last of anything, it feels more like the beginning of something which could be quite special. I'm very keen to see what Maria Reva does next.

Reading Endlings (which refers to the last member of a species that goes extinct) is an experience. Don’t read too much about it. Just dive in and let the riptides take you. Trust this writer and this writing. It’s in turns hilarious and honest and almost comic-like but still somehow believable. Maria Reva uses what and how a writer writes to convey the chaos of the war in Ukraine (Reva is Ukrainian and lives in Canada) and ultimately life in general. And the ending! Because you will not understand what I’m about to say unless you’ve read the book, saying it is not a spoiler. What exploded in me like a truth bomb is: let us not squander our privilege to tell the truth, to live in truth, to share the truth—even if the only way to tell it is through fiction and imaginings. Please let us all wake up! It makes sense that this book is blurbed by Percival Everett, my hero and the person I stole from to do my own version of messing with the writer’s act of writing ( The Spectators ). I wonder if Reva used his work too. I wish I could sit silently with the two of them and then laugh uncontrollably.

This book is so full of feeling. It’s a unique story with unexpected circumstances and story arcs. At times it may seem rambling and nonsensical but the last quarter brings it all to light. Don’t let the snail and bride parties trip you up, it’s completely worth reading. Thank you NetGalley for the ARC.

I'm 100% sure this will win Booker 2025

i loved how bold and experimental Endling turned out to be! whoever you are and whatever you like, please give Maria Reva a chance to challenge you.

What a great reading month I had. November I like you. This is a story about a Ukrainian woman and friends driving around Ukraine in a big van making a point about the Ukrainian wedding industry, looking for endangered snails, and trying to outrun the escalating attacks from Russia. There is also a meta fictional element coming from the author who is from Ukraine. Wild story. I loved it.

The doors spun slowly in the air, like leaves spiralling in a gentle wind, forever falling, never to touch the earth. Every time I think of Tan Twan Eng writing The House of Doors (2023), I see a jeweller grinding and polishing every single word, working with patience and dedication, unhurriedly stringing the words onto bracelets of sentences and necklaces of chapters. The effect is stunning. I'm glad I listened to the audiobook — the gentle flow, the melody of this prose is just breathtaking. The House of Doors is partly a biographical novel, based on a few facts of William Somerset Maughm's life. It depicts the creative process, how literature and reality intersect, and the clash between mundane everyday life and the writer's creativity. An interesting coincidence: I was thinking how Colm Tóibín’s route in his biography of Thomas Mann, The Magician, was different, and in the evening, I read in The Guardian his enthusiastic opinion on this book: The House of Doors by Tan Twan Eng is fascinating, engrossing and has given me infinite pleasure. I couldn't agree more. The way Tan Twan Eng deftly weaves in some elements of Maugham's style so that it almost sounds like a pastiche and adds some elements from Maugham's books, some of the realia, is just extraordinary. Since I've started The Casuarina Tree, a collection of Maugham's short stories set mostly in Malaysia, which inspired The House of Doors, I appreciate Tan Twan Eng's talent even more. Not just talent. How much work, time and research must have gone into this novel and, at the same time, it seems so effortless, so understated, so smooth, so subtle. The image of the door, different kinds of doors to be exact, is vital, present even in the title, and often recurs in the novel. I think it symbolizes various kinds of entrapment and imprisonment in which the characters are stuck. Lack of freedom in many senses, including the literal one (Ethel's story). Also in the political and historical aspect, being trapped by conventions, by the unhappy marriage, by the sexual orientation that is not only disapproved of but legally forbidden and prosecuted. But the door is also a new beginning, opening up new possibilities, inviting us to make choices. And that is what this novel is mostly about. There are other important symbols also, for example, the hamsa and the casuarina tree. A meaningful musical leitmotiv reappears also, Reynaldo Hahn’s L’heure exquise. When I finished The House of Doors yesterday, I stayed motionless and silent for half an hour, wondering what had just happened. This novel has an old-fashioned charm; it reads as if it were a classic written in the first half of the 20th century. The sense of time and place is evoked in an amazing way, I mean not only the clothes, interiors, furniture, food, nature, landscapes but also the characters' opinions and beliefs. I like the fact that the author led me astray plotwise on several occasions: for example, in the beginning, I thought this was going to be a sort of remake of Out of Africa in a Malayan setting, even the farm in Africa was mentioned, but it all went in a completely, completely different direction. The House of Doors is a milestone in my reading life: it’s the first audiobook ever I was able to finish. Yes, I know, I'm an ancient audio-bloomer. I had tried different audiobooks before with identical effects: almost immediately I caught my thoughts wandering off far from the subject of the book, even if the plot was theoretically gripping. It didn’t happen this time. I was mesmerized from the first sentence to the last. The novel is read by two narrators: David Oakes, who was perfect, and Louise-Mai Newberry. Unfortunately, her attempts to change the tone and modulation of her voice, depending on who was speaking, felt awkward, especially when she was pretending to be a man or a child. For instance, Willie sounded as if he was suffering from a chronic toothache or lockjaw. Louise-Mai Newberry has a truly lovely voice and it’s such a pity she didn’t let it shine but kept doing odd things with it, sometimes resulting in an unintended caricatural effect. The Leslie part in her interpretation was brilliant though. René Magritte, The Victory, 1939.

A book that most definitely grew on me as the stories in this historical fiction unfolded. The beginning of the story is told by Lesley Hamlyn, an elderly woman living in South Africa having spent most of her life in Penang. A package has arrived which gives Lesley pause to reflect on her life in Malaysia. The second point of view is the voice of W Somerset Maugham, the writer who spent most of his life away from Britain writing his own fiction about people he met on his travels. Maugham, having arrived in Penang to stay with his old friend Robert and wife, Lesley, has been given some dreadful news regarding his finances. He needs stories and ones that will increase his fortune not only to keep his own travels financed but also to keep his assistant, Gerald, by his side. Despite the differences between them Maugham finds himself drawn to Lesley and she finally tells him not only her story but that of a friend whose affair spiralled out of control with devastating consequences. This, for me, was a beautiful piece of historical fiction. I've read several Maugham books and stories over the years and for some reason it never occurred to me that they were loosely based on people he'd met. This book, in a way, is an homage to Maugham. It involves stories of love and devotion - both real and fictional. Tan Twen Eng manages to evoke a feeling of the last century and its attitudes to homosexuality, adultery and male dominance. A wonderful book that I struggled to start but am delighted I persisted with. I look forward to reading more by this author.

The House of Doors is an great story, well-told. These are the kind of books I often enjoy the most. At a surface look, this is absorbing historical fiction; a story inspired by real people (Chinese revolutionary, Sun Yat Sen, and the writer W. Somerset Maugham) and by the short story The Letter, published in Maugham’s collection The Casuarina Tree. This would have been enough for me, but there is more at work here. Eng’s mirroring of Maugham’s style, and use of the voice of the colonist to explore the experiences of life in inter-war Malaysia adds a layer of complexity to how we can read this narrative. Clever, but not in a way that detracts from the story itself. This went straight to the top of my personal Booker shortlist.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ ”A story , like a bird of the mountain , can carry a name beyond the clouds , beyond even time itself .” Three lives intertwine seamlessly, moving between past and present with quiet intensity. At its heart is an accomplished writer on the brink of complete financial ruin, seeking refuge, a barrister whose life offers both escape and inspiration, and a woman carrying the weight of a secret—one that ties her to a revolutionary past and a story that demands to be told. Alongside them is a friend imprisoned for a crime born out of love and desperation. The narrative unfolds with layered elegance, where each thread deepens the emotional core of the story. It’s not just about events, but about the choices that bind people to love, betrayal, and duty. A quietly powerful tale where stories become a refuge—and a reckoning—as truth, memory, and hidden lives unfold behind closed doors. 📓👓 An engrossing, unputdownable read that had me rushing back to it every chance I got.

Let this one slowly wash over you.

2023 Booker Prize Longlist We walked between the rows of painted doors, our shoulders and elbows setting them spinning slowly. Each door pirouetted open to reveal another set of doors, and I had the dizzying sensation that I was walking down the corridors of a constantly shifting maze, each pair of doors opening into another passageway, and another, giving me no inkling of where I would eventually emerge. Set in two main time lines, in tropical Penang and KL a woman reveals a story of her past to William Somerset Maugham. Based around some real characters and events, it's a story within a story. Some of the passages are a reference to Somerset Maugham's works forming more of a shifting maze. I found each time a new door was opened on a new part of the story, fascinating, and the prose is delightful. A fictional world, that, if it ever existed, only existed for few people, for a short period of time, between two world wars and was supported by all the excesses of colonialism. It's perfect historical fiction. All the exquisite hours that we had shared between us - where had they disappeared to? And would we ever hold them in our hands again? My favourite, so far of the ones I've read on the 2023 Booker Prize longlist and one that will be hard to beat.

I loved reading this novel and discussing it with a reading group. The writing is lovely, the setting is exotic, the characters so well-drawn. It packs a lot of story, with the special guest being none other than W Somerset Maugham! It was not known to me before, nor was it widely known in his lifetime, that Maugham was gay. The times when he lived made it actually dangerous for a man in the public eye to come out. In fact, the usual practice was for the man to marry, produce a child or two, and keep his sexuality a secret. The author explicates all this well and carries it over into the plot of the book. Then there are the insights into Maugham’s practices as a writer: how he found his topics, how he rearranged truth into his stories, and how dedicated he was to his writing. Set in Malaysia in the early 1920s, the complex interactions between the British who lived there and the various other cultures mingling among them were shown in numerous vignettes. Chinese history, politics, rebellion added another strong flavor to the story. Then there is the intermingling of a court case involving attempted rape, murder and conviction of a woman. All of this was as elegantly arranged as Maugham himself might have done. Excellent read!

For me a literary masterpiece! A novel that reads like a classic. The author has masterfully captured the atmosphere of the times depicted, of the characters and the events as well. He painted a portrait of Maugham revealing him as an intriguing personality (his obvious talent, his scandalous retelling of existing people in his novels). Beautiful descriptions of Penang with its highly fascinating history have kept me absorbed throughout the novel. Faithful to the high society, his evocation of hypocrisy and the danger of homosexuality give the novel an excellent psychological insight of this era. Excellent writing! I did not know the author, and now I want to read all his books! Highly recommended! I received a complimentary ARC of this novel from NetGalley and I am leaving voluntarily an honest review.

I read this again for a book group and I love it just as much. It has a dreamy quality like the book is on opium. It’s not often we read a novel about W. Somerset Maugham in 1921 in Malaysia. This one is beautiful. It’s narrated by Maugham (called Willie in the book) and Lesley, wife of Robert, English couple who’ve lived in Panang, Malaysia for many years. Willie and his secretary/lover stay with them for 2 weeks in 1921 and he gets some juicy stories for his book, The Casuarina Tree. Lesley tells him 2 stories from 10 years ago in her past that we don’t really get resolved until we jump forward at the very end to 1947. So, several threads, several time periods, but it’s not difficult to keep track. Interesting things: chapters alternate between Willie’s POV written in 3rd person and Lesley’s written in 1st person. Good study of colonial relationships between Brits and Malaysians and Chinese in Malaysia. Interesting info about Sun Yat Sen’s time in Malaysia.

Another exceptional novel from Tan Twan Eng. I adored The Garden of Evening Mists and I'm so glad he's managed it again with The House of Doors! Set in Penang in the 1920s, the story revolves around Robert and Lesley Hamlyn, a well-to-do couple at the peak of high society, who welcome Robert's old friend the writer Somerset "Willie" Maugham, and his lover Gerald, to stay with them. Robert warns Lesley to be careful of what she tells Willie who is known for soaking up other people's stories and using them in his novels. But as Lesley begins to warm to Willie over the course of two weeks, she starts to see this as an opportunity to tell her story. From Chinese revolutionaries, to secret love affairs, a murder trial, and someone who changed Lesley's life forever. Lesley would rather her story be written down, preserved for hundreds of years, than fade away to nothing. But at what cost? If you've read Tan Twan Eng before, it'll be no surprise for you to hear that his writing is as lush and beautiful as ever. His descriptions of Penang, its landscape, people and culture are just exceptional. And the story was just so captivating I never wanted to put it down. Highly recommended!

I was awed by the majesty of Richard Powers' enormous, thought-provoking and imaginative novel “The Overstory”. Even though I felt some of the interlinking stories worked better than others, I was so compelled and impressed with how that book engaged with environmental activism in such a dynamic way. His new novel “Bewilderment” also addresses climate change and animal extinction but in a more concentrated story. It concerns Theo, an astrobiologist who seeks to demonstrate a complex method of searching for life on other planets, and his nine-year-old son Robin, a lively and unpredictable boy who cares passionately about the environment. As we follow their lives over the course of a troubled year, Theo struggles to care for his emotionally erratic son and allows him to be used in an experimental trial to stabilize the boy's behaviour. It's a method of behavioural training which inspires a surprising connection to his deceased mother Alyssa, an environmental lobbyist who tragically died a couple of years prior to the events in this novel. The combination of these elements forms an astoundingly moving and urgent story. One of the most strikingly effective aspects of this novel is the dialogue between father and son which is heartfelt and convincingly realistic. Robin's passionate earnestness and straightforward idealistic logic constantly threatens to overwhelm Theo who is all too aware of the complex workings of their society which is tragically regressing under a populist leader. Robin's dialogue is italicised while other characters' speech is in quotes and this typographical distinction allows his words to chime with a moving innocence. It reminded me of the intimate way the father and son converse in Cormac McCarthy's tremendous novel “The Road” as their exchanges convey a patient exchange of ideas and touching emotional bond. Part of Theo's job is to speculate what sort of life might develop on other planets given the specific environmental conditions of these distant worlds. His method of stabilizing his son's erratic moods is to imaginatively transport them to the potential living planets he's devised. These sections convey a wonderful intimacy between parent and child. Read my full review of Bewilderment by Richard Powers on LonesomeReader I also had the enormous pleasure of interviewing Richard about this novel and you can watch our discussion here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VdFU1nNCqwE

He rehearsed memories endlessly, and every repetition of the details made him happier. When he finished a book he liked, he’d start it again immediately, from page one. So having read and loved (let alone liked) an ARC of this book ahead of the Booker longlist announcement (on which I was rightly sure it would feature) it seems appropriate to start it again on its print publication a week after its shortlisting for the 2021 Booker Prize My views on the book on a second read (and also having read a number of other reviews both here and in the press - at the time I originally reviewed I think there were at best a handful of reviews anywhere) are to further strengthen (and confirm) my views on both the book's tremendous strengths and its clear weakenesses. But my overall view is to echo the view of Aly on mankind No novel is perfect - but this one falls short so beautifully ORIGINAL REVIEW They share a lot, astronomy and childhood. Both are voyages across huge distances. Both search for facts beyond their grasp. Both theorize wildly and let possibilities multiply without limits. Both are humbled every few weeks. Both operate out of ignorance. Both are mystified by time. Both are forever starting out. The latest novel from the author of Booker shortlisted “The Overstory” and one which I feel will appeal strongly to the many fans of that book. Whereas the etymology of Bewilder implies being lured into the wild and left astray and confused as a result, the sense of this book is of an encounter with the wild (both wilderness on earth and the wilderness of outer space) as a way to make sense of our own world and to think of the implications for how we should change the current trajectory of our society. The novel is also partially a rewrite of a classic science fiction short story - in 2018 after the success of "The Overstory” Powers said he was looking at the genre of science fiction for continuing his writing ”But when you’re asking what would it take to effect the transformation in consciousness that humans need, the only people who ask these questions are the sci-fi writers.” The book is set in what is best perhaps described as a very near future dystopian extrapolation of 2021 USA – a world in which an (unnamed) Trump remains in power and turning his rhetoric into hard action and where various interrelated climate, species-extinction and human-pollution crises are heading inexorably to a tipping point. The book is narrated in first person by Theo Byrne (his surname he notes derived from Bran – the Irish for raven). After a slightly wild youth, Theo found his métier in astrobiology and the love of his life in Aly(ssa), a fiercely effective and committed environmental (particularly animal right) lobbyist and activist, with a love of birdwatching as a hobby. He thinks of her as “compact and planetary” (after a Neruda Sonnet). As an aside the Sonnet is Number XVI which opens (this is not quoted in the novel) I love the handful of the earth you are. Because of its meadows, vast as a planet, I have no other star. You are my replica of the multiplying universe. And this I think is very important to the plot (and hence I am sure Power’s inclusion of it) as Theo works in the search for exoplanetary life. His specialty is around the analysis of spectroscopic signals from planets which reveal the gases in its atmosphere. In particular he models theoretical life bearing planets and the gases they may admit (so that planetary searchers can know likely signals to search for ). In a clear nod to Aly’s birdwatching his work is referred to as the Byrne Alien Field Guide – “A taxonomic catalog of all kinds of stereoscopic signatures collated to the stages and types of possible extraterrestrial life that might make them”. For Theo the real driver is to understand if life is almost nowhere (with Earth a genuinely unique case) or almost everywhere – and to understand why some people for religious or other reasons would actually much prefer the former to be the case. At the time of the novel, Aly has died in a car crash (seemingly avoiding an opossum, but killing herself and her unborn child) and the bereft and hapless although well-intentioned Theo is left alone to bring up their son Robin (named after his parent’s “national” bird – which they used to signify the beauty in the everyday in their marriage). Robin is an unusual child – best I think described by Theo in a passage which I think gives a good sense of Theo and his life views as well as Robin, and is also important to the plot of the book). I never believed in the diagnoses the doctors settled on my son. When a condition gets three different names over as many decades, when it requires two subcategories to account for completely contradictory symptoms, when it goes from nonexistent to the country’s most commonly diagnosed childhood disorder in the course of one generation, when two different physicians want to prescribe three different medications, there’s something wrong. The suggestions were plentiful, including syndromes linked to the billion pounds of toxins sprayed on the country’s food supply each year. His second pediatrician was keen to put Robin “on the spectrum.” I wanted to tell the man that everyone alive on this fluke little planet was on the spectrum. That’s what a spectrum is. I wanted to tell the man that life itself is a spectrum disorder, where each of us vibrated at some unique frequency in the continuous rainbow. Then I wanted to punch him. I suppose there’s a name for that, too. . The link between this spectrum and Theo's own work with spectroscopic signals is another neat one linking Theo's work to a member of his family (here Robin). The book starts around Robin’s 9th birthday – with him struggling at school, Theo takes him on a camping trip in the wild – there the two stargaze, remember Aly and say and discuss her “secular prayer” (May All Sentient Beings Be Free From Suffering), play Wildlife bingo and discuss Fermi’s Paradox I lay in our tent that night, thinking how Robbie had spent two days worrying over the silence of a galaxy that ought to be crawling with civilizations. How could anyone protect a boy like that from his own imagination, let alone from a few carnivorous third-graders flinging shit at him? Alyssa would’ve propelled the three of us forward on her own bottomless forgiveness and bulldozer will. Without her, I was flailing. They play a game Theo has invented as a distraction for Robin – whereby he describes an imaginary but plausible life-bearing planet, hugely different from Earth and our own definition of life, and the two travel there together in their imaginations and read a classic science fiction short story “Flowers of Algernon” (which story effectively gives the novel its plot). When they return home, Robin, who struggles to understand others and to control his temper, is suspended after an incident with a classmate the authorities put pressure on Theo to allow some form of chemical treatment for Robin. Desperate to avoid this, Theo approaches an old friend of Aly’s, a scientific researcher who is experimenting with the (real-life) technique of Decoded Neurorfeedback – in simple terms training subjects to control their emotions and thinking patterns by learning how to reproduce neural activity with visual aids; and particularly by learning to reproduce the activity of other subjects with desired traits. Theo and Aly were guinea pigs at an early stage and once Robin shows an aptitude and enthusiasm for reproducing the neural patterns, the researcher uses Aly’s thought patterns to train him to deal with his condition. Initially these inspire Robin to turn his frustration and anger at the human race’s terrible treatment the other sentient beings with which it shares a home, into effective campaigning – inspired partly by his father (who is lobbying against government plans to cut off the funding for exoplanet researches), partly by a Greta Thunberg type character who Robin adores but mainly by his mother (who increasingly he believes is behind him in his head). The trajectory of what happens to Robin though is tragically predictable from the seed-story. The book has the same strengths which made “The Overstory” much loved. It has the same motivations and world-view (here perhaps more of a worlds-view) as “The Overstory”, the same rather folksy setting and writing, the same embrace of the wonder of nature, the same rather cynical view of mankind, the same huge range of ideas, and the same passionate and didactic presentation of them. If there is a difference it is in the length – whereas Overstory was rather sprawling, this can feel sometimes like some ideas are picked up and discarded. I do also feel the book has many of the weaknesses of “Overstory” also. None of Robin, Aly or Theo are particularly convincing or rounded characters – feeling perhaps a little more caricatures functioning as plot-vehicles. Some of this of course is due to Theo as a filter, idolising the memory of Aly (despite a number of clear counter-indications) and supporting his motherless and troubled son even in his excesses (Theo's reaction when Robin smashes a boy in the face with a flask is particularly troubling). For a book which is fascinated with the life of other terrestrial life forms and the possibility of extra-terrestrial life and particularly how both differ fundamentally from mankind – the book is spectacularly uninterested in (or seemingly aware of) any Earth countries or human cultures other than the USA. For a book which explores spectroscopy and tell tale colour signatures - everything is seen very much in black and white. Those who disagree with Theo's world view, disagree (at least as seen by Theo) from either ignorance, evil, greed or prejudice. The concentration is on emphasising difference rather than using empathy to seek to break down divisions. Perhaps wittingly one of the imaginary planets that Theo invents is Geminus where the capture of the planet's rotation by its star has lead to a planet divided into halves of light and dark and "the minds of the day failed to find the night intelligible, while night's minds couldn't comprehend the day. They shares only one bit of common knowledge: life could never exist "over the edge" - and there is little attempt her to travel "over the edge" of US politics. Theo I think knows that this is a weakness of his - an early on reflects how Aly was able to deal with conflict much better with her mantra "Nobody's perfect ... But, man, we all fall short so beautifully" I also did not like at all the anti-Christian barbs. In addition to have a book which castigates those in America anti-science on areas like climate change and astronomy but then with a main character who effectively lines up as anti the medical profession is a little troubling given current anti-vaxxer debates. Theo's views on how to treat Robin's condition - demonising the education, care and medical professions in favour of taking his own rather reckless decision on an experimental treatment - seems to be remarkably similar to how Trump dealt with his own COVID - except that Trump's gut feel turned out to have better long run results. But the strong points of the novel still made up for these weaknesses in my view. I was reminded too of some other novels. Like Salman Rushdie’s “Quichotte” the protagonists read a very famous (and IRL) science fiction short story (actually its two short stories in Quichotte) and the plot of the book then explicitly follows that short story. And both books are in part a homage to science fiction and how this much-maligned genre tells us something about our world today and particularly our future. (The author in an interview on the Booker website says it "pays homage to both contemporary and classic speculative fiction writers including Daniel Keyes, Ursula LeGuin, Olaf Stapledon, Alan Lightman, Italo Calvino, and Kim Stanley Robinson I had strong overtones of Max Porter’s “Lanny” (maybe even Jesse Ball’s “Census”) in the special child revealing the truths about the absurdities and cruelties of the adult world - the author himself in the Booker site interview talked of the book as partly "a novel about the anxiety of family life on a damaged planet" and name checks Margaret Atwood, Barbara Kingsolver, Evan Dara, Don Delillo, and Lauren Groff. And the focus on absence/disappearance (here a mother, a pet dog, and of course the Fermi lack of alien contact) as a metaphor for species extinction is a strong echo of Richard Flanagan’s “Living Sea of Waking Dreams”. The author's overall take on the book For me, the astrobiology and neuroscience in Bewilderment—two fields undergoing rapid and dramatic revolutions—are really ways into much older and more intimate human passions. Beneath the immense technologies and intellectual achievements of those pursuits are some primal questions built into human beings: Is life a one-off fluke, or is it inevitable and ubiquitous in the universe? What is consciousness? Can we know what it is like to be someone or something else? How do we land back on Earth and make a home here among the neighbours? Can we find contentment despite our bottomless hunger? How do we surrender the increasingly isolated self to the terrifying diversity of “endless forms most beautiful?” All these questions form the time-honoured heart of fiction. Bewilderment is Plato’s Allegory of the Cave. I’ve just updated the fable for the age of pandemics, exoplanets, and mass extinction. Overall I found this a very impressive book - it stimulated my mind, challenged my conscience and moved my heart. One final comment – just as with “Overstory” Powers seems allergic in the text to any form of afterword/references/acknowledgement so a few links which may prove useful https://www.sdfo.org/gj/stories/flowe... https://www.pnas.org/content/111/35/1... https://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencete... https://exoplanets.nasa.gov/ My thanks to Penguin Random House, William Heinmann for an ARC via NetGalley

Powers has written a tender allegory that drifts from despair to melancholy and then back again into the dark. The setting is either the near future, or a parallel world that echoes our social perils and ecological failures. Powers is whip smart, finding all kinds of intricate connections and clever observations that magnify the theme and ignite curiosity. The story feels honest and authentic. Written in first person, it often felt like someone describing their actual experiences. The plot follows a widowed astrobiologist and his troubled, neurodiverse nine-year-old son. Theo, the father is researching what life might exist on other worlds and how we might detect that life. He is also just barely keeping his son, Robin, out of a system of therapists and psychoactive drugs that he worries will do more harm than good. He signs up for an experimental treatment, that makes use of his dead wife’s brainwave patterns to retrain his son’s brain to help him be resilient and control his emotions. It uses fMRI with a graphical feedback loop to allow Robin to learn how to control his mind. Before long the boy blossoms, excelling in artistic ability, advancing intellectually, and finding the emotional stability he was lacking. In other words, he becomes a little buddha. Intertwined with this plot, Powers alternates between beautiful observations of our planet’s biodiversity, and through a game with his son, fascinating vignettes of creative exploration of what life might look like on other worlds. The ending is poignant, but disheartening. Hint: Power’s deliberately references “Flowers for Algernon” by Daniel Keyes as a parallel to this tale. I saw his son, Robin, as a symbol of Earth. Full of wonder, but precariously balanced on the edge of tragedy. There are remote seeds of hope, but the odds are stacked vastly against him, and us. Powers describes the dangers our world faces; loss of habitat, species extinction, pollution, and yes, climate change through the eyes of this special child, but offers little chance for salvation. The best we get, it seems, is to appreciate what we had and what is left before it’s all gone. Still, there is a great love of nature and of the universe in this story and I hope Powers can find more to be optimistic about in his future works. A bittersweet, delicate weave of science, fiction, and philosophy that exposes the beauty and the likely tragedy of our lives, our world, and our universe.

Sell your cleverness and buy Bewilderment This was a beautiful, moving, heartfelt story about an astro-biologist and his son after the tragic loss of his wife. I fell in love with his characterization of his late wife and how he idolized her. It is assumed that he is unreliable, and possibly omitting or altering facts unintentionally. This is all addressed through discussing the nuances of how the human brain works and retains information, and how memory is often skewed from reality. His profession as an astro-biologist is a huge part of how he sees and relates to the world, his late wife and his son. He describes her as compact but planetary and uses many beautiful planetary metaphors. The character of his son Robin on the autism spectrum is a a genuine portrayal, and he felt real to me. He is described as a pocket universe more complex on the inside than the whole universe with millions of galaxies. Life itself is a spectrum disorder, where each of us vibrated at some unique frequency in the continuous rainbow. What I think I love most about this is how the themes of bewilderment and curiosity relate to not just the dying the world around us, but also our emotional states. A constant state of surprise and bewilderment is liken to ecstasy. The opposite feeling would be apprehension--the feeling which most often came up for the father as he struggled parenting his son. At times he seemed almost perfect, very involved and loving father. But he also does not leave the worst of it, and the unimaginable sorrow of raising a special child while grieving his mother. Through a series of clinical trials, Robin is able to retain some of his mom's memories and experiences an improvement, especially in the form of his neurons wiring and firing at increased rates. This increased internal connectivity is demonstrated through his relationships with people and animals. He cares very much for the environment, so much that he has violent fits over animal protection. Curiosity is good for the mind...and spirit! When the clinical Programs are no longer funded by a new government regime, father and son must re-imagine how to get themselves into a state of bewilderment again. Just as his wife so excelled at feeling excitement over tiny curiosities, they too, must find a way to re-create this state for his son's survival. The darker it gets the better I can see out the sides of my eyes Overall, this novel very beautifully demonstrates the power of bewilderment. So often as people we try to find concrete answers for things and the innate need to classify and categorize often gets in the way of our happiness. Thrusting ourselves into new territory regardless if it's confusing, doing it anyway, allowing ourselves to be bewildered without having anything figured out. Allowing yourself to be a mystery unsolved, and that's the beauty of it. This was a brilliant book, brilliantly written. Richard Powers has a way of shining a light into the darkest of corners. None of us are perfect, but we all fall short so beautifully

A story of what it is to be human, and the bewilderment of life Richard Powers brings us into the lives of Theo Byrne, a professor and research astrobiologist soon after the loss of his loving wife. Grieving, he reflects on the impact she made on his life and their son, due to her advocacy for slowing the extinction of animals, and compassion for all humanity. And while Theo suffers, his 7 year old son Robin grows unruly, difficult and angered. Like most forward thinking scientists, he reaches out to a colleague who's been developing a ground breaking behavior technology. Passing the evaluation tests easily, and knowing the approach was game-like, Robin becomes part of the field trial. Over the course of the story the reader learns of life's inner and outer Universes which surprise, challenge and delight. As I reflect on the book's impact, the only word to describe it is bewildered. Powers touches our hearts and minds by reminding us of our humanity, importance of love and all living things, as well as how society fails to see the relevance. Written in short, poignant chapters using italics for Robin's dialog, its thought provoking, inspirational, evocative, and enlightening in ways never imagined. Having read thousands of books over the course of life, this one left me breathless and in a state of bewilderment. Rest assured, if you decide to read it, it could do the same for you.

Recently I had a wonderful conversation about reading with my brother, a classics professor who taught himself Ancient Greek and Sanskrit when he was a teenager. My brother quoted something Stephen King had written about how writing enables telepathy. "Yes! Yes!" I erupted. "It's the energy conveyed by words on a page." And then we shifted into what my brother feels when he reads ancient "first" languages. I surmised that this could be his path to enlightenment. I lost count of the times in Bewilderment that Richard Powers propelled me into numinous wordless contemplation. It usually happened at the very end of a chapter, a last line blowing me into a sense of something way larger than puny little humans. Whether it had to do with the randomness of events causing miraculous things, or the notion that we Earthlings are a Zoo experiment by beings so evolved that the only way they can have fun is by watching our primitive developing, or a nine-year-old boy explaining that in a neurofeedback experiment he controlled a dot on a screen by imagining that the dot was drawing him, or a line that repeated the transcendent message of Powers's The Overstory —that in the event that we humans succeed in destroying life as we know it on Earth, "Don't worry, Dad. We might not figure it out. But Earth will. (182)"—over and over my brain exploded in such a feeling of both awe and gratitude that I don't know how to describe it. Is this Powers (perfect name) telepathizing enlightened energy in a heartbreaking, heart-opening story about a father's love for his son and both of their love and awe of life itself? I don't know. But boy, did I love it.

I loved the astronomy and biology aspects of this book; it scratched that inner nerd itch. Powers is tackling several objectives with this novel, and the most obvious is our relationship with Earth and our waning curiosity to learn more about our world and the worlds all around us. The most powerful aspect of the book, however, is when Powers addresses our interconnectedness with each other; even those who are no longer with us. The father and son relationship between Theo and Robin is a very moving one. Maybe I am just a little too susceptible to such feelings since I have a four year old son who brings me joy like no one else can. Whatever the case, Powers is a wonderful writer who knows how to pull all the right heart strings, all encased in beautiful writing, and this latest novel was a reading experience I am very grateful to have had.

Richard Powers writes us into other orbits, and then settles us back down to Earth--no, to galaxy, with his newest story. In the narrative, you cross thresholds of the past and the dead, and, in a lab, record for a future over the deceased one’s past thoughts. Then you submit it as a treatment instead of psychoactive medications. What if you had a credible method for communicating with the past, in order to treat mental illness? To clarify, you would be able to slip inside of previously recorded emotional states that Alyssa (now deceased) experienced years ago. Alyssa’s excitement state, which had produced a neural image designed by the specialized team, would be a new memory to burrow inside nine-year-old Robin, the new trainee, and be an embedded event. He would learn to be at and in that moment, an interbeing, through a process called Decoded Neurofeedback. Visual cues and prompts are sent by the program’s mediation system to the trainees. Eventually, Robin adopts Alyssa’s imaged emotions. The mapped one doesn’t need to be dead, but in this novel, she is. She’s Robin’s mother. Theo is his father, an astrobiologist who has taught Robin how to create other planets and to explore them together. Their favorite challenge seems to be the liminal states between light, shadow, and night. They mourn what is or is becoming extinct and feel sorrow for life forms that have stopped working together. “Until it’s exciting and fun and ecstatic to think that everything else has agency and is reciprocally connected we’re going to be terrified and afraid of death, and it’s mastery or nothing.” In an interview with Richard Powers a few months after the release of his Pulitzer prize-winning THE OVERSTORY, he said those words, which gives me the chills; I discovered it after reading BEWILDERMENT. It aptly applies to the themes. BEWILDERMENT is about the interconnectedness and the dependency (and reciprocity) of collectively existing, or inter-existing. If we are all connected, now and through all time, then we can restrict death to a rigid temporal definition, and glide past it to arrive at a past neural state. In this story of loss, saturated with gravitas, we gradually apprehend Powers’ use of eternal interbeingness, a concept first introduced by a Vietnamese Zen Buddhist monk, Thich Nhat Hanh, in the 20th century. If everyone is subject to interbeing, there is an unbroken chain or nexus of factors all connected--the past to the present, and then to the future. In the narrative, neural images are maps of emotional states, especially the most excitable ones. Your emotions can be data points that take up space in a diagram. In BEWILDERMENT, these emotional states reflect the Emotion Wheel. To capture what is already mapped, you go into an Empathy Machine. (Just think about how Richard Powers--if you’ve read him--would weave in an Empathy Machine to his Renaissance brain). Theo’s son, Robin, is on the cusp of turning ten, and both of them are grieving the sudden and unexpected loss of their wife/mother. She is beloved, even idealized by Theo and Robin, but she also deserves her glory, she earned it with dedication to her causes, directing a ten state regional NGO. Robin is firmly entrenched on the autism spectrum, is highly intelligent and talented in drawing, and has a severe mood disturbance which can lead to impulsive aggression that gets him kicked out of school. Health and Human Services will come after Theo if he doesn’t get Robin (on meds) to curb his behavior. Theo seeks help from a prizewinning, celebrated neuroscientist and old friend of his wife. Theo is also jealous of Martin Currier for his accomplishments, one that includes an experiment done some years ago with Theo and Alys, mapping emotions from the Wheel that Currier told them to access. The exercise left Theo at the time with more questions than answers about his typically transparent but at times inscrutable wife. The story is about empathy and, in Robin case, finding more ways to keep his mood stable via Alyssa’s neural map. Robin could penetrate Alyssa’s prior recorded emotions. In the present time, you use Alys’ past to give yourself hope for the future. BEWILDERMENT is a cosmos of mixed-genre science fiction family drama. Psychology and sci-fi have secured a timeless place together via Richard Powers. Death is the darkness that swallows everything from that point on. Powers pushes that concept--death and temporality--by integrating interbeing to his narrative. The interbeing goes beyond the emotional mapping—Theo and Robin have been “visiting” other planets, suns, and astral places for quite a long while. If it sounds too sentimental on its face, it won’t be when he tells the story. In fact, the author’s linguistic vastness brought me to dimensions created by the fusion of language and drama. When I started the book, thankfully sent to me by Norton, I expected to finish in a few days. However, I found myself probing deeper and deeper by looking up various extinct life that Robin drew and also cosmological concepts. It may have slowed down my reading time but it didn’t reduce my pleasure. This is a book you eat in small bites, like a rich gourmet dinner; you don’t gobble it in quick gulps. Robin, Theo, and Alyssa will stay with me for a very long time. Any book by Powers is a winner.

4.5 Shortlisted for Booker Prize 2021 Powers' Bewilderment is a wonder of a novel. It's superb, thought-provoking, ideas spinning Powers at close to his best. He again returns to the themes of climate change and humanity's increasingly fraught and dysfunctional relationship with our planet and its other living inhabitants from his previous The Overstory (also Booker shortlisted). This time around though Powers also explores themes of our understanding of what life forms might be out there beyond earth in all those swirling light filled galaxies. The prose teems with gorgeous descriptions of the diverse forms through which life is expressed, both terrestrial and extra-terrestrial. The book is set in a near-future, contemporary USA led by a Trump-like (or perhaps an even worse unnamed successor) President presiding over and stoking deep societal divisions, while various climate related catastrophes play out: the sense is that humanity's time might be up as we head over that much feared tipping point. The central characters are Theo Byrne (a widower) and his 9 years son, Robin. They are both grieving the death of their wife and mother, Aly. Theo is a research astrobiologist searching for exoplanetary life through spectroscopic signals from planets. Robin is neuro-divergent (Theo resists experts perhaps well-intentioned efforts to label this). There's a beautiful passage that captures this and speaks to me personally as my daughters are neuro-divergent and have wonderfully, creative perspectives on life that I'm privileged to experience a little when they share it with us: "I never believed in the diagnoses the doctors settled on my son. When a condition gets three different names over as many decades, when it requires two subcategories to account for completely contradictory symptoms, when it goes from nonexistent to the country’s most commonly diagnosed childhood disorder in the course of one generation, when two different physicians want to prescribe three different medications, there’s something wrong. The suggestions were plentiful, including syndromes linked to the billion pounds of toxins sprayed on the country’s food supply each year. His second pediatrician was keen to put Robin 'on the spectrum.' I wanted to tell the man that everyone alive on this fluke little planet was on the spectrum. That’s what a spectrum is. I wanted to tell the man that life itself is a spectrum disorder, where each of us vibrated at some unique frequency in the continuous rainbow. Then I wanted to punch him. I suppose there’s a name for that, too." A beautiful thread running through the book is various metaphors and images of the diverse spectrum across which life and our experiences of it are expressed. Robin often struggles to understand others and has challenging interactions with children at his school. Theo is faced with a difficult decision about possible interventions to medicate Robin. A very different intervention is arrived at though in the form of an experimental technique in mind-emotion training. A former scientific researcher friend of his wife, (they shared an interest in birdwatching), invites Robin to participate in an experiment with Decoded Neurofeedback. Participants are trained to control their emotional responses and thoughts in response to stimuli. They seek to follow and mimic the neural pattern activity of others who can exhibit and reproduce 'healthy' patterns (such as calmness, empathy etc.) . The model Robin is seeking to follow was captured from a brain pattern recording of his mother's previous attempts at this experiment. He's very adept at this, quickly able to follow and replicate the model-patterns. To such an extent that he becomes something of a celebrity. This practice with neurofeedback also changes and calms Robin's response to those around him, including previous interactions that proved to be challenging and upsetting. He discovers a kind of Zen, almost meditative calm, and deep sense of connection to others. This further heightens his deep belonging (oneness) with the natural world, which definitely has Buddhist resonances in Powers' descriptions. There's also a sense in which Robin experiences an almost mystical connection with his dead mother. The book is interspersed with some delightful and thought provoking sci-fi like sections in which Theo and Robin play an imaginative game of visiting planets and extrapolating their life forms, here drawing on Theo's scientific pursuits and Robin's passion for the natural world. Some of these passages are quite stunningly creative in their speculations. It all appears to be something of a shared escape from the difficulties the father and son are confronting in their lives. But its not only that. The speculative world-building are also an experiment in solving the Fermi Paradox—if the universe is really big and really old, surely intelligent life would have evolved more than once, so where is everybody? Thought these sections and the novel overall there's references to speculative fiction including to Flowers for Algernon and the work of Ted Chiang, Liu Cixin etc. The empathy and imagination on display here as they share stories about these life forms for me is a larger metaphor, a device, for the kinds of mindsets and dispositions that might just save us: a deep and abiding interest in and respect for life in all its myriad otherness. A striving to understand and connect beyond human exceptionalism / anthrocentirsm (definite connection here to Liu Cixin and other recent speculative fiction authors). Powers' is at his finest when exploring such themes. He uses the novel form (as he has done throughout his writing career) as grand thought-experiments, seeking ways to help us see and think differently. It's this quality and experience I get from reading a Powers' book that I prize. Powers' hope (as voiced perhaps by Theo thinking about the value of his scientific search of life on other planets) is that such endeavours might "increase humanity's collective wisdom and empathy". But Powers' novels tend not to hold out much hope for humanity achieving this. There's a strong tragic somewhat bleak undercurrent through this work, seen especially through Robin's eyes as he despairs at the adult world around him and its almost total failure to recognise let alone meaningfully address unfolding climate crisis events. A weakness in Bewilderment though (as with most of Powers' novels) is that while his characters are interesting and well-written, they generally aren't particularly complex or nuanced. They don't come in the kinds of rich textures and shades that he so capably uses to describe for example imagined planets and the birds, insects, trees, fish, flowers and so on of our natural environment. Characters tend to be vehicles to propel and advance the ideas that he's pursuing and they seldom offer more complex takes on these ideas. In this case there's clearly those who 'are woke' and get climate change and can see and those on the other side. There's very little effort to understand the complex socio-political contexts and forces that may have shaped these differences. For example, the political situation is reduced to a background emerging dictatorial type Trump figure. For me this is a weakness. Although on this occasion the portrayal of the father-son relationship is sensitively conveyed, but at moments perhaps veering into sentimentality. But I like my literature that explores and takes on these issues to be more nuanced. Nevertheless, I still give it a 4.5 because when Powers goes full tilt with his novelistic ideas building, I'm strapped in for the ride.

Shortlisted Man Booker 2021 Longlisted National Book Award 2021 He wanted drama and showdown and righteous calls for justice from concerned citizens. Instead, he got America (p.125). Bewilderment takes place in the not too distant future and centers on the relationship between recently widowed astrobiologist Theo Byrne and Robin, his nine-year-old son. Robin's mother, Aly, an animal rights lawyer, died in a car accident when Robin was seven. Currently, Robin is having anger issues at school, and within the last few months, he has received three different diagnoses, autism, ADHD, and OCD. Given the range of diagnoses, Theo is hesitant to put his son on psychoactive drugs. A few years earlier, Theo and Aly had contributed brainwaves to an experimental database. So Theo decides to allow Robin to try a new non-chemical experimental brain treatment, Decoded Neurofeedback, aka Dec Nef, which will channel his mother's brain waves to help him stay calm and enhance his emotional intelligence. The novel traces Robin's development while undergoing this new treatment, his growing awareness of environmental decay, and his youthful attempts to draw attention to the earth's demise. It also chronicles the pressures father and son face once the media gets hold of the story. If I could have voted for this year's Booker winner, I would have chosen Bewilderment. I liked the winner, The Promise, and from the perspective of technique, it is a more finely crafted novel. However, Bewilderment was the book from the shortlist that grabbed me and gnawed at me. Maybe it was because the dystopian pessimism reflected my feelings, or perhaps it was the father-son relationship and the father's struggle to deal with his son's growing awareness of the planet's demise that moved me. Nevertheless, I found it a powerful read.

Well, that destroyed me. I think the only way this book is truly going to work for you is if you’re completely invested in the father/son relationship. You just have to be. And that emotional connection is how this book is going to yank at your heartstrings, have you aching, leave you ruined, and make its potent points. When it comes to his themes and beliefs, Powers can be heavy handed at times (okay, a lot of the time), but at the core, this is about the unconditional love a father has for his son. Would you do anything to protect your child, to shelter your child from the harshness, unfairness, and uncertainty of the world around them? This book is an update of a sci-fi classic (Powers pretty much hints at this in the text) and because I’d read that book, I was feeling a bit apprehensive all the way throughout. Also, after last week’s terrifying climate change update, this book hit much harder. It’s a case of reading the right book at exactly the right time. A total emotionally challenging experience.

Q: Everything about her felt familiar, as if I’d been briefed on the local customs in advance. Her mouth puckered in permanent near-interruption, halfway between a- and be-mused. (c) Q: She felt like a prediction, a thing on its way here. Compact but planetary. (c) Q: Maybe there’s a planet out there where amphibians are as good as it gets. (c) Q: ... no one ever lost an audience with charismatic megafauna. (c) Q: It takes a certain kind of strangeness to hear the cosmic symphony and to realize that it was both playing and listening to itself. (c)

Beautifully intimate telling of individual existence in the vastness of the cosmos, and the struggle to fit into the constructs of society. Spiritual from the sheer facts of nature, and satisfyingly steady with emotional sobriety to reach you to your soul. Self-sovereign, grounded, and touchingly humble in acceptance of life. Such a gratifyingly wholesome and enriching read. With this second read from the author, I remain steadfast in awe of the concise eloquence and clarity of thought in Powers' writing, capable of conveying true depths of soul and breathtakingly rich atmospheres.

Wow! How does one follow up after something like Overstory, not merely the accolades, but the size and scope, but ... well ... the grand scale of the work ... ? Well, one answer is with something completely different, but equally powerful . Quite simply, this not only blew me away, but ... consistently ... overwhelmed me. Don't be deceived by the packaging - the sleek, slender volume packs a punch sufficient to go toe to toe with Overstory. It's not just that this is dense, but ... for this reader ... the weight of the subject matter ... the assault on the senses from so many directions ... caused me to read (or consume) the book in much smaller increments then I expected. It's ... a ... lot.... I'm intensely curious to see whether the heavy dose of sci-fi - not just sci-fi, but high-volume, geek-level sci-fi consumption - will alienate some mainstream and literary readers. (Even compared to a prize winner, like Station Eleven, the sci fi ... matters, is relevant, and features prominently throughout ... and, of course, pushed all of my buttons, but that's just me.) Kudos and devil in the details: don't rush past the book's front matter, which explains not only that the book was printed on 100 percent recycled paper, but what that means in terms of trees (and water and CO2) saved. Nicely played and good leadership by example.

An exceptional book by an accomplished wordsmith, where as is his "Nature" an emotional, insightful, and enlightening story is presented in a mesmerizing way. This story ranging from our blinkered human bubble to the possibilities in the encompassing cosmos. I found the depicted inauspicious world setting painted frighteningly parallel to our own, with those in authority and influence pied pipering humanity to the abyss under the nose of apathy and ignorance. ". . . the world is an experiment in inventing validity, and conviction is its only proof." "I wanted my son back. The one who knew that large bipeds were not to be trusted." For me, this story evoked admiration, anger, tears, and joy. I thoroughly enjoyed the author's book, The Overstory, despite a lacking ending in my eyes, but this story is completely different, and more engrossing with a strong ending. My hope is that many readers will perceive and think about the underlying current of the storyline, though I worry whether a critical mass of humanity has the wherewithal to overcome our deficient being.

Wow 😱 I am completely and utterly emotionally drained from this incredible piece of work 🥹🥺😮‍💨 After thoroughly enjoying ‘Playground’, I just had to get my hands on some of Powers other works and this one was just waiting for me at the library 📚 Did it live up to my expectations? YES! And more so. This was an incredibly moving and thought provoking piece of writing. Bewilderment couldn’t be a more perfect title for this book! ‘Those who contemplate the beauty of the earth find reserves of strength that will endure as long as life lasts.’ - Rachel Carson 🌍 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 Quick summary: Astrobiologist, Theo Byrne, is left to single-handedly raise his neurodivergent 9 year old son, Robin, following the tragic death of his beloved wife. While Theo searches for life throughout the cosmos, his son is having trouble at school and is about to be expelled following a fight. Robin is a quiet, kind boy who loves nothing more than spending hours painting elaborate pictures of endangered animals. As Robin faces further troubles, Theo delves deeper into ways to connect to, and help his struggling son. ‘At its heart lies the question: How can we tell our children the truth about this beautiful, imperiled planet?’ 🌎 This is a monumental account of a father and son relationship. From the first page, I could instantly feel the love between father and son; their bond was so precious and heartwarming 🥹 I loved watching them interact in an incredibly unique way. Their relationship changed so much throughout the course of this novel, as did the characters themselves. In the beginning, we meet a very lost father and son. Alyssa was Theo’s wife for 11 and a half years. He would whisper into the dark of night: “Aly. Tell me what to do. We’re fine together, in the woods. But I’m afraid to take him home.” Home is where the grief comes. 🥺🥹 ‘He and I would learn together how to enter the world that his mother had lived in like a native.’ Although, Robin is a 9 year old boy, I could totally relate to him. They do not name his neurodivergence but I am pretty sure he is autistic, being autistic myself. I recognised a lot of my own traits in him and it was incredibly heartwarming to see how his father went to great lengths to reach out to his son in different ways. Additionally, this novel is filled with breathtaking descriptions of the natural world, both here on Earth and beyond. Powers’ obviously has a wealth of knowledge and a deep sense of stewardship for this planet. ‘Let’s heal what we hurt.’ ❤️‍🩹 Furthermore, I love the layout Powers’ uses in his books. It is a totally unique style, that I greatly appreciate as a short chapter lover. It is short and snappy, leading to a fast-paced read; I covered this book in less than 24 hours, including rereading parts that were particularly special. This is a story that really broadens your mind and makes you think. It is full of surprises but none like the surprise left for the very end. I am broken 💔 and shocked 🤯 but also blown away by the beauty this book encompassed. Powers’ is incredibly talented and truly knows the route to the human heart, as well as the natural world. 🌎 “May all sentient beings be free from needless suffering.” 🙏🏼 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟

Wow. I love reading fiction that is just a bit different, something that perhaps doesn't follow typical formulas or isn't afraid to leave questions unanswered or have a challenging ending. Bewilderment I think really pushes that love and while I definitely like the book I also have strong feelings about the whole thing and they aren't all good (e.g. have some tissues around). The story at first feels kinda familiar to what I would vaguely call Aut-lit, Theo the narrator is dealing with the recent death of his wife and trying to safely raise his son Robyn, who isn't technically diagnosed with anything, but there are most definite struggles to be overcome. An interesting strange quirk of this book is that its set ever so slightly into the future, a grim future that feels all too real (and I guess in a few years it will be technically an alternative history??) but serves 50% tension for the story and 50% thematic and metaphoric challenge for the tale. Anyway as the story progresses at first I felt like things seemed almost cliche family drama type stuff - there appeared to be further revelations about the wife's death and various other revelations to come, but as alluded to these were almost red herrings, the real meat of the story was buried in perhaps blunt and clumsy, but ultimately satisfying metaphors about other planets. So don't pick this book up expecting a struggle against all odds or a mystery twisty thriller. Expect a book that will probably give you a few emotional gut punches and leave you thinking for a while. If anything an intense read - and what else can we ask for as fiction readers?

Richard Powers has done it again – won my heart with his writing and thematic sensitivities to the environment, this time through a father and his eight-year-old son, Robin (Robbie). This is a story about loss and love of family, passion for the good planet Earth, the possibilities of the future, the lengths we will go to remain close to those already gone. There is contemplation of global warming, there are illustrations of its impact, there is Powers’s trademark science intelligence woven within: decoded neurofeedback, planetary biology. To be clear, there is politics (though not overbearing) -- this novel blurs the lines between the present and some nearby future – and there are also ‘voyages’ to other planets (Theo is an astrobiologist, and the science he shares with Robbie is fascinating.) The use of galaxies and interplanetary realms really drove home the environmental themes of “coming back to Earth.” What will it take to come back to our planet, appreciate it and marvel at its wonder so that we can save it? I watched the Oprah’s Book Club interview with Powers about this book. When she asked him if we could ‘fix’ the catastrophe we’ve unleashed on the planet, he said this: “We’ve been misled as to where meaning is. We’ve gone so deeply into a culture where meaning is a purely private, caretaking thing, we don’t even think of it as a philosophy anymore. We just think, ‘That’s modernism, capitalism, that’s commodity culture. That’s who we are.’ “The reality is – if we are completely convinced that all we need to do is take care of ourselves, then of course, the world we hold in common is going to go to Hell.” If these sentiments resonate with you, pick up this novel. It’s slim (278 pages) and powerful. You may think differently about the labels placed on people who are different – who see and interact with the world differently than ‘everyone else.’ (Powers says Robbie is a reflection of his own “strangeness as a child”); you might ask what it is, exactly, that makes up a personality, makes a person unique? 4.5 rounded up for this modern re-telling of Daniel Keyes’ classic Flowers for Algernon.

This is why we read books!!! Incredible and weird and risky and spicy and emotional and angry and funny. Fantastic. Hunchback @hogarthbooks - thank you for the review copy! Out March 18th. Wise, wry, full of firecracker prose and acerbic wit, Hunchback does two things at once: it shocks the reader, sending you laughing at the book and at yourself as it simultaneously sends tightly controlled, searing blows at ableism. Strangely enough, I think the best word for this novel is that it’s GENTLE. Gentleness holds a false connotation for timidity—when rather it is the effect of immense power and strength wielded with disciplined, delicate control. I will say— Hunchback is The Timid Bookstagrammer’s nightmare: is someone out there brave enough to negatively review a book like this even when it all but blatantly, rhetorically asks you if Amazon is doing a better job at supporting those with disabilities than you are? If your bookshop strolling reels, your balancing high bookstacks on thin wrists, or your tall ladders and taller shelf porn are actually just symptoms of a much larger, deeper ingrained ableism that permeates all of book culture? Yeah. Come here to get called out when you’re ready for some introspection. Lucky for me, this jumped right up to my top 3 of the year so far, so it’s going to get hammerpraised for the foreseeable JC future as I found it perfectly paced, exceptionally insightful. Brash. Sexy. Disgusting. Hilarious. I $%&?*ing loved it. I’m lucky too, in that this hits about a million little personal things I just crave in a book as it hits all the notes of both a stark nihilism in chorus with a deep sense of humanism. Hunchback is that sort of novel for the underdog that anyone and everyone needs on their shelf. Instant classic, if you will. The ending is (wild bonkers crazy insane out of left field blah blah blah) perfect. It’s a clear effort of hard won WRITING as it shows a deft flick of the wrist creating an incredible sense of ambiguity that brings the whole novel into a new light while it also spins it into a blurry unfocus. For this book, I stand firmly on the side of the ending being exactly right. Forget your “interpretation,” this stands alone as art by itself.

「本を読むたび背中は曲がり肺を潰し喉に孔を穿（うが）ち歩いては頭をぶつけ、私の身体は生きるために壊れてきた。」 “Just to read a book, I must twist my spine, crush my neck that already has a hole bored into it, and bang up my head. My body must break in order to live.” p.46 Well, I wasn’t expecting my knowledge of swallowing, tracheostomy tubes, cannulas, speaking valves, and trach suctioning to ever come in handy for understanding anything like that ONE scene toward the end. It may be helpful for people to have a diagram that shows how a trach tube works in order to visualize the issues with speaking, phlegm and (view spoiler). For example, a diagram could show how occluding a trach valve with a finger works to produce adequate airflow for speech through the oral cavity. Author Ichikawa Saou wrote a novella that she called 30% autobiographical. So it's natural that the protagonist, Shaka, has the same disability as the author. I have to admit, I felt called out when the narrator Shaka complains how a lot of the home helpers don’t know the difference between muscular dystrophy (MD) and myotubular myopathy and how that impacts her daily care. I was also just assuming MD because it’s more common, but MD is degenerative and myotubular myopathy is not. I think it's interesting that her character for the smutty stories she writes is named Mikio (ミキオ) and the disease she has isミオチュブラー・ミオパチー(pronounced miochubyuraa miopachii). Then the name Shaka is similar to the name for Buddha in Japanese and that connection comes into play in the last 5th of the novella. “Nirvana” (涅槃) is mentioned throughout the story. As Shaka’s muscles for swallowing and breathing are weak, she has to be extra cautious when eating. Clearing phlegm from her throat can be difficult and she has frequent coughing. 「社会性のない咳きは、社会の空気のリズムを乱す。」 My abrasive coughing disrupts the rhythm of society. p. 23. This reminds me of ableism in the form of someone complaining about an autistic person verbally stemming in a movie theater. Japan focuses so much on creating an idealized barrier-free society, but disabled people in Japan mention how often they don't feel like there's a place for them in public spaces. You can see some of Ichikawa's wry humor and frustration with ableism in the following sentence: 「せむし（ハンチバック）の怪物の咳きが真っ直ぐな背骨を持つ人々の咳きよりねじくれないでいられるわけもないのに。」 It’s not as if my coughs from my monster-like curved body can be less rebellious than those of a straight-backed person. p. 23-24. I recently did a presentation on disability and special education in Japan and used this quote from the novella. 「アメリカの大学ではADAに基づき、電子教科書が普及済みどころか、箱から出して視覚障碍者がすぐ使える仕様の端末（リーダー）でなければ配布物として採用されない。日本では社会に障害者はいないことになっているのでそんなアグレッシブな配慮はない。」 "Due to the ADA, you can’t even try to sell a text at an American university if it isn’t accessible such as text-to-speech readers for the visually impaired. Here in Japan, we’ve just come to act like there’s no disabled people in this country. Because we pretend not to see, we don’t have that level of aggressively inclusive legislation." p.34. Japan has the Act for Eliminating Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities as their equivalent of the ADA to provide reasonable accommodations. While the ADA law was signed in 1990 in America, Japan's law wasn't signed until 2013 and then it took until 2016 for it to go into effect. I've seen disability scholars in Japan insist that the law is not strong enough even when amendments are being made (such as extending the law to the private sector). One just has to notice how many special needs students are sequestered away into disability schools to see that "reasonable accommodation" is something Japan is still trying to figure out. Shaka spells out how Japanese society in general is not only unaccommodating to disabled people, but flat out acts like they don't exist, basically an out-of-sight-out-of-mind mentality. 「本に苦しむせむし（ハンチバック）の怪物の姿など日本の健常者は想像もしたことがないのだろう。」 "Abled Japanese people have never even imagined a figure like me, a hunchbacked monster, stooped over struggling to read a book." p. 34. Speaking of the titular epithet, I wonder how the Japanese public reacted to the katakana title “Hunchback.” Was it shocking? Was it confusing? I'm sure there's lots of opinions because the public at large was made aware of this book upon winning the Akutagawa prize. You'd see several copies lined up on display along with a photo of the author at the front of every bookstore in Japan for weeks after the prize was announced. I'd actually never heard the term せむし before reading this book, but after a quick google image search I saw images related to the Hunchback of Notre Dame (ノートルダムのせむし男). Upon looking up the etymology of せむし, it seems to come from the idea of looking like you have a giant bug on your back. Both せむし and ハンチバック are discriminatory words (差別用語) in Japan, but I'm curious to know what different connotations they have. In America, the word "hunchback" is also mainly associated with The Hunchback of Notre Dame and viewed as discriminatory language. I was pleasantly surprised to see Yonezu Tomoko （米津知子）pop up in this novel on page 44. I even let out a small squeal of joy when I saw her name. She’s a disabled feminist activist from the 1970s that I first read about in Scream from the Shadows by Setsu Shigematsu. In Hunchback, Shaka thinks about Yonezu Tomoko in the clash between feminist activists who wanted reproductive rights and disabled activists who didn’t want abortion of fetuses once the parents found out the child would be disabled. With Yonezu Tomoko at the center, those two groups of activists in the 1970s came to the resolution that it’s the Japanese society to blame since society's what makes abortion of their would-be disabled child the only real option for parents. Thinking along these lines, Shaka muses wouldn’t it be fair if a disabled person wanted to have an abortion? 「だったら、殺すために孕もうとする障害者がいてもいいんじゃない？」 p. 45. I absolutely loved how this verb for conception 孕む（はらむ）comes up again at the very end of the book. It’s used quite cleverly. The imagery and words Ichikawa Saou use create a lingering effect when you connect it all together. Red spray paint on the Mona Lisa. Red light flashing on the tv to signal brokenness. The clash between the abled and disabled, converging on the Mona Lisa. As time passes, things in museums do not decay, but why must the body? Breaking more and more, just to live each day. The last 1/5th of the book is weird in a good way. Both the beginning and the end of the book are framed by stories separate, yet intricately linked, from the main narrative about Shaka. I was left with an impression of two sides of the same coin. Who’s to say what is real and what is a dream? Who's to say which is the cause and which is the effect? P.S. All the above English quotes were translated by me. I'm NOT a translator by any means. I just tried to match the feelings the Japanese quotes gave me. My translation may not technically be correct, so take it with a grain of salt. I hope that this book gets picked up by a Japanese to English translator who has extensive knowledge of disability in Japan and Buddhism. Until then, I think it's good for people to know this book exists and that out of all the Akutagawa prizes that have been going on since 1935, Ichikawa was the first disabled author to receive this award. It's 2023.

Gahhh, incredible. Strange, provocative, a bit surreal & always thought-provoking. There are so many layers for a book that is less than 100 pages. Moving, but also off-kilter. This is now my fave from the International Booker LONGLIST. Too bad it didn’t make the shortlist.

Shaka, a wealthy but severely disabled woman, lives in a care home. She keeps as busy as she can with her limited mobility, taking college classes online, reading endless books…and posting very provocative tweets on a secret account. Life takes a turn when she discovers she’s not the only one who knows what she’s been posting. I loved this book. This is contemporary Japanese literature at its finest. Shaka is a dynamic, fascinating and not at all stereotypical character, and her narration had me eagerly turning the pages. I love the somewhat ambiguous and meta ending. Reading this was overall such a fun experience.

(review to come, all being well)

1st read: — damn. i bought this in london due to jacks recommendations (his taste is very similar to mine) and was SO stoked to read this, since it‘s very feminist. and it was great. i needed this win, it‘s been a while since i finished a good, new book. i loved every second reading this. i was laying in the sun at the lake for the first time this year, went for a swim and read this book while eating chips. what a vibe. loved the writing, loved the hornyness, loved the descriptions of the disability, love the social criticism and ADORE the ending. i still need to read some reddit theories about it because it got me confused in the best way. hach, great book. highly recommend. it also called me out on my ableism (bc i‘m a physical book lover and critical about ebooks) and had no idea about the privilege of that. very enlightening, gave me a perspective change on abortions as well etc. pls read everyone —————— 2nd read: — okay guys. this is gonna be a long review. the first time i read it, i immediately loved it. but it was a 4 stars because something was still missing for me to feel like it‘s revolutionary. then i read camille‘s review and was flabbergasted because she read the whole book entirely different than i did. she read it from the perspective of her using selfpity, anger, longing and more. i was so confused on if i missed something, that i decided to reread it and focus on her emotions and HOW she writes stuff, what words she uses. i also wanted to make sense of the ending. reading this a second time, i realized how much i missed. EVERY paragraph is intentional. every paragraph is meaningful, has something important to say whether it is about disability, history, criticism to japan etc. i had no idea. i read only the next page after i was sure i fully understood the page before. i still have some things i didn‘t understand - e.g her bible verses talking about israels god. why did she use those? i also don‘t get the mona lisa refrences (here as well: so important, look up what exactly happened to get it! in short: the mona lisa was lent to japan and since so many people wanted to see it, every person only had 10 seconds to look at it. since disabled people would take more time and couldn‘t be rushed, they were refused to go see it. only after the disabled activist Tomoko Yonezu, sprayed the mona lisa, the museeum changed its policy and disabled people could get access to it as well.) shaka talks about whether she is the mona lisa to tanaka or not - which i don‘t quite get. what i do get is why saou wrote this book. if you are somewhat aware of disability studies (a topic very dear to my heart since i’m also disabled and a feminist philosopher, which contains disability studies) or fiction books about disability, you see quickly how narrow disabled people are talked about. she wrote this book because disabled people haven‘t been written like this before: sassy, witty, provocative, rightfully angry, highly sexual and spöttisch. shaka is inspiring. she may be uncomfortable to read about for ablebodied people but that‘s kind of the point. after carefully looking at her words, i’m sure, shaka isn‘t selfpitying herself. she doesn‘t have selfhate. her feelings (anger about society, resentment for the injustice of who gets to be healthy, longing for a normal life, disappointment) aren‘t centered towards herself, they are towards the ableist society. she is writing the whole book from the feeling of „Spott“ as we say it in german and „self-deprecating humour of the afflicted“! (her own words from page 25). she calls herself a hunchback monster, but not due to selfhate and selfpity. it’s spott and a sobering reality. she IS a hunchback monster. not only to an ableist society but also bc it‘s the natural state of her disability. i can very much relate to this humour and i realize how difficult it is to describe it to ablebodied people. it‘s purely descriptive and self-deprecating but has no reflection on how she feels about herself or her selflove. if you know that she writes this book from this perspective, you‘ll see the whole book completetly different and will learn SO much about disabled people. i immediately recognize now from the reviews of people who get it (bc they are disabled or chronically ill) and people who don‘t. it‘s honestly brilliant from saou. this book is a revolutionary book about disability. yes, the character is one aspect of that. the second is the many disability topics this book contains and criticises. there are the obvious ones: criticism of japans disability rights, history lessons about disability activism and how disability changed in the eyes of people (i loved this and learned so much), to the reality of someone with a disability, how they have to be functioning for society to be accepted as a bürger (her being a lifelong student, which is her only status-title), autonomy and dependency, being „abused“ as a naked minor by middle aged male doctors, fantasysing about having a normal life and sexuality in her eroticas written from a male perspective (also interesting, feminist theories say that a man has more power during sex, which is another contrast to her being powerless as a disabled woman) and so much more. then there are subtle points like yamanouchi (the other disabled man) who talks about being lucky that he got kicked out of society and with that is the stereotype of a disabled man who either 1. has to constantly be positive about his life or 2. the one who wants to end it all and believes his life is not worth living. no in between. shaka is the first person who is in between those descriptions! next: the sexuality aspect. my favorite. „disabled people were not sexual beings - i had assented to the definition that society had created. to do so, i had fed myself a convenient lie.“ (page 54) writing about a disabled person having sex and it being so graphic is revolutionary and with that, highly disturbing to an ableist society. this alone is why this book is soo important. most reviews write that she wants to have friction with others and wants to be provocative with her tweets. i disagree. page 25 shows us, that she is simply causing friction because she is disabled and thinks/experiences stuff differently, which automatically causes friction and is seen as a provocation to ablebodied people and ableist society. shaka is just honest about her life. „outbursts that ran counter to societys rules disrupted its rhythm. they startled people in the same way that my ungainly limp did. of course the tweetings of a huchbacked monster would be more twisted than those of someone with a perfectly erect spine.“ !!! „i had to assume that people didn‘t know how to respond to a more or less bed-bound woman with a serious disability who‘s constantly tweeting things like (highly sexual stuff)“. her tweets are her outlet of breaking the fassade of a disabled woman as society imagines her or wants her to be. she can be herself, honest about her life and tell what she really thinks. and that is, wanting to be pregnant and have an abortion. most disabled people in carehomes are not allowed to be pregnant, because they get sterilized without their consent to avoid 1. disabled babies being born and 2. because disabled people cant care for them. globally we still have the mindset that nobody wants a disabled baby. we say „hauptsache es ist gesund“ when it‘s born, implicating that the worst case is when it‘s disabled. because of that, we have an eugenistic stance (similar to hitlers goal of creating the perfect human and eliminating everyone who doesn‘t fit that criteria. disability is obviously to be eliminated because a disabled human can never be a perfect human). we have tools to see if a fetus would turn out to be disabled and often people abort the baby if the tool shows its diability. shaka wehrt sich against this eugenic society and practice. she knows she couldn‘t care for a baby but she also knows that she could create a healthy baby. to flip the system (and use revenge) she wants to make a healthy baby and abort it. (honestly BRILLIANT from saou!!!! sooo smart and revolutionary. only due to that scenario it is shown how fucked up our eugenistic birthpolicy is.) it‘s also great because abortion is SUCH a debated topic with the global overall consensus that nobody really wants to have an abortion. her wanting one shows how ableist we are with thinking that. for her plan she needs someone else. tanaka finds her, knows about her plan and is willing to take the money to get her pregnant. in this whole interaction she realizes how much power he has over her, how integrated the ableist views are in her (she fears he doesn‘t find her attractive and wants to humilate her because who would want to have sex with a disabled person) and how the only thing that keeps her powerful and gives her dignity in this scenario is her money. she pays him. which brings such an interesting dynamic in power plays: he is a man (+) who is able bodied (+) but is employed by her and poor (-). she is a woman (-) who is disabled (-) but is rich and employs him (+). who is powerful and who abused his power? here some other thoughts: disabled people are normal people who fall in love, want to be sexual etc. but they live in a carehome for most of their life. the only people they can fall in love with and want to be sexual with, are the people they are surrounded with, which means: only other disabled people in the care home or the careworkers. so who is really in power? her being rich is another unusal take: normally disabled people are never rich and instead need money from society which makes them a burden to society. she is the opposite: she can‘t function for society but donates all of her money to society, which shows that she isn‘t a burden but a blessing. she waits 6 days to have sex with tanaka, because then she is the most fertile. but then she wants to experience other sex acts first, because she finally has the chance to experience that. it almost kills her - but i bet it was worth it to her. she is more human now regarding to society. now to the ending: there are two possible takes. either the whole book was truly written from shaka who is disabled and wants to live life as a prostitute and wants to abort a baby. OR it is written from the ablebodied shaka who is a prostitute who imagines the life of the diasabled shaka her brother killed. if the first story is true, then she is living her fantasy through her writings as prostitute shaka. tanaka not taking the money and leaving is hurtful to her and makes her feel as if a part of her died. her dignity died (because she doesn‘t have power over him because she couldn’t pay him for it) and her plan of being pregnant died because she enters menopause soon and has no one else to get her pregnant. if the second story is true, then it is linked to the assasination in the carehome in sagamihara (tokyo) in 2016. with that, saou shows even more how worthless a disabled life in japan is, since these killings were seen as mercy killings. she shows how invisible disabled people are, how they are eliminated from society and in constant danger. i believe the second story is true. as you can see, i had to upgrade this book to a five stars. saou did something truly revolutionary and historical. she is the first (!!!) disabled person who won the akutagawa price, changed the narrative about disabled people, criticised SO many disability topics and japans disability rights, payed homage to disability activists and opened the discussion about disability and ableism in society. i truly believe people are shocked by this book because it goes against their integrated ableist views and i believe people who think this book isn‘t good, don‘t truly understand what she does with this book and in this book. this book is SO layered, i only spoke about half of the important points in it in this review. (eg it’s so smart that this is set during covid, i could also talk much more about the autonomy and dependency dynamic and sooo much more.) if you want to see more of my thoughts, you can see my reading activity on it. i have so much more to say but i spare that for the literat discussion hahah! i‘m beyond excited to hear from @matthias how this book has shaken japan up and what impact it had. i truly believe it‘s a masterpiece - and not just as a fiction book but as a masterpiece in disability studies. we will read about this book in disability studies one day for sure! this is pretty historical. thoughts after literat: - armin pointed out, how the care worker is 155cm tall which means he could have dwarfism/kleinwüchsigkeit. now this makes so much sense bc on the next page she talks about richard wagner and his wife, which had dwarfism but they were together! now i finally have more context to this part. it‘s also a great point of how he struggles with some kind of disability too (and selfimage, since apparently he has a scar from a penis enlargement operation?)

My only complaint is that it wasn’t longer.

Plot Spoiler Ahead Song Hello my name is Boulder I am a sailor and a cook I’m something of a rover And the heroine of this book I’m hardly ever sober Though nobody could ever tell To Chiloé from Dover I have handled my liquor well My wild days are over I’ve met the woman of my dreams She’s my ideal lover Oh how I love it when she screams She yearns to be a mother I’m not too hot on the idea Seems like a lot of bother A lot of time spent in Ikea However since I love her I want to let her have her way My life is a hangover Now that I need my love to stay The day baby takes over I lose my woman and my bed And me I cook and hoover And get so horny in my head I go and seek another Sweet piece of ass to fill my needs And once I’ve had my pleasure I come home guilty of my deeds But I also have a daughter And this is what moves me the most Oh had I never held her I might have strayed far from the coast

'I let myself be strung along; life develops without overwhelming me, it squeezes into every minute, it implodes; I hold it in my hands. I can give anything up, because nothing is essential when you refuse to imprison life in a narrative. '

Boulder Eva Baltasar🇪🇸 Translated from the Catalan by Julia Sanches English PEN award winner International booker shortlist 2023 “Boulder: Large solitary rock, piece of the world left over after creation, isolated and exposed to every element.” When in solitude we dream of company, when the crowd of familiar faces become strangers, we seek solitude. Can love ever soothe the lifetime of solitude? What is love anyway? At the very core of loving someone, the most often forgotten element is self- identification. The sacrifice, changing cities and traveling the world to be with someone has become old tired tropes of love story, of which we only glimpse the beginnings: where are the afterstory? What happens to the identity of the protagonist who leaves everything to be with their lover? Can we really kill our true self to accommodate the other? And why do we do it and since when did we start calling it “romantic”? There are a lot of questions this book has made me think, about love, about physical needs, fidelity, and loneliness that stems from being with someone who at their element thinks only of themselves and disguise it by putting ‘us’ into the picture. What are the ties that bind us? “Family”, “Friends”, “Lovers”, “Strangers”, “Work”, “Passion”? Of all, what is essential, in this existential mess, is to find the answer to the elemental question, what does it mean for me to love, what does it mean for me to live? And How do I do that? “And I don't understand the pain, which is a minor but ever-present discomfort. I assumed it would take advantage of the fact that I was exhausted to sink its claws and teeth into my flesh. I was ready to cry. Instead, the pain is doglike. It sits in a corner, licking my wound. Making sure it stays open and tender. I sail and I am all alone.”

beautiful and then deeply uncomfortable.

Solenoid is an intellectual dark comedy exuding the aura both of a postmodernistic dystopia and an absurdist horror tale… Solenoid is a cylindrical coil of wire acting as a magnet when carrying electric current. The narration is – now already traditional – stream of consciousness. The narrator has lice… And the novel begins with a nauseous ode to lice… lice cling to the thick trunks, they become one with them. Their inhuman faces show a kind of bewilderment. Their carcasses are made of the same substance as the hair. They become wet in the hot water, but they do not dissolve. Their symmetrical respiratory tubes, along the edges of their undulating abdomens, are completely shut, like the closed nostrils of sea lions. But the book isn’t just about lice… It is also about bedbugs, beetles, larvae, mites and human beings… Dreaming to become a writer the protagonist consumed tons of books… For the past decade, I had forgotten to breathe, cough, vomit, sneeze, ejaculate, see, hear, love, laugh, produce white blood cells, protect myself with antibodies, I had forgotten my hair had to grow and my tongue, with its papilla, had to taste food. I had forgotten to think about my fate on Earth and about finding a wife. Lying in bed like an Etruscan statue over a sarcophagus, my sweat staining my sheets yellow, I had read until I was almost blind and almost schizophrenic. As a youth he wrote a poem which was accepted so badly that it became a source of his decline and ruination of all hopes… Now he is a teacher in the ill-reputed school… He lives in his own house with a huge torroidal solenoid in the cellar… He writes a diary… He is obsessed with the four-dimensional space… He is full of anomalies – both physical and mental… And a lot of bizarre things are happening – to him and all around… After the first time they gave me shots in my gums, I would have preferred not to be anesthetized, so awful was the sensation of venom diffusing into my flesh from the thick needle, like for horses, that was used back then, over and over for dozens of patients, the same way they vaccinated the entire school with a single needle. It’s no wonder, I often think, that I am packed to the gills with anomalies, hallucinations, and insanity – the only real wonder is my survival. Any human being is a solenoid attracting all kinds of stuff, both inanimate and animate: sunrays, dust, dirt, viruses, bacteria, parasites, diseases, dreams, neuroses, insanity and also other human beings.

So I finished Solenoid on Sunday. And it's... definitely what you'd expect of something that Cartarescu considers his masterpiece. He starts from a simple premise: What if the Narrator (who's never explicitly named but shares a birthday and a first work with MC) chickened out after his first poetry reading went disastrously wrong and never pursued a literary career, instead becoming an uninspired teacher at a junior high school on the other side of Bucarest? And also, what if Bucarest was part of some weird experiment by Tesla worshippers who had installed huge Tesla coils (there's the title) under select houses (including, it turns out, the narrator's own) all over Bucarest? Also, if there was a growing underground placard-waving protest movement asking, no, demanding an end to this ridiculous notion of death? Down with death! Down with aging! Down with sickness! Down with this unfair entrapment within flesh machines with clearly defined spatial and temporal limits that we never had any say in designing! Democratize existence! You know that Bill Hicks gag, "If you're so pro-life, don't block abortion clinics - lock arms and block cemeteries." Cartarescu does just that and he makes it work. Of course nothing's simple in Cartarescu's world, and yet it all feels so effortless, the way he builds this into a four-dimensional tesseract of a novel that makes Against The Day feel linear. He weaves together detailed realistic (if always entrancing) depictions of life under 1980s Ceacescu or in a 1960s TBC ward with pure science fiction, with surreal flights into the stratosphere or the microscopic alongside straightfaced biographies of authors, mathematicians and esoterics who somehow relate to his story, roping in Kafka and Tarkovsky and Mann and Verne and the Voynich manuscript etc, and doing it so seamlessly that you eventually stop trying to fit it all together and just ride the wave wherever he takes you. It's like watching the actual brush strokes of Jackson Pollock rather than the canvas the dead paint splatters on. I mean, he's so full of ideas, and moves so perfectly between them, that it makes just as much sense for him to wonder whether he really had a twin brother who died as an infant, as it does for him to be Fantastic Voyage-d into a mite Messiah so he can tell his fellow mites about the good will of the enormous person they live on. What gets me is how easily all this could become just an exercise, just empty metaphor. But it never does. I've never been to Bucarest but I feel like I could navigate it from a Cartarescu novel - maybe not the real Bucarest, but it's there, just as real as the Lovecraftian exhibitions he finds under abandoned factories. The story is, in the end, grounded in so much love and anger and fear (he spends ten pages just writing help! help! help!) and humour and strength and imagination that it takes my breath away. It's so messy and so broken and so horrific and so hopeful.

4.5 stars. What a book this was. I spent just over 2 weeks listening to it on audiobook and I loved every second of it and am so sad it’s over. Cărtărescu’s huge novel is about a writer living in Bucharest who keeps and diary which soon spirals into fascinating and lengthy musings on life, morality, science, mathematics and Romania itself. It is one of the most surreal novels I have ever read - surreal used genuinely in conjunction with the surrealist movement as I think Romanian literature and it’s landscape really lends itself to the surrealist movement and it’s ideas about dreamscapes and the boundary between what’s real and what’s not. The narrator goes off on spirals about his past with medical anxiety whilst also at the same time discussing the education system of Romania in the 1980/90s. What I really enjoyed about the book was the discussions of the solenoids themselves and the ‘floating Bucharest’. The narrator meets another teacher called Irina who becomes the love of his life and the two experience multiple episodes of ‘floating’ in the book due to the solenoids that are hidden in a pattern underneath the city. His descriptions of Bucharest were an absolute dream to read about and I had to rewind sections of it just to listen again as I was so blown away by the writing. This isn’t a book everyone will love and I’m sure a lot of people will find this super tedious and pretentious but they are wrong and that’s okay. This book is a genuine masterpiece and I’m convinced that if I reread it I would probably be reading a completely different novel because there is so much discussed and dissected you will pick up something different every time. I am so glad I gave this a go and will be reading Cărtărescu’s other book ‘Nostalgia’ as soon as I get the chance because I need more books like this in my life!

The most difficult, complex and rewarding book I've ever read! I'm at a loss for words when trying to describe it, because it's such a riveting read! Although it's not translated in English yet, I decided to review Solenoid because I hope that people read about it and get their hands on the book when it will be translated. I cannot imagine the painstaking process of transfering the meaning from Romanian to English, but I hope someone will be able to do so. Solenoid is a journey in the mind of the author as well as inward. It's a fight with our own demons, it's the scalpel that disects the human condition to its worst and best. It's the cry for help we've all uttered at some point in our lives. It's hope, it's a curse, it's a delirious adventure. It's everything at once, and it's going to feel overwhelming and irresistible. It pulls you in and you come out at the end with a lot more life in your veins. At least that's how I felt. It's a hate it or love it book. And I loved it.

I don't know if I will ever finish this book, or whether I need to--it is an absolutely gobsmacking tour de force, surreal and yet granularly real, sometimes grotesque and extremely visceral, in gorgeous language that's been amazingly translated. The 'plot' (the least important thing about it) concerns a poor high school teacher and frustrated writer in 1970s Romania, who wrote an epic poem as a very young man which he assumed would crack open the literary world, but when he unveiled it in a student writing group, was horribly mocked and ended his literary aspirations. It's a world of buildings held together by wire and rusty screws, his school barely functioning, the creaky end of Romanian socialism. The teacher lives in a peculiar, derelict house at the center of which is a solenoid--created by a (perhaps) crackpot scientist... It's a world with strong surrealistic elements, both horrific and hilarious--such as the teacher's eternal inability to find his classroom, and his gargoylish fellow staff members are some of the best scenes ever. A boy raised in early life as a girl, the protagonist's intimate and painstakingly detailed relationship with his own body and its products is a thread throughout, so if the string he pulls out of his navel at the very beginning is too much for you, it's not the only such scene, so be warned. Kafka is the book's touchstone, but Solenoid is so many things, I wouldn't limit it to the nightmarish victims of Kafka's oeuvre, for the protagonist is very much a part of his world. Like an Escher staircase, I can't imagine it ever ending. I learned of this book at the Los Angeles Book Prizes, where it won for Fiction, and I can't recommend it enough--for a certain kind of reader. If you think Pynchon is funny, if you like Borges, have a weird sense of humor, if you're drawn to strange realities, say, House of Leaves, if you're just waiting for someone who can write some glorious prose, Solenoid is for you. I'm 'reading' this in audio, so I really don't know even where I am in the book, which seems right to me. The writing itself is heavenly. Note: Solenoid's publisher, Deep Vellum, has a nose for this kind of thing--it published this year's Nobel prizewinner for fiction. Keep an eye open for their books. Something fabulous is going on there.

Yes, this book is everything you've already heard about it and more. Do yourself a favor, just read it. That will be all. And if you need me I'll be levitating above my bed.

We can see the tiniest fraction of what is known to exist in the electromagnetic spectrum. Dogs can hear and smell far more than human beings. It is assumed (and not necessarily wrongly) that one day humanity will figure “it” all out. Cărtărescu is skeptical. As we try our hardest to unite quantum theory with Einstein’s theory of general relativity, the author frames all collective knowledge as existing in the prison of three dimensions, implying a fourth, or fifth, or unending extra dimensions beyond the comprehension of our senses. Much of the mathematics of string theory imply multiple dimensions beyond our comprehension. And so the author runs with this, creating the surreal tapestry of Bucharest as a sad city with its sad population being drained of its pain and suffering, not passively, but actively by certain parasites…if I say more I’d be spoiling. Conceptually, this is one of the most ambitious novels I’ve read. In its execution, this is one of the most successful novels I’ve ever read. Credit goes to the author of course, but also to the translator who seems to have combined the accessible language with the complex metaphysics involved in many passages. I have always been looking for an escape, a true door outta here, and Solenoid is the closest available option. It’s as if Kafka, Ligotti, Lovecraft, Gass, Cioran, Pessoa, all got “Cronenberged.”

Mircea Cărtărescu's Solenoid is a mesmerizing voyage into the enigmatic realms of subjectivity, skilfully blurring the lines between reality and fantasy in a narrative that unfolds like an intricate web. As the protagonist navigates a labyrinth of transformations and encounters with alternate selves, readers are invited into a literary prism where threads of identity interweave, challenging them to navigate the ever-shifting landscape of the human psyche. Bucharest, a city serving as both backdrop and metaphor, takes on profound symbolism as Cărtărescu artfully paints decay, phantasmagoria, and impermanence onto its canvas. The city becomes a microcosm of existential anxieties, mirroring the protagonist's internal struggles and echoing the broader human predicament. Mouldering houses and decaying buildings serve as poignant metaphors, prompting the protagonist to grapple with the insignificance of his existence in the vast cosmic fabric. The cosmic themes in Solenoid instil a palpable sense of anxiety, with stars serving as potent symbols of the protagonist's deepest fears. Cărtărescu masterfully employs celestial motifs to provoke contemplation about humanity's place in the infinite universe, exploring the cosmic insignificance of earthly existence with profound depth. Literary metafiction intertwines seamlessly with the narrative, as Cărtărescu blends his own life experiences with the protagonist's journey. Counterfactual journals and reflections on literature inject a self-reflective quality, blurring the boundaries between fiction and authorial reality. This metafictional layer adds complexity, urging readers to ponder the intricate relationship between the author's life and the intricate fictional construction he meticulously builds. Cărtărescu skilfully challenges conventional notions of time and causality, guiding readers through non-sequential episodes that contribute to the novel's unconventional structure. This fractured narrative mirrors the fragmented nature of subjective experience, prompting readers to question the linear trajectories of existence. Drawing inspiration from Kafka and Borges, Cărtărescu delves into the human propensity for delusion, with the Voynich Manuscript serving as a pivotal text that blurs the lines between fiction and reality. The novel suggests a compelling link between fabulation and existence, prompting readers to question the nature of their own perceptions and the malleability of truth. Solenoid transcends traditional boundaries, offering a multifaceted narrative that delves into subjectivity, cosmic anxieties, and literary metafiction. This thought-provoking journey challenges readers to confront the complexities of the human psyche and question the very fabric of reality. As the novel unfurls its layers, readers become immersed in a symphony of ideas that resonate long after the final page is turned.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize 2021 Literature as revenge against the contingency of life? Yes!! I love how Spufford works with language, and how he employs the motifs of time and light to illustrate time dilation (yup, this writer plays with Einstein's special theory of relativity) and the butterfly effect: "Time pulls itself together with a start, and instead of passing as a series of frames held in dragging delay, suddenly consents to flow." In the text, the lights signify a heightened awareness of oneself within time, often combined with the color gold - when this acuteness of the senses is experienced, the moment becomes "a spinning golden carousel of lights". On his way to work at the Goldsmiths College, Spufford has been walking past a plaque commemorating the 1944 V-2 attack on the New Cross Road branch of Woolworths. 168 people died that day - Spufford now tells the story of five children who shop there that faithful day, but in his alternative history, the attack doesn't happen. The five (fictional) characters live rather unspectacular lives, full of the trials and tribulations of average people, the happiness and tragedies of those who are neither heroes no anti-heroes. Much like Solar Bones, another experimental Booker contender, the text portrays average people in an engaging and empathetic way and gives them dignity, thus elevating their destinies to universal tales about the human condition. So while Spufford does alter the course of history, you could also argue that this isn't an alternative history: The author eradicates the cause of death of his fictional characters, the attack, because literature has the power to safe these people, to correct a cruel and unjust faith. But the rest of the book is set in a world that is congruent with the real world during the time portrayed. We hear about them in 1944, 1949, 1964, 1979, 1994 and 2009: The sisters Jo and Val, one becomes a musician, one marries a racist; Alec, who becomes a typesetter and an activist; Vernon, who uses questionable methods as a businessman; and Ben, who suffers from mental illness (and who is unbelievably well-written). Frequently, the characters are confronted with the contingency of life: Everything could have been completely different - and, strangely, that is what keeps the narrative strands together, the way the stories underline how that is the beauty and the cruelty of life. This novel openly displays how wonderful it is that an author has the power to safe his characters, to take revenge against the contingency of life - an aspect of literature that has recently become the focus of scientific research in the field of autofiction and even autobiographical (!) writing. This is a wonderfully engaging, playful experimental novel, and I hope it goes far in the competition.

Francis Spufford makes a bold move at the beginning of this impressive novel. In the first few pages, he kills off the five main characters. The year is 1944 and the protagonists are children, shopping in a London Woolworths with their parents, when a German bomb obliterates the building and everyone in it. One minute they exist, the next they do not. Spufford then imagines what their lives would have been like had the explosion never happened, visiting the characters at 15-year intervals. Two of the five are twin sisters, Val and Jo. Val is obsessed with boys when we first meet her, and they are the cause of much strife throughout her existence. Jo displays a love of music at school and this becomes one of her main purposes in life. Vernon's greed manifests in his eventual role as a ruthless property developer, though he shows glimpses of humanity through his fondness for opera. Alec is the class clown, a mischievous fellow whose gifts of persuasion earn him a job as a typesetter. And troubled, delicate Ben tackles some mental difficulties before taking up a position as a bus conductor. I thought of Kate Atkinson's work while reading this book, specifically the wartime efforts of Life After Life and A God in Ruins. Spufford exhibits a similar level of enterprise in this novel, submitting the idea that it's a miracle we're here at all, and giving his story so much heart with its authentic, believable characters. We follow their triumphs and setbacks throughout the years, and marvel at the fact that lives could have been lived so fully, when they could so easily have been snuffed out before they had properly begun. I was a huge fan of Spufford's previous novel, Golden Hill, and while this latest work didn't thrill me in the same way, it left me with a lot more to ponder. Themes like the nature of time, what constitutes a happy life, the impact one individual can have on a multitude are all examined with a grace and clarity that showcase this author's unique talents. It's a brilliant, ambitious book and the unanimous praise being showered upon it is completely deserved. Favourite Quotes: "The bride and groom are sitting up at the top end, she in cream silk with eyelashes the size of escaped caterpillars, he hollow-eyed and the worse for wear from his stag night, but both grinning helplessly, the way you do; both shining with the astonishment of being, themselves, this moment, standing on the magic pivot, the trampoline of transformation, where your life is being changed and for once you know it. Right then, right there, as you feel the dizzy hilarious bliss of it, the change is underway." "Chance, that she came back to London, chance that she met Claude, chance that she taught for twenty years at Bexford Hill. How can this be her life, how can that be her love, if it rests on such accidents? Surely her real life is still waiting to happen." "Nobody chooses who they love. Possessing something, being somebody, loving anyone, it rules the rest out, and so it’s quieter than being young, and looking forward, and expecting it all, that’s all. The world calms down when your choice is made." "It’s that she chafes, secretly, like this; that she is finding, just now, when things are hard, how sharply it seems she can still regret the lives not had, the music never recorded, the fame not gained. Old sorrows she thought were long worked through– no, more than that, which she thought were actually abolished by her having had different desires fulfilled– turn out to be still capable, still bitter, able like ghosts to billow up and start talking, if given a drop of blood to feed upon." "People say the world gets smaller when you’re dying: but there it still is, as astonishingly much of it as ever. It’s you who shrinks. Or you who can grasp the world less, who can take hold of less and less of it, until you’re only peeping at one burning-bright corner of the whole immense fabric. And then not even that."

Award-winning author Spufford returns with a mesmerizing and boldly inventive novel tracing the infinite possibilities of five lives in the bustling neighborhoods of 20th-century London. Lunchtime on a Saturday, 1944: the Woolworths on Bexford High Street in southeast London receives a delivery of aluminum saucepans. A crowd gathers to see the first new metal in ages—after all, everything’s been melted down for the war effort. An instant later, the crowd is gone; incinerated. Among the shoppers were five young children. Who were they? What futures did they lose? This brilliantly constructed novel lets an alternative reel of time run, imagining the life arcs of these five souls as they live through the extraordinary, unimaginable changes of the bustling immensity of twentieth-century London. Their intimate everyday dramas, as sons and daughters, spouses, parents, grandparents; as the separated, the remarried, the bereaved. Through decades of social, sexual, and technological transformation, as bus conductors and landlords, as swindlers and teachers, patients and inmates. Days of personal triumphs, disasters; of second chances and redemption. This is a captivating, richly-imagined and immersive piece of historical fiction that perfectly evokes time and place through exquisite descriptions and wondrous prose. It explores the beauty of life through actions, opportunities and feelings we often take for granted and reminds us of the fleeting impermanence of our lives but also the miracle that we are even living at all. Ingenious and profound, full of warmth and beauty, Light Perpetual illuminates the shapes of experience, the extraordinariness of the ordinary, the mysteries of memory and expectation, and the preciousness of life. Highly recommended.

Francis Spufford’s Light Perpetual takes as its starting point an actual event when a bomb exploded at a Woolworth’s store on Bexford High Street in London in 1944, killing 168 people, 15 of whom were children. The novel’s opening is astonishing. Spufford gives an intricately detailed, clinical description in slow motion of the bomb as it detonates and explodes. He suggests an alternative reality by inviting the reader to explore the lives of five children who died in the explosion. He gives them fictional names and offers an alternative trajectory of their lives, a what might have been had they lived. The five children are Jo and Val (sisters) Vern, Alec, and Ben. Spufford develops the narrative thread of each character’s progression in fifteen-year intervals. He begins with section t+5: 1949 and concludes their narratives with t+65: 2009 when they are in their 70s. The structure is very original. Against the backdrop of the shifting cultural, economic, political, social, and physical changes in London, we witness the characters as they grow, make choices, and struggle with their inner and outer demons. They experience tragedy, setbacks, and triumphs. The characters are distinct, authentically drawn with rich and varied lives, their interior struggles skillfully depicted, their narrative threads compelling. The seeds of who they are as children forecast who they become as adults. We see them grow up, marry, become parents and grandparents, separate, divorce. We see them as bus conductors, musicians, teachers, con artists, union organizers at a newspaper, construction workers, mental health patients, and criminals. The most outstanding quality of this book and what makes it such an incredibly powerful read is the luminous prose. It soars and lifts. Its intricate, tactile details create immediacy. Even the most mundane task, like washing dishes or working with a machine, are endowed with significance. Some of the descriptions are breathtakingly riveting. The pace varies, sometimes slowing down, other times speeding up. Spufford’s brushstrokes are masterful whether he describes Ben’s crippling anxiety or Val’s guilt, Jo’s synesthesia or Vern’s scheming. The interiority of the characters is handled with a delicate empathy. What emerges from this powerful story is the imagined lives of five children in all its thorny and poignant detail. The writing is beautiful, perceptive, stunning, and threaded with compassion and tenderness for the lives cut short in 1944. The tone of melancholy throughout extends far beyond the knowledge that these children never lived long enough to experience a future. It extends to the complexity, fragility, finitude, and interconnectedness of all that pulsates with life. Highly recommended. My book reviews are also available at www.tamaraaghajaffar.com

Lux Aeterna. In the 1980s, I sang in masterworks choirs. We performed requiems, including those by Verdi and Mozart. "May everlasting light shine upon them, O Lord, with thy saints in eternity, for thou art merciful. Grant them eternal rest, O Lord, and may everlasting light shine upon them." The lux aeterna was always emotional, the grieving's hope that the afterlife compensates for the suffering of living. This past year, millions have mourned victims of the pandemic. We have lost the very old and we have lost those whose life was yet to be lived. As someone who is nearing my seventh decade, I felt my vulnerability. I considered last things and the value of the life I have lived and the possibilities for the days that may be granted to me. At this time, reading Light Perpetual by Francis Spufford had special meaning and especially affected me. In 1944, a rocket hit a Woolworth's and killed 168 people, including 15 children. This real event inspired Light Perpetual. Spufford begins his novel with an amazing description of a bomb exploding. And then, Spufford imagines the lives of five, fictional, children who died in the explosion, jumping 15 years at a time through their lives. They are ordinary people living ordinary lives, with the ordinary sorrows and joys of being human. They are flawed people. Some try to do their best, while the actions of others are harmful and destructive. Their lives are just one thing after another, problem after problem. Like ordinary people, their lives can be boring. Like ordinary people, they have fears and unfulfilled dreams. And, like ordinary people, they are here, and in the blink of an eye, they are gone. Into the light. Become dust. It all seems accidental, how life works out. And not the way we had planned, or hoped. And then, we run out of options. We have lived our lives. And yet. And yet. As one character faces death, he has peace and he is able to praise God for all the mundane beauty of this world. It inspired me to tears. What a miracle life is--how we waste it! Let us praise those moments when the sunlight breaks through the clouds and warms our face and the birds are singing and someone holds our hand. Let us remember those who are gone and pray they find light perpetual. I received a free ebook from the publisher through NetGalley. My review is fair and unbiased.

I don’t know how he does it but every time Francis Spufford puts pen to paper he pulls off a masterpiece. Each book seems to be the product of a personal gauntlet laid whereby a fundamentally different genre from his previous work gets tackled and mastered. I was nervous of disappointment when I picked this up but I needn’t have worried. It’s fascinating, utterly convincing and minutely observed, a narrative of intersecting lives from a small cohort of primary school children in a fictitious south london borough. Lives at once below the radar of grand events but nevertheless weighty and deeply affecting. Yes he reminds us that we are but dust and to dust we shall return. But what dust!

Sometimes there is nothing more extraordinary than ordinary lives, and in Light Perpetual, Frances Spufford tracks five children from the fictional South London borough of Bexford through to old age. The twist though is that Spufford has given the children lives they didn't get to lead. In a bravura opening chapter we see them wiped out by a V2 bomb in the Second World War. This was a real bombing that cost dozens of lives. Although the five characters are purely fictional, there is a poignancy still in Spufford offering them another chance to navigate the world. The lives are well told and the characters are well-delineated and realised. They are complex, sometimes difficult individuals, but I was always interested in their choices and fates. They did not feel like ciphers even if they did exemplify different facets of the last 80 years. Ben struggles with his mental health, and Spufford conveys his inner monologue and stresses and strains very effectively; Jo and Val are twins who drift apart but then come back together again, both playing second fiddle to less adequate men; Vernon is a chancer, an entrepreneur, who rises, falls, rises and falls again; while bright working class boy Alec only realises his potential late in life. The conceit of the bomb though makes this much more than a saga of five lives though, turning it into a meditation on life, its fragility and how chance and fate plays its part in who gets a future and who doesn't. All though ends in dust as Spufford makes clear, and it is hard to know whether these lives would have made a great difference to our world, but I found this book life-enhancing. Beautifully-written, it has lived with me well after closing the final page. This is only his second novel, but he is already writing like a master.

this hurt all three of my feelings and I liked it very very much

In 1944, towards the end of WWII a rocket smashed into Woolworth’s in London killing 168 people including several children. The tragedy inspired Francis Spufford to write Light Perpetual, a reimagining of five crushed lives. We’re briefly introduced to the kids via an opening chapter that’s as bold, riveting and devastating as any you’ll ever read. ‘Shoppers, saucepans, ballistic missile. What’s wrong with this picture?’ And then whoosh … normality is restored in an alternative reality: a singing class that introduces us to the five and a sense of the future paths that might have been. Class bully Vernon ‘Vermin’, the poster-boy for Thatcherism; smart-talking defender of the underdog Alec the trade unionist; gentle Ben whose demons chart the developing science of psychiatry; and twins Jo and Val, one a passionate musician and the other, ‘always hanging around the boys’, who’s seduced into a chilling marriage. In 15-year leaps each shines a light on the social, political and economic transformation of 20th century London, their choices and pitfalls rooted in childhood personalities. This isn’t a glimpse into the world of great inventors, artists or leaders. This is a chronicle of folk stumbling through life navigating the complexities, the dramas and the everyday. Did their lives matter? You might as well ask, does any life matter? Spufford could have tantalised us with the knowledge that four of the five survived, prompting a race through the pages to find out who was the unlucky one . Or perhaps dealt the ultimate blow by revealing their childhood fate in an epilogue. Choosing to start the book with their deaths is a masterstroke. The power of the opening scene was in creating a more meditative experience: whenever I remembered they’d all died, came a secondary reminder that they never existed. A sense of loss upon loss. There’s a satisfying symmetry to the story. The torture of Miss Turnbull’s 1940s singing class contrasts beautifully to a later scene of reluctant teenagers coaxed into creating a moment of musical magic. Utterly glorious. In fact there are so many standout scenes, the forgettable scenes would make a shorter list. I loved this novel. Loved it.

2023 has started off with a bang. As does this book, with a bomb that kills off all the main characters instantaneously leaving the rest of the novel to jump through snippets of their counterfactual lives decades at a time. Once I remembered who was who and didn’t have to keep flicking back to previous decades to check I really enjoyed this book that revelled in the monotony (bus journeys and run down flats) and the extremes (neo-nazi skinheads) of life in South London. That any fiction book gets you invested in characters you know aren’t real is impressive enough, the fact this one get you hooked on people who don’t even exist in the fictional world you’re reading about is next level. Francis. Doesn’t. Miss.

The five protagonists of Francis Spufford’s latest novel, Light Perpetual – Jo, Val, Vern, Alec and Ben – are all born in London around 1940. However, in 1944, these four-year-olds are looking at a new delivery of saucepans in Woolworths with their mothers when a German V2 bomb hits the store, incinerating them all immediately. Jo, Val, Vern, Alec and Ben are never going to hit or miss life ‘milestones’, or ‘transition’ into adolescence, adulthood or old age, because they are all dead. Here, Spufford steps in. He tells us what would have happened to these five people if they hadn’t been killed during the Second World War, jumping forwards in satisfyingly untidy intervals of time all the way up to 2009. For a while, I kept asking – and I think it’s a reasonable question – why did these people have to die in the first place? Spufford isn’t interested in playing with alternative timelines, at least not explicitly, so why not just trace their lives normally, without the interruption of a German bomb? However, by the end of the novel, I came to realise that its opening pages (slightly pretentious as their prose might be) are essential to Spufford’s project. None of the five protagonists change the course of history; the loss of these lives meant both nothing, and everything. As with Golden Hill, Spufford’s research is impeccable (and here I’m in a much better position to judge than I was with Golden Hill, because I’m a historian of post-war Britain). He shows how all five protagonists are restrained by class and gender and yet how their lives take them to places we might not have expected when we first properly meet them in a run-down primary school in Halstead Road. Musical, synaesthetic Jo becomes the temporary girlfriend of a rock star in America. Vern builds and loses several business empires. Val becomes mixed up with the fascist racism of the British Movement in the late 1970s. Ben and Alec’s lives seem most tied to their class destinies, in Alec’s case perhaps partly because of the way he sees class struggle; going into a ‘trade for life’ at the printworks, he faces his skills being made obsolete by digitisation. Meanwhile, Ben is also eventually phased out as a bus conductor but struggles terrifyingly in the meantime with schizophrenia, in a fragment that is one of the most immersive and horrific things I’ve ever read about mental illness. Light Perpetual is, notably, not that concerned with the dreams and promise of youth. More than three-quarters of the novel takes place after the protagonists are thirty-nine. This hugely refreshing choice pulls Spufford away both from the obsessions of the original cohort studies – what percentage get married? who is socially mobile? – and the concerns of most fiction of this kind, which, even if it follows the protagonists through their lives, tends to linger on the twenties and thirties and then race towards old age. It gives him space to explore how our lives still change, transform, explode or implode, even once we are seen as ‘middle-aged’. It feels like he’s telling us that we’re not always going to be defined by choices that felt so important when we were young. And as the characters get older, the book gets ever more beautiful and moving (yes, I cried a couple of times). I noted in my review of Golden Hill that Spufford seemed to have been influenced by George Eliot; here, it’s blatant. Eliot famously wrote in Middlemarch that ‘If we had a keen vision and feeling of all ordinary human life, it would be like hearing the grass grow and the squirrel’s heart beat, and we should die of that roar which lies on the other side of silence’. Here’s Spufford’s reinvention, through the eyes of Alec, who was possibly my favourite character: You couldn’t walk up a rush hour street, negotiate a bus queue, sit in a theatre, if you were constantly aware of the millionfold press of beings as entire and complicated as yourself… He’s still blundering among over-noticed faces when he boards his eastbound train, still ringed around as he sits down with his briefcase on his knee by eyes universally bright and significant because they are all of them the windows through which single souls are looking out. Riffing off such a famous passage is a pretty hard thing to get away with, but Spufford pulls it off here because he earns it. Golden Hill was brilliantly clever and thoughtful, but Light Perpetual is even better. It tells us that we are all important – even when we’re actually horrible, like Vern, or believe we’re horrible, like Ben – and that we’re all worth something. And somehow it does this, unlike most novels which try it, without ever being sentimental or obvious. What a book. I received a free proof copy of this novel from the publisher for review.

I understand why Light Perpetual hasn't been for everyone, but it was definitely for me. I found it searing and touching and deeply true on people and all our flaws. The premise, inspired by a real bombing during the Blitz, is that a V2 bomb kills five children inside a Woolworths. We then get a counterfactual narrative: the stories of these five people had they not died. While some people think that the premise wasn't necessary, and that Spufford could have written a more straightforward story of Londoners in the post-war period, I thought the opening scene was effective. Firstly, wow, the detail is top notch. It also sets up the dichotomy of what the novel is all about: the interplay between the ordinary and the extraordinary in our lives. A bomb dropped during the Blitz—there are so many examples of that. Standard. But, for the families and individuals affected, it's quite literally life changing (or ending, rather). Spufford goes on to examine how the extraordinary and the ordinary coexist in our lives in so many other ways. As Jo, one of our five protagonists, observes of her students, "They long to hurry. Everything they are is oriented towards a future which they seem to themselves be having to wait for forever, enduring the great teenage boredom in which first kiss, first party, first love, approach at maddening snail's pace: but which if you're old enough to count time in decades you know is going to be on them in a flash, imminent, irresistible. In almost no time at all, possibility will be swapped for actuality." The novel is littered with so many elegant, accurate observations just like this, on honestly, so many things: white supremacy, class struggle, the value of work, familial bonds, divorce, mental health, and of course, life and death. The narrative structure is definitely different in that we get only one day of each character every 15 years, and it doesn't necessarily always make you desperate to turn the page. But, so much of reading for me is mindset, and I think reading this like you might read a collection of short stories is the best way to approach and enjoy the story.

This is a really good story built around the idea of what might have happened to a group of (fictional) children had they not been killed in a V2 attack in 1944, aged 5. The story is set in the fictional borough of Bexford, which I think is really supposed to be Deptford with a bit of Brockley thrown in. I was going to downgrade it slightly as the mix of fictional and real jars horribly for me as a real resident of the real borough of Lewisham. There’s just enough to recognise then something will clang as not being right. I think I understand why he didn’t just call it Deptford but since the book makes clear its inspiration I don’t think it would have mattered if he had. It would be churlish to lower the rating for that though as it is a wonderful set of intertwined stories that really get you thinking about what was lost back in 1944. In that sense it is a fitting tribute to the victims of the real V2 attack in New Cross. I recommend you read it!

tl;dr not much happens in One Boat, but it somehow feels like a stream of constant, plenteous inspiration There was little to be gained by further questions and much to be lost. I could know no more than I knew now, and as I was acceding to this conclusion I noticed, over to our right, to the north, on the horizon of the mountain, a thick smear of smoke sliding slowly away. On cue, another metaphor had been provided: the plot goes up in smoke. (p. 139) I don’t know much about the ancient Greek philosophers. Socrates, Plato, Aristotle; they’re all a-jumble in my brain. When I think of them I think: what a joy it must have been to just think for a living, (all historical context aside of course). They live in platitudes (thanks Plato) which ostensibly anchor the actions of individuals, but in practice really just seem to be retroactive justifications of “shit guys do”. I thusly turn to literature for perspective, as literature affords the closest thing to classic philosophy in our present day as anything, each novel a turn in the dialogue (thanks Socrates). I say this because Jonathan Buckley’s incredible novel One Boat, which tells of a woman’s quietly revelatory trip to Greece, felt distinctly Philosophical, yes, with-a-capital-P. It had the sense of a Socratic dialogue of memory, each recalled episode allowing itself to contribute to the whole of the picture. And in writing this, I feel like the protagonist Teresa, who throughout One Boat goes through notes that she made throughout this trip, doing her best to contextualize them in the narration; she humorously admonishes herself in her pursuit of the perfect literary phrase, in the same way I try to find a clever way of describing something to convince someone who, in the off-chance that they’re reading this review, to read this goddamn book. The internal tension of writing is that words often fail to fully capture the essence of something. We (the readers) inherit the role of conjuration-partner of the author. In One Boat, Teresa plays the conjuration-game by herself, which is a genius way of framing a novel that primarily concerns itself with memory. Writing is an act of capture, and the novel consists of her going through those writings, sometimes being impressed with them, other times seemingly laughing at herself at their inadequacy to the moment. To be unencumbered, I had left my phone in the room, with the notebook, so there is no visual record of that morning, and the verbal record is insubstantial, a thin summary of the remnant of what was seen: shallow pools of mist at the base of the mountain, and apricot clouds above – gold on the lagoon and on the slope below me – the sea lightly roughened: scribbles of white on the blue-black – mauve shadows behind the walls & thousands of small purple flowers – in all of that air, just one bird visible – an egret? – rising from the shore of the lagoon for a short skimming flight, then settling on the flank of a dune. (pp. 118-119). What gets me about this excerpt is that she’s apparently a bit embarrassed by her writing, but the way that Buckley has written these segments feels unpretentiously poetic, the start and stop rhythm of these sections feels genuine, like coming across something unexpectedly beautiful (just like one of the characters, who is unexpectedly and unpretentiously into writing poetry). Teresa is one of those friends wont to placate: I’m making art, but no, it’s not anything special, and then they show you and it’s one of the most incredible things you’ve ever seen. I truly think that Buckley disappears in this novel, having crafted something that feels wholly, authentically autofictional. Buckley (I keep wanting to say Teresa) has a way of propelling dialogue with the proper balance of character and those characters’ values. We take away deep and empathetic portraits of what each of these characters want and value, intensified by their ideological distinctions from Teresa. This is what I mean by a Socratic dialogue of memory – the whole of the world’s consciousness feels filled-in by these moments. (I just wrote this, and feel a bit silly like Teresa, but I SHALL keep it in) I found myself unexpectedly emotional at many points towards the end of One Boat, even moved to tears. Petros is one of the best characters I feel as though I’ve met in recent memory. His story, told somewhat in the empty space across the nine-year gap of Teresa’s visits, is incredibly affecting, and it’s clear why he’s adopted the simple-yet-profound philosophy that he has. In his thought-process, I found surprising amounts of closure in his acceptance of things-unable-to-be-known. Especially lovely were his “wisps of memory”, which feels in a vacuum perhaps like a hackneyed poetic phrase, but coming from Petros, is enlightening: It happens to everyone, said Petros. Wisps of memory, that was his phrase. Far from troubling him, they gave him great pleasure. They were gifts. The sunlight hits the path in a particular way, as the breeze rattles the leaves of a tree in a particular way, and suddenly, for a second or two, you’re taken to somewhere else. […] A shot of the past, he called it. (p. 140) The “wisps of memory” that float in-and-out of One Boat manifest in the novel’s free-floating structure. Teresa will move in and out through prior Greece visits, sometimes with very little warning or indication, with only character details to ground yourself in (which dog is Petros with? is Niko married at this point? is she getting texts from Tom or Patrick?). This caught me extremely off-guard at first, but the flow of memory felt holistic, as one. There are three layers of memory working here: the trip that she’s going over, the trip itself, and prior trips, and Buckley weaves them all together with deft, satisfying grace. This memory back-and-forth results in Teresa recalling a climb she made up an old fortress, which is one of the most stunning passages of the whole novel (which I won’t share here). It hits the characters too: when a character, including Teresa, is overcome by the story they’re telling, unable to stop, Buckley launches into long, unbroken paragraphs. In many other contexts, I might find this nigh unreadable, but I found myself unable to break away from these moments. Buckley’s sentence rhythm is mellifluous, even (or perhaps, especially) as they remain unbroken across pages. John is one such character who pops up early on, and in his monologue, we learn much about him as well as Teresa, and the darkness of his story serves as yet another mini Socratic dialogue for grief and justice. Between the lively, lovely writing style; living, breathing characters; a structure that plays with the nature of memory; and the absorbing conversation, reading One Boat feels like a constant, plenteous stream of inspiration, like an invigorating conversation: this is what the philosophers must have felt like. Through Teresa’s interlocutors, and in the observations big and small, I felt not like I was there, but rather that a sensation of fulfillment was being shared with me. What’s even more surprising about the sensation of reading this is that Teresa didn’t even have a clear motive for visiting this town in Greece. It was more just an impulse prompted by her father’s passing: a “decision” that “involved no deciding” (9). It had the feeling of being open to the world, to its people and its philosophies, and in being open, utterly transformed in the process.

Beautifully written. The whole time I was reading I was continuously reminded of Mary Shelley's Matilda with the secluded setting and existential viewpoints. Every line felt like poetry. Exploring themes of grief, loneliness, sexual desire and differing political views, the story manages to maintain grounded in its simplicity, with the character feeling like very real people you will experience fleeting interactions with in life. It is not a book for everyone, but if you like philosophical theming this is the book for you. If you prefer fast paced reads with more zippy dialogue then this book may not be the best choice for your next read. :)

Expected a quiet, elegantly depicted, typically “literary” (slow-moving) novel about heady topics like translation, interpretation, memory (national/individual), arthouse film. Misinterpretation is that, but it’s also a controlled descent into chaos as the protagonist, an Albanian interpreter with a compulsive do-gooder personality, tries to save everyone around her from their difficulties—and ends up drugging someone, stealing property, and lying to her husband in the process. It’s like Katie Kitamura’s Intimacies but with thriller-level plot velocity. I loved this! Was reading it on the train, walking on and off the train (probably dangerous…), walking to work, walking from work… The characters all feel sufficiently noble and hypocritical, weak of will and strangely indomitable in their integrity. Felt myself very attached to everyone at the end.

This stunning novel about trauma, cultural dislocation, and grief takes surprising turns into the surreal that also feel absolutely right. In addition, this novel subverts therapy novel tropes, and complicates what it means to translate for someone else.

“You know who causes most of the traffic problems? Foreigners or returning immigrants like you. You stop when you’re supposed to, give the other cars the right-of-way, allow crowds of pedestrians to cross the street.” -- Ledia Xhoga, Misinterpretation. Vallahi doğru söze ne denir, as we say in Turkish. Whenever I’m back in the motherland and behind the wheel, my mother—and seemingly every other driver—starts yelling or honking the moment I follow the actual traffic rules. Suddenly I’m the problem for being the only one doing things by the book. * All hail, dear readers: allow me to introduce one of my new favorite writers, Ledia Xhoga of beautiful Tirana. Past trauma permeates Misinterpretation, the haunting debut novel by Albanian American writer Ledia Xhoga. When the narrator—an unnamed Albanian interpreter—agrees to accompany Alfred, a Kosovar torture survivor, to his therapy sessions, her carefully balanced life begins to come undone. Living in Brooklyn with her husband Billy, an NYU film professor, the interpreter tries to maintain the fragile equilibrium between her immigrant past and her American present. But when she invites Leyla, a Kurdish poet seeking asylum, along with her friend, to spend a weekend in their apartment, Billy’s unexpected return exposes the fractures in their marriage. His disproportionate anger soon appears less irrational than symptomatic: the narrator’s compulsion to rescue fellow immigrants has begun to consume her, blurring the lines between empathy, obligation, and self-erasure “Sometimes,” she confesses, “words affected me physically, causing as much nausea as motion sickness.” Did I get your attention, dear reader? I hope I did. As an immigrant myself—someone who has lived a bifurcated life for more than twenty years, suspended between my motherland and North America—I have long searched for the language to capture that draining psychic doubling. I did not expect to find it in a novel by an Albanian American writer, yet there it was, rendered with uncanny precision. After the interpreter arrives at her mother’s home in Tirana for a visit, she reflects: “Only ten hours away from New York, and my American life had already slipped into peripheral awareness. Now it all came back. It was always like this. One life would seem like the true one, the other distant, almost imaginary. Then they would switch. A Polish film Billy and I had seen years ago came to mind. After a dramatic scene, the actors would stop acting and the camera would follow them through their supposedly actual lives. The audience had to keep track of two storylines, one that was fictional and one that purported not to be. By the end of the movie, it was impossible to distinguish one from the other. Since moving to America, my life had been like that movie, two parallel highways with regular exits into each other.” There is another passage that struck me with particular force—one that many immigrants from countries like ours might read by simply swapping Albania for Türkiye, or any homeland we both long for and keep at arm’s length. In Turkish, we call this ache gurbet: the condition of being far, wanting to be far, and yet yearning fiercely for the land you left. It is the feeling that seizes me every time I depart from İzmir Airport; the feeling that shadows me every time I return. Xhoga captures this beautifully: “Albania was a country that made you uneasy and tense, but alert and alive. It infuriated, exasperated, without apology or retribution, and yet one felt seen here, often even loved. The urge to escape its stifling confinement was tinged with unexpected melancholy—for foreigners and natives alike.” * Here are just a few of the luminous lines from Xhoga’s novel—gems that reveal her acuity, her wit, and her unflinching tenderness: “My mother had always preferred little children to grownups. She took pleasure in all the practical things, preparing the food and buying the clothes, but what was she to do with an adult looking to her for emotional comfort, she, who needed so much of it herself?” “Fine dining was a baffling diversion that hardly satisfied me. It seemed like the best kind of scam, for calling it that would be inappropriate.” “As far as I am concerned, anyone who fought the fascists should be declared a hero.” Misinterpretation is a novel of fracture and doubleness, of displacement and desire, of memory that refuses to stay in its assigned place. It is a story about the emotional labor of translation—linguistic, cultural, and existential—and the toll it takes on those who live between worlds. I hope these passages convince you to pick it up. It is a remarkable debut.

Ledia nails the cultural nuances, the life experiences and the not so subtle differences in interactions between immigrants, naturalized citizens and US born citizens in the US. As an Albanian American, I found myself becoming nostalgic while reading this book. Ledia’s prose is rich and captivating, the characters in the novel are multidimensional albeit enraging at times too. It didn’t hit me until I finished the book that the author never reveals the protagonist’s name yet I still felt I knew all about her as I turned the last page

Couldn't put it down...

I would probably give this book a 4.5 overall, but I'll round up because it really kept me on my toes and I think it's so well-written and original for a debut novel. I'm a sucker for any book interested in language, translation, and interpretation - broadly conceived - and so really enjoyed the parts of this book that focused on the narrator's relationship with Alfred and Zani, as well as the larger senses in which there were interpretations (of cultures, of relationship-types, of honesty, of intention) threaded throughout the novel. The other interpreter-focused novel I've read recently is Katie Kitamura's Intimacies, and maybe it's just recency bias of having disliked Kitamura's Audition so much, but I think Xhoga's book has a more interesting and more immersive spin on what it means for a protagonist to be caught between languages and cultures and to have to reckon with the moral weight of someone else's worldview. In Kitamura's Intimacies, the interpreter works for the ICC and is caught up in criminal trials related to a warlord who she obviously finds morally detestable. Xhoga's novel and narrator work in much more ambiguous shades of gray, with the narrator herself identifying with and then becoming implicated in the lives of her clients, a process that gradually draws her away from her kind of vanilla American husband and into the sorts of situations and risks that she associates more with her childhood in Albania than with her new life in New York. The sorts of dissociations and conflicts that ensue are some of the richest for literature to explore, realistic in their origins and exhilarating (and often hilarious) in their executions. A few examples of that - I really like the way that Alfred's dissociations, hallucinations, and nightmares start to pop up in subtle ways in the narrator's experience, and while I didn't actually like their one therapy scene together I do think the entangling of their psychic lives is one of the most interesting things that happens in the book, serving as much more of a thematic and dramatic spine than her slightly more conventional marital troubles. The fact that the issues in her marriage actually result, in some way, from this difference in perspectives on life (the narrator's eagerness to get entangled in the lives of those around her, her husband's reticence to do the same), is the most interesting thing about them, to me (the parts about him wanting to have a baby and feeling ignored made me want to yawn, only because that's a much more conventional story). And while I never really understand what made the narrator and Billy's marriage work in the first place, the rendering of how it is strained possibly past the point of breaking is very well done (if occasionally hard to read, as someone in a happy relationship!) through a series of really rich scenes that take place mainly in their living room. One of other effective parts of this book for me is the way that Billy and the narrator get drawn into the conflict with Leyla and Rakan. It feels very telling (of Billy's whiteness/americanness and our carceral culture more generally) that their escape from that situation relies, on the one hand, on the narrator's willingness to resort to a kind of community-based justice/protection, whereas Billy resorts to invoking the power of the state/immigration enforcement on those who threaten his life's stability. It is also more evidence of how Billy is a piece of shit. I think that the whole section where they are trying to navigate the situation together and react in such different and telling ways is pretty brilliant. There's a lot going on in this book, a lot that happens, and some that is left unresolved. I admire Xhoga for going for it in all these regards, even if another editor might have told her to simplify the number of characters and relationships. The messiness of all the relationships, and how they relate in unexpected ways, is something that feels the truest to life about the book and Xhoga's writing. At the same time, there were a few moments when I did feel the writing was inexplicably unclear or hard to follow, and I regret that some of those sentence-level hiccups weren't ironed out, because I think it undermines how confident of a storyteller Xhoga actually is. Okay last thing, there's a scene early on where the narrator invites one of her clients and his wife up to her apartment in part because she knows it will piss Billy off, and it does and he's just pissy and rude but his rudeness is the first thing that the client admires about him that I think is just so funny and really commends Xhoga's ability to spot/describe social dynamics in a way that feels absolutely incisive but not mean-spirited. More of that please!

If you love French character-driven movies, them this story is definitaly for you. The characters grab you and the mystery has you hooked. Will have you thinking about it long after you close the book. Excellent book on the struggle to fit in.

I tore through the ARC in less than 24 hours, and now I'm just sitting here with tears in my eyes, completely and utterly satisfied. I love Klara, the insightful and noble Artificial Friend, and I wish she were real so that I could hug her and tell her how much she means to me. This book is all my favorite things rolled into one--sci-fi, mythology, suspense and mystery, and coming of age (yes, of a robot). It's a beautiful and powerful exploration of important questions about humanity: what makes a person? What makes a life worth living and remembering? How do our beliefs and observations change the world, and vice-versa? In many ways, I think Klara and the Sun is a companion piece of sorts to Never Let Me Go (probably my favorite Ishiguro novel until this one), examining one world's solution to achieve the same type of "improvement" to society and human life that NLMG did. The goal is similar, but the means are almost opposite in the two books--two sides of the same coin. (Ugh, it's hard to express without specific references, but I don't want to even risk spoiling anything!) I cannot WAIT for everyone to read this book because I need to discuss and debate it!!!!

“Klara and the Sun” is the first novel Ishiguro has published since he won the 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature which – of course - means that this is one of the publishing events of the year, but given this author's output producing a new novel roughly every five years means it's also coming right on time. I was entranced by his most recent novel “The Buried Giant” which reads like the most psychologically-compelling fable or fantasy tale. Yet, even though I have a high regard for his work, I was initially skeptical of the premise of “Klara and the Sun” which is told from the perspective of an Artificial Friend or AF who at the beginning of the story is waiting on a shop shelf for an adolescent child to purchase her. It sounds similar to the film series Toy Story or perhaps a bit like Pinocchio. This isn't a coincidence since Ishiguro described in a recent interview how he initially conceived of this story as a children's book. Additionally, given that this new novel is also about genetic engineering, the question of what it means to be human and it's set in an unspecified future point means it's also reminiscent of his novel “Never Let Me Go”. But the magic of Ishiguro's writing is that any reservations I had were quickly forgotten as I got into the drama of this suspenseful and moving story. It's difficult to discuss this book without giving spoilers, but I'm going to do my best to avoid them. This isn't simply a saccharine tale because it's sweetness is also what makes it unsettling as we follow Klara's gradual understanding of the world around her and the expectations placed upon her. She's a naïve, highly perceptive and well-intentioned AF who has no qualms with the purpose she's been designed for: to support, nurture and give unqualified friendship to her child owner. When she is eventually purchased she does exactly that and her loyalty means that she goes to great lengths to be the best companion she can. Her faith in the power of the Sun drives her to perform a charmingly ardent act to help her child and around this time we also learn about the deeper purpose for which she was purchased. This means that these two narrative threads which are light and dark intertwine at almost the same point making the reader feel beguiled as well as horrified. It's a powerful effect which makes it a gripping story as well as one which raises lingering questions about the binding force of love. Read my full review of Klara and the Sun by Kazuo Ishiguro on LonesomeReader

See my full list of Favorite Cinnamon Rolls in SFF Novels at Before We Go Blog. Klara is the ultimate literary cinnamon roll: you just want to give her a giant hug and never let her go. Klara is an artificial friend adopted by a family to be a companion for their daughter. The book is told from Klara’s very innocent point of view. She only has partial comprehension of what is happening around her, and she always assumes the best in people. Since Klara is solar-powered, she views the sun as the source of life and healing. She has constructed a religion considering the sun as her god. Her prayers to the sun are so innocent and touching, as is her battle against pollution (which blocks the sun). I won’t reveal anything else about the plot, as I don’t want to spoil this very engrossing and beautiful story. Let me just say that Klara proves to be the most human of any of the characters, despite being an artificial friend. She is such a sweetheart and a cinnamon roll in every respect.

I've come across this book countless times on Goodreads and in bookstores, and many of my friends have read it, especially those on Goodreads. This is my first time reading a book by Kazuo Ishiguro, and I wasn't sure what to make of it at first. Kazuo Ishiguro is a Japanese-born British novelist, screenwriter, musician, and short-story writer who was awarded the 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature. 👍 When I started the initial few pages, I felt completely lost in the narrative, struggling to follow the story. I honestly thought I wouldn't enjoy it and found it difficult to grasp from the beginning. It wasn't until I decided to read some reviews on Goodreads that I realized the book was about AI robots. That's when it clicked why I didn't understand terms like "AF," "oblongs," and "boxes." 😅 With that new understanding, I continued reading, and to my surprise, I absolutely loved this book! It paints a vivid picture of AI robots coexisting with humans, and I can now imagine even more possibilities for such a future. This truly is one of the boldest and creative stories I've ever read.

Ishiguro’s new novel about an Artificial Friend asks big questions about humanity, technology, and love. Klara is not the newest or snazziest model available, yet when Josie walks into the AF showroom, she insists that the observant and compassionate Klara is right for her. As Klara begins to acclimate to family life, becoming a trusted friend and companion to the gravely ill child, she realizes the Mother’s motives are darker and more desperate than Klara imagined. Fans of Never Let Me Go will enjoy Ishiguro’s signature way with words and his ever-present theme of what it means to be a person in this world. While this contemplative story told from Klara’s wonder-filled and keenly observant point of view is lighter than his previous works, I still found it to be sorrowful and deeply moving.

This is my first time reading Kazuo Ishiguro and this novel persuaded me to add some of his previous work to my tbr list. Pop culture is experiencing an influx of movies, books, and tv shows about artificial intelligence and robots as it is becoming increasingly clear that those things will become a part of our society. For better or worse. In my experience with the fictional works that deal with these existential themes, I feel like they tend to hit viewers and readers over the head in much too obvious ways. Thankfully, Ishiguro has crafted a novel that is much more subtle and gave me a visceral, emotional reaction. Set in a future where AI robots are becoming a growing part of society, Klara and the Sun is a book about an AF (artificial friend) named Klara, whose purpose is to be a companion to a teenage girl (Josie). This is not a plot driven book and readers that have expectations of a sci-fi action novel will be severely disappointed. Instead the book focuses on interactions between the family and friends of Josie through the eyes of Klara (the artificial friend). One of the things I liked most in this book was the character of Klara. Klara’s view of the world is often flat and vague, as she’s trying to make sense of the physical, emotional, and human world around her that she doesn’t totally understand. Ishiguro does a great job of writing from the pov of an AI robot. I wasn’t familiar with the author so it was at times laboring to get through the first half of the book. However, once I got to the midpoint, I found myself reading faster and with more intent as the theme of the story started to take shape.The heavy lifting I had to do at the beginning of the book paid off in a major way. A large chunk of the first half is setup for a poignant climax at about the 80 percent mark. There were many themes in Klara and the Sun that resonated with me. Loneliness, mortality, existence, love, hope, are some that come to mind. But perhaps the most important theme from the book was what it means to be human. Ishiguro tackles this question in a unique way by telling a story through a character that is not human, but is instead observing humans and trying to make sense of the humans she observes while also trying to make sense of an unfamiliar world. Klara and the Sun was one of those books that will stick with me for a while as I also try to make sense of an increasingly unfamiliar world.

I rarely read science fiction, and this was my first novel by Kazuo Ishiguro. I must admit that I was dazzled by the inventiveness of his storyline. Klara, narrator and protagonist, is an AF (artificial friend), a robot who serves as a companion to the adolescent children of the elite. At the book's start, she is in an AF shop waiting to be purchased. Then, in a detached analytic, voice she describes her impressions of the human world from her perch in various sections of the store, from the back aisles to the front windows. Her observations, while childlike, reveal an earnest wish to serve her future human friend. In Ishiguro's futuristic world, privileged children are " lifted," genetically engineered to provide them with an academic advantage in the highly polarized and stratified world. However, this advantage has its downsides. They are socially isolated, educated by tutors on "oblong" devices, only meeting with their peers at contrived social gatherings. In addition, the genetic engineering procedure can have adverse side effects resulting in illness or even death. Josie, a sickly fourteen-year-old, selects Klara as her companion. Josie's older sister had been "lifted," causing illness that led to her death. As Klara enters Josie's home, she learns that Josie is suffering from the same symptoms as her sister and that Josie's mother wants Klara to engage in a bizarre scientific project to help her assuage her grief and guilt. Klara is a solar-powered robot. Through her experience and observation of the world, she believes that the sun has Godlike powers and attempts to seek the sun's assistance in solving the family's dilemma as a way of circumventing the mother's plan. The story includes astute social commentary, satire, philosophical dilemmas, and intriguing subplots. As I continue to think about the book and its ramifications, I look forward to reading other books by Ishiguro.

Beautiful book. Full of the little details that make life so great. Beautiful and sad, at the same time. The eye for detail in this writer is amazing. A must read.

I just adored this. Beautiful, clever, subtle and completely wonderful.

Speculative fiction is not my cup of tea, except when written by Kazuo Ishiguro ("Ish" per his preference). Therefore, I stumble at entry, getting accustomed to using the part of my brain required for accepting this genre. It took a while for this memoir by Klara, a solar powered AF (artificial friend), who has been programmed to both giving kindness and recognizing it in others. Kindness is the most common word in the book. Her home with a shattered family is as an AF to a fragile daughter, in a community which echoes our own present. Ish recently said in an interview that he finished his book before the pandemic, and did not foresee the coming lockdown. This book grew on me, the longer I read. Also watching the personal interview gave me a deeper insight into his rationale for his choices. Is there an individual soul? Can the human heart be read by another? I ended by loving the book, and as with Ish's other books, feel a lingering haunting upon completion.

The more she read old books such as The Darab Nama, One Thousand and One Nights, Khayyam’s Nowruz Nama, Hossein Kord Shabestari, The Shahnama, Eskandar Nama, Malek Jamshid, Jame al-Olum, Ajayeb Nama, and Aja’ib va Ghara’ib, the deeper she delved into the magnificent expanse of ocean that was the Iranian people’s real-imaginary beliefs, and became ever more detached from the real, day-to-day world. To deny or forget her past, she read and wrote, submerging herself in the meaning of myth. The Enlightenment of the Greengage Tree has been translated from the Farsi original by Shokoofeh Azar and deservedly longlisted for the International Booker, following its Stella Prize shortlisting in Australia. The translator, who does a superb job and worked closely with the author, has chosen to remain anonymous, likely due to one of the book’s more contentious setpieces. The novel begins with an immediate sense of its potent mixture of mysticism and horror: Beeta says that Mom attained enlightenment at exactly 2: 35 P.M. on August 18, 1988, atop the grove’s tallest greengage plum tree on a hill overlooking all fifty-three village houses, to the sound of the scrubbing of pots and pans, a ruckus that pulled the grove out of its lethargy every afternoon. At that very moment, blindfolded and hands tied behind his back, Sohrab was hanged. He was hanged without trial, and unaware he would be buried en masse with hundreds of other political prisoners early the next morning in a long pit in the deserts south of Tehran, without any indication or marker lest a relative come years later and tap a pebble on a headstone and murmur there is no god but God. Our narrator is 13 year-old Bahar, Sohrab her brother and Beeta her sister, and the novel revolves around the story of the three siblings and their parents, her mother Roza and father Hushang The story is set in Iran, in the decade or so following the 1979 Islamic Revolution. The family fled their family home in Tehran in the early days of the overthrow of the Shah’s regime, fleeing to a remote part of the country. But even there, the tentacles of change and upheaval eventually reach them: And yet, as we laid the first stone for the house near the forest and that ancient fire temple on a hill overlooking Razan, we couldn’t have imagined how useless our flight had been given that just nine years later the road leading to the village would feel the weight of a car carrying a mullah and his bodyguards that then ascended the hill to the grove and arrived at our doorstep. The distinctive style of the novel blends the beauty of Iranian culture with the horrors of the post-revolution years, Zoroastrian and Islamic religion (Roza still regard the latter as an imposed religion following the 7th century Arab conquest of Persia), and in literary terms, Iranian storytelling with magic realism. In particular we soon learn that our narrator is actually a ghost – she died in a fire in the early days of the Islamic Revolution – but one that interacts with and talks to her relatives. And while there is a linear thread to the story, it is told via episodic short tales and set-pieces, and with references often made to episodes in the collective memory of the past (“the fire of the First Soothsayer”) that haven’t yet been explained to the reader. So a typical introduction to an incident reads: In the years of Mom’s waiting in Razan, and Dad’s in Evin Prison and Darband, on a foggy morning of an ordinary day when Mom had long since lost the fortitude and physical strength to tend to the grove and keep the house free of creeping vines, ants, and lizards; and the inhabitants of Razan had become used to war, black snow, and the absence of their sons and mothers; and the whole story of the First Soothsayer, Effat’s black love, and Razan’s holy fire had become mere distant, inconceivable memories; the brazen sound of chainsaws aroused the villagers from their sleep, once and for all. Literature is as noted a key to the novel. There is a wonderful extended set piece (of which the below is only a fraction) where the family’s extensive library is burnt by zealots, which acknowledges the novel’s many influences, above all One Hundred Years of Solitude: I vividly remember how Danko’s Burning Heart was engulfed in flames that then licked at Luce’s skirt who, desperately trying to protect herself from the fire in the pages of Romain Rolland’s book, held Pierre tightly to her breast. I watched as the fire spread to the intertwined lovers Pierre and Natasha, Heathcliff and Catherine Earnshaw, Scarlett O’Hara and Rhett Butler, Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy, Abelard and Heloise, Tristan and Isolde, Salaman and Absal, Vis and Ramin, Vamegh and Azra, Zohreh and Manuchehr, Shirin and Farhad, Leyli and Majnun, Arthur and Gemma, the Rose and the Little Prince, before they had the chance to smell or kiss each other again, or whisper, “I love you” one last time. […] Oh! . . . Remedios the beauty and her white bedsheets, the fragile yellow wings of Mauricio Babilonia’s butterflies … merging with the flames, burning, and disappearing as if they had never existed. Indeed one of the novel’s tensions is between the temptation to retreat physically but also into mysticism and literature and physically, and the need to engage. Hushang at one stage returns to Tehran to try to understand what is happening, only to find that this brother Khosrow prefers to take refuge in the seemingly abstract: The next morning, though, Dad continued studying alone. He still wanted to know how the Iranian culture and civilization, with all its grandeur and creativity, with its belief in good thoughts, good words, and good deeds, had collapsed and reached such depths. Uncle Khosrow, on the other hand, truly did not want to know anything. He just wanted to float like an innocent being in a stream of cosmic consciousness and utter acceptance, and occasionally appear in a library somewhere in the world to read a book. But Khosrow argues that meditation may be the best path to knowledge: Most people see the world as a dangerous and threatening place they have to arm themselves against, fight with, protect themselves or run away from. And for these people the world truly becomes a menacing, harmful, aggressive creature. But the world is something one needs a lifetime just to know. And as the family read classic novels they indeed find: Nausea showed us what complex political, religious, and philosophical intermediaries the world has—a world we wanted to comprehend directly; The Metamorphosis showed two bereft girls that humankind today is not what classic literature had taught us. We read The Unbearable Lightness of Being with such rapture that before we had realized what had happened, night had fallen, and Scenes from a Marriage made us cry over our naive belief in the purity of lovemaking. Eventually, Dad joined us, too, and together we explored Lovers, Moderato Cantabile, The House of Sleeping Beauties, Ragtime, The Tatar Steppe, The Catcher in the Rye, and The Remains of the Day, then discussed them for days. What happens with the family, which the reader to an extent has to piece together, defies conventional explanation. At one stage Hushang (by this time alone) is arrested and interrogated, but his confession leaves his captors bemused and angry: The man yelled even louder, “You’re just making stories up? Your sister turned into a jinn and your daughter into a mermaid, and before going into the sea she gave birth to fish and shells?! There was black snow and Zoroastrian ghosts prayed for you?! A ghost showed you a treasure map?!” So in a Life of Pi-esque explanation (although in interviews, the author here has been clear the magic realist story is the true one) he offers a more conventional account: Instead, he wrote that he had been completely opposed to the political system prior to his arrest, that Beeta had lost her sanity and now believed she had been transformed into a mermaid and was in a psychiatric ward; and that his wife, Roza, had Alzheimer’s disease and had gone missing. I’ve only touched on some of the themes in a wonderful novel. Highly recommended – 5 stars.

Have you ever tried to pour an ocean into a thimble? If yes, you know exactly what I am feeling, trying to write a review of Shokoofeh Azar's novel which I finished tonight. Words fail me. I wish I had a garden - then I would plant a greengage tree instead. It would always remind me of Roza, Hushang, Sohrab, Beeta, Bahar and the book which blew me away. That's it. Review to come, provided I will safely return to reality. My heart is still in Razan.

We are not the first people to have destroyed ourselves; with a city where all devices of felicity were present. -"Manifest of Desolation" by Bahram Beizai Shokoofeh Azar - Irano rašytoja, 2011-ais, kaip politinė pabėgelė buvo priimta Australijoje. Tai pirmasis autorės romanas išverstas į anglų kalbą. Parašytas jis Farsi kalba ir išleistas 2017-ais metais. Knyga - apie žmogaus/ šeimos/ bendruomenės/ tautos/valstybės tragediją įspūdingai papasakota per fantastišką magiškąjį realizmą. Veiksmas vyksta Irane tuoj pat po 1979- jų metų Islamo revoliucijos ir trunka daugiu nei porą dešimtmečių. Pasakojimo centre - teheranieciu šeima, bandanti išgyventi tiek fiziškai, tiek intelektualiai, tiek dvasiškai tame porevoliuciniame chaose ir "tvarkoje". Pasakoja tą nepaprastai stiprią ir sukrečiančią istoriją trylikametės žuvusios mergaitės Bahar dvasia. "There are a lot of good things about dying. You are suddenly light and free and no longer afraid of death, sickness, judgement or religion; you don't have to grow up fated to replicate the lives of others. You are no longer forced to study nor tested on the principles of religion or what invalidates prayer. But for the most important advantage of death is knowing something when I want to know it. Kon fayakon* (Be! And it is. What God says of creation in the Quran 2:117) Piece of cake. If I want to be somewhere, I am, just like that. I realized all this the day I died, February 9, 1978."[...] 57 psl. Azar kalba apie nepaprastą vaizduotes jėgą prieš brutalumą ir nebepakeliamybę, kai nebėra jokios vilties... "It's life's failure and its deficiencies that make someone a daydreamer. I don't understand why prophets and philosophers didn't see the significance in that. I think imagination is at the heart of reality, or at least, is the immediate definition and interpretation of reality, or at least, is the immediate meaning and interpretation of life. [...] I mean, when life is so deficient and mundane, why shouldn't imagination supplement reality to liven it up?” ...ir kaip nuostabiai organiškai autorė supina persų mitologiją, religiją (Zoroastrizmą), pasakas...ir realybę. Dvasios, džinai, undinės, žmonės ir kiti (ne)gyviai liečiasi, veikia vieni kitus...Ir net Ch. Bukowski citata "Find what you love and let it kill you" - taip netikėtai atranda čia savo vietą...Nesinori pasakoti kas ir kaip čia vyksta....nes ne tokia ši knyga...svarbiau - ką tu jauti, galvoji ją skaitydama(-as)... "So, the thing on which I lived is called Planet Earth, and it's round, and according to you, all of those countries and tribal lands exist, and seven billion people live on this ball, and I don't even know how many that is. I just know it means very many. [...] Well, if there are all these people alive, think of all the dead people and wandering ghosts who also live on this ball. If every one of these wandering ghosts wanted to avenge themselves on another ghost or person, the world would become hell". 54-55 psl. Ir pabaigai: "Their lives can be summed up in two sentences: they fell in love with each other and wanted to build a beautiful future, but instead of a happy life for themselves and their children, they saw death, confusion, and suffering, and then died". "I'm happy none of us had children.This isn't a safe world to bring children into".244 psl. Mano antroji perskaityta knyga iš šių metų (2020) Man Booker International trumpojo sąrašo. Turiu pripažinti, kad ir kaip man patiko keturios iš skaitytų penkių pernykščių Booker finalisčių, šioji - visiškai nunešė man stogą. Skaityti būtina!

full post here at my reading journal https://www.readingavidly.com/2020/06... As I generally do prior to reading any book, I take a glance at the dustjacket blurb, both for the basic outline of what it is I'm about to read and for information about the author, as well as the translator if there is one. I got a bit of a jolt this time around -- there's the normal bit about the author, Shokoofeh Azar, saying that she moved to Australia in 2001 as a political refugee, but the surprise is that the translator's name has not been provided, "for reasons of safety and at the translator's request." After reading what's in this book, I'm not surprised, but to the anonymous translator: thank you and well done. As the Stella Prize Judges' Report said of this book, "the novel presents a richly woven magical reality:" "Drawing on techniques of classic Persian literature, and recalling aspects of South American magic realism, Azar powerfully juxtaposes the beauty of Persian culture and mythology with the brutality of a political regime responsible for the destruction of so many lives." The story begins in 1979 and plays out amidst the backdrop of the Islamic Revolution, following the lives of a family from Tehran who become caught in its wake and decide to flee, wanting only to "disappear in silence." They make their way to remote Razan, where the father, Hushang, sees the "calm eyes of the villagers" and knows they're at the "safe place where we were meant to be." What they don't know at the time is that this place, where as the dustjacket blurb notes, they were "hoping... to preserve both their intellectual freedom and their lives," will not stay remote for long, as the revolution will eventually make it way there as well, nine years later in 1988. While it is often emotionally tough to read, The Enlightenment of the Greengage Tree addresses not just the horrors of the time, but also what it takes in order to survive through the worst. It deals with grief and loss, seeking and finding, life and love. It is a most original and powerful book that I will probably never forget, almost dreamlike in the telling. You will have to wind your way through the elements of magical realism to keep a chronological eye on the narrative, but as you do so, savor the time you spend there. Most likely not a book that everyone will like, but for me, it's now of one my favorites of 2020. I loved this book. Absolutely.

This was such a great read. I can totally see why it was shortlisted for the International Booker Prize. It's very sad and heartbreaking but so worth the read. Shokoofeh Azar created such a rich beautiful world with jinns, ancient spirits, mythological creatures, ghosts, and people all coexisting and closely interacting which was so magical. This is a story of people trying to escape sorrowful reality and preserve their intellectual freedom. Which turns out to be not as easy as they hoped it would be. The story is set in Iran after the Iranian revolution of 1979. When the shah regime is being replaced by the new Islamic regime. We follow a story of one family that decides to flee Tehran to a small remote village in hopes to preserve their freedom. But things don't quite go according to the plan and the new regime finds them there. But it's more than just a story of oppression. It dives into topicks of crowd mentality, human nature, human spirit, and resilience, family etc. The writing was poetic and lyrical. It felt more like reading a fable rather than a novel. The portrayal of grief and struggle to stay free in a rapidly changing oppressive society was so profound and touching. To me, it strongly resembled Kafka's writing. Especially in the second part of the book. So weird but beautifully so. Amazing book and highly recommended.

One of the easiest 5-star reviews I've ever given. This book deals with complicated ideas and nuances regarding race and privilege, but does so in a writing style so accessible that your forget you're reading. The descriptions and dialogue are so vivid, authentic, and visual that you feel fully immersed in the narrative. I couldn't put it down.

4.5 stars There are books I read for the pure pleasure of the storytelling and there are books I read to make me think. Occasionally a book comes along that does both, without it being an “issue book”. This is one of those books. One of the best ways to make a point is through witty satire, through stereotypical characters who are ridiculous, yet compulsively readable. Taking the biggest hit in this book are the progressive “woke” individuals who are so fearful of appearing racist, so convinced that they aren’t racist, that they lack self-awareness. Alix (pronounced Ah-Leeks) Chamberlain is an entitled, progressive, white woman in her 30s who is a blogger and Instagram influencer. Emira is a college-educated black woman in her mid-20s, uncertain and confused about what she wants to do with her life. Emira is hired by Alix to babysit her toddler daughter, Briar (who is just the sweetest!). A defining incident happens early in the book and from there we are given the perspectives of Alix and her privileged friends (who are both black and white), as well as Emira, her friends, and her (white) boyfriend. This is so much more than a book about racial bias. It’s about race, yes, but it‘s also about social class, success, parenting, friendship, and the relationship between a nanny and the family she works for. Bias can be subtle. It can be the hubris of thinking you know what is right for others. Everyone here seems to know what Emira needs, and are so busy "doing good" that they don't bother to really get to know Emira or her wants and needs. The road to hell is paved with good intentions and it’s never more evident than in this story. One measure of a successful story/book is that it accomplishes what the author sets out to do. This author avoids the easy solutions and doesn’t tell us what to think. Instead she makes the reader think and examine their own feelings, opinions and actions, which can be uncomfortable indeed. The last line in the book packs quite a punch. Do yourself a favor and grab a friend or two, and read this book together. It’s a book that begs discussion. I had the good fortune to read this book with my friends Marialyce and Victoria. Our discussions were insightful and thought-provoking, enhancing the experience beyond measure. This is an amazing debut, and I can’t wait to see what this author writes next. *I received a free digital copy of this book via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.

This was so fucking good.

I was so happy to have a chance to read Such a Fun Age, and when I heard it was chosen as Hallo Sunshine pick for January, my excitement was huge. Such a Fun Age was such an amazing book. No wonder it took bookish community by the storm! It is well deserved. In my honest opinion, this is the perfect book for reading clubs and buddy reads, as it's thought provoking. While talking about race, classes, one's place in the world and people's relations, it is very enjoyable to read. As I already said, it deserves all the success. I expect this brilliant debut to be on many bloggers' lists of favourites of 2020. Read this and more reviews on my blog https://bookdustmagic.com

➽ 2021 reads: book 2/75 such a fun age was such an addicting and accessible novel that i flew through in the space of twenty four hours. what i loved so much about this novel was it’s simplicity and non-pretentious storytelling and writing style, while still discussing a multitude of nuanced and complex themes interwoven with each other. it deals with racism, classism, parental responsibility, performative activism, and the terrifying task of finding a sustainable job and feeling lost in your mid-twenties. the characters were so fleshed out. emira as a woman was someone i could completely relate to in her anxieties about coming in to adulthood and watching her friends thrive and be successful while being insecure and stressing about what you’re doing with your life. and seeing her relationships with her friends and with her love interest was so fun, but the relationship i loved the most was emira and briar. i’m someone who isn’t a mother but spends a lot of time with children as a big sister and an aunty and seeing emira and briar’s relationship was so heartwarming. kiley reid has perfectly captured what it’s like to spend time with a child who you love so wholeheartedly. alix was a complete psycho and i loved watching her crumble. i see so many women like her all over twitter and instagram, this was just such a good commentary on privileged people obsessed with being perceived as a “good person”. my only criticism of this book is that it was too short. i just wanted more and i wanted to see emira thrive. although that last paragraph gave me chills. i absolutely can’t wait to see what kiley reid does next. youtube ❀ twitter ❀ instagram

god, this book is was like watching a slow motion car crash. i feel like i held my breath for a week. it's a deeply, almost painfully, observant look at social media, Blackness and whiteness, a certain kind of affluent white motherhood, power, privilege, philly, the post-college blues, dating, the decisions you make because you're about to get kicked off your parents' health insurance, woke white boys, lean-in feminists, and the weird incandescence of three year olds. honestly--go get it.

This is such a fast read, which is interesting, because the events that happen are never these big huge things, but generally fairly subtle. Emira is a 25-year-old college graduate who is at a party when the woman she babysits for calls her at eleven p.m. on a weekend night, saying that something dire has come up and she needs Emira to pick up the almost three-year-old Briar and just get her away from the house for a while. Emira needs the money, so she leaves the party and takes Briar to a local upscale market, where Briar enjoys things like smelling teas and nuts. Partially because Emira is dressed for a party and not for a night of babysitting, but mostly because she’s black and the child she’s caring for is white, an older white woman decides that Emira might well have kidnapped this child. So, the security guard confronts Emira and tells her she can’t leave. The entire altercation is caught on the video of a man in his thirties using his phone. This whole novel is about race and privilege. It’s about Emira, who doesn’t know what she wants to do with her life but has to figure it out soon because she’s about to be kicked off her parents’ insurance, and her struggles of feeling like she’s falling behind her friends’ career advancements and whether her white boyfriend judges her for still being a babysitter despite her age and degree. I really enjoyed it. Thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this novel.

3.5 Stars. “Such a Fun Age” is an amazing debut novel by author Kiley Reid. It expounds casual racism in contemporary America and pokes fun at liberal posturing that focuses on proving non-racist identification. You know the type: “I’m not racist, I invited 5 black people to my Thanksgiving dinner party”. Bonus, it’s more than a story that illuminates casual racism, it’s a story of millennial struggles: what it means to be adulting. Our adorable protagonist, Emira, is a twenty-five-year-old black woman who has graduated from college yet hasn’t found her passion. All her friends have high earning jobs with health benefits, and Emira, well, she’s a part time nanny and a part time typist, barely getting by. Emira’s inner musings and struggles are beautifully written by Reid. The reader understands her worries. The other protagonist, not so adorable, is Alix, Emira’s boss. Alix is a social media entrepreneur who hired Emira to take care of her three-year-old, Briar. Briar has a main role in the story with her adorable observations and dialogue. Author Kiley Reid has definitely been around toddlers because she nails Briar’s character. Emira loves Briar and looks forward to being with her. Things get complicated with Emira and Alix when Emira starts dating Kelley Copeland, a handsome white man who meets Emira in the first chapter of the novel under an awkward grocery store moment for Emira. Both Kelley and Alix want to make Emira their pet project of proving racism. Both white people want to educate Emira in why she should be enraged to be a victim of racism. Meanwhile, Emira just wants to become an adult. These racists events are the least of her issues because she’s lived with racism all her life; adulting is new to her. Neither Kelley nor Alix understand what Emira is struggling with. Both try to “help” her and she doesn’t want their help in tackling racism. Both look at their relationship with Emira as their way of proving to the world that they are ultra liberal white people. Both ignore what Emira really needs and wants. This is a multi-themed story. It’s almost a tragi-com. It’s a comedy with deep messages. Sweet innocent Briar and Emira are the story’s endearing characters. I listened to the Audible production narrated by Nicole Lewis. Lewis is the perfect narrator for this story.

Wow! White people will tear you down to build you up just to say they did! They crazy!!!! This book was a magnificent read. I listened to a podcast, Nerdette, where they talked about how dope this book was without giving it away and they were right on the money. The characters were perfect in this subdued yet completely out of pocket way. There was nothing over or underdone. So many life lessons here, from both the black nanny and the white mistress perspective. I love how they included Instagram and the influencer culture, white Hilary Clinton supporting feminists and the ways that all of these modern things intersect to create or bring out the fucking worst in people. The worst in social climbers and the worst in those who value things that don’t mean anything and undervalue things that mean everything. I legit could not put this book down. It was amazing. I don’t get into a lot of fiction but this shit was on point!

In an era of so many white savior narratives, it’s so refreshing to see a story written by a black woman that directly challenges and upends that problematic narrative trope. Alix Chamberlain is the textbook well-meaning rich white woman: She has black friends. She’s read everything Toni Morrison wrote. She’s trying to land a gig with Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Emira Tucker is the 25-year-old black woman who babysits Alix’s two young daughters. She’s aimlessly trying to figure out her life—preferably before she turns 26 and loses her parents’ health insurance. One night when Emira is at a grocery store with Alix’s daughter, she’s confronted by a security guard who accuses her of kidnapping the young girl. A white man named Kelley films the incident, and he and Emira begin dating. Horrified that this happened to Emira, Alix resolves to make things right, but as it turns out, Kelley is someone from Alix’s past, and things start to get messy. While the central conflict of the narrative rests on a premise that is perhaps unrealistically coincidental, the fact remains that this book is compulsively readable. The characters are so well-developed and the dialogue so authentic, with tons of little details and observations. Emira becomes the reluctant target of both Alix and Kelley’s well-intentioned but problematic white saviorism, as they both try to do what they believe is best for her, pushing her life in what they perceive to be the right direction. But Emira doesn’t need to be saved—especially not by these two. Laced with important commentary about race and privilege, this is ultimately a story about owning one’s own life. Emira may be the aimless one, but she’s true to herself—something that, we come to find, isn’t the case for Alix, despite how much she seems to have it all together. I really enjoyed this and never wanted to put it down while I was reading it. I have no doubt that it’ll get a ton of buzz when it comes out. *Thanks to NetGalley for a free advanced copy in exchange for an honest review*

4.75 if i, a plot lover, am gonna read an all vibes character study i want veronica raimo to write it

I need more stars. Seriously glorious and hilarious. I know this is fiction but I've never wanted a novel to be true so badly in my life. Okay so there is a brother called Christian who is also a writer but I've no clue which other bits (if any) have any basis in truth. I can't even look up a proper biography because the only version I can get is in Italian. Frustrated. Anyway, back to this brilliant little book. It is a memoir-esque tale of the life of a young woman - Veronica who makes up most of her life - stealing paintings she has not done because her mother thinks she's artistic, writing a false diary for her mother's benefit, swapping writing with her brother when the other can't be bothered to finish an essay/novel/article. She has parents who are also completely deranged - a mother who constantly thinks the worst has happened when her children ignore texts and a father who seems intent on making more and more rooms out of a small home this rendering Veronica's bedroom the size of her bed and no larger. If I keep going I'll just regurgitate the entire novel. I want to because it was brilliant and I loved it. I need to say thanks to Netgalley and Grove Atlantic for approving me for this book and I also need Grove Atlantic to get her other untranslated books translated. There's only one other I know of and that is a much darker tale. Either way, this translation is out in August 2023 but I'd seriously urge you all to put it on your wish list now so you don't forget.

This 224-page compilation of out-of-chronological-order life vignettes is called a “novel,” described as a “bildungsroman” or “coming-of-age story,” but I suspect that is for legal reasons. It is clearly a memoir in flashes. It has more in common with Patti Smith’s Just Kids in its quality as an original memoir than a novel. The named first-person author (she uses variations of her own name as well as her profession as a writer) hits us with scenes from all different times in her life—from a family whose father’s favorite activity is building walls within an apartment and a mother’s who manages to suffocate her kids with her fantastical worries and check-up phone calls while simultaneously leaving them so feral and shattered that Veronica doesn’t know what sex is until after she has had it many times and her grasp of memory or knowledge of what is truth and what is something she made up is practically nonexistent. The book is sometimes laugh-out-loud funny, sometimes sad, always entertaining. Veronica Raimo is made to be a fictional character because I imagine having to deal with her neuroses, brain fog, and blind spots in real life might be exhausting. Reading the book is not at all exhausting. She’s a terrific writer and this is a story worth telling, even if she has to call it a novel so that nobody will sue her and because, given her inability to know the truth or recognize herself, that is probably the closest to truth she can come.

LOST ON ME Veronica Raimo International Booker Longlist #1 This is exactly the kind of squirrelly highbrow humor I’ve begun to crave in novels. Lost on Me— what are the right words? original, amazing, hilarious, more and more and more. It finds a bit of merriment in the moribund and absurd. It laughs as its own jokes. It hates that it does that. It feels like one of those books where the narrator “Jim Halperts” at the camera—at you—creasing their mouth and eyes and entire face into a sarcastic, knowing side-eye. Then, occasionally, at just the right moment, a spark. A flash as bright as a Knausgaard lightbulb moment. A Valeria Luiselli moment: where life all makes sense in one little sentence. Not in the brain but deep down in the chest somewhere. Can there be entertaining semimeta-autofiction? Can it be written in a wry stream-of-consciousness sarcasm, sprinkled with a bit of mourning of a life that hasn’t been easy but hasn’t been all that bad either? Raimo says yes. Her Lispectorian grasping at abstraction and ambiguity still stays grounded enough to satisfy this reader. Bring me more! A whopping “5 stars” (or whatever) for this one. I loved it.

Five glorious stars!! This book made me laugh out loud and cry in public TWICE. A brilliant bildungsroman centering family and the power of the stories we tell ourselves and to each other. I want to read more from Veronica Raimo stat!

I just loved this book. Kurkov is amazing, but Kurkov and Dralyuk together are sublime. Kurkov provides the whimsy through his quirky characters that don't seem to fit in a gritty atmosphere, but are all the more welcome because of it. We cozy up to them; they are ports in a storm. And Dralyuk offers his own brand of whimsy through an extremely playful choice of English words that hints at self-deprecation, but is actually draped in self-awareness of his craft that never approaches cockiness. Really looking forward to more in this series.

Good book with a great protagonist. Samson reminds me of the classic Dick Francis hero. Affable, intelligent, and thrust into a mystery he didn't want to solve. The world-building is stark and real. I felt transported into the cold and smelly past where food was hard to come by and warring groups fought in the streets. The mystery portion was okay. I was both surprised and not by the final reveal--the mark of a good mystery writer. I'll read the next in the series. Though not necessarily in a hurry.

** spoiler alert ** Translated from the Ukranian and inspired by actual KGB documents, The Silver Bone is a terrific historical mystery set in Kyiv in 1919 when the country is awash with Bolsheviks, Cossacks, and criminals all seeking to run the country. To quote Vasy, the police department's major domo, "It's a revolutionary cocaphony. People are armed to the teeth, there is no order, and we've got a hundred times more bandits and robbers running around than ever before. And, of course, all the experienced policemen and detectives have been dismissed." Young Samson Kolechko, newly orphaned and wounded by Cossacks, lands a job as a detective, a job for which he has no experience. Author Andrey Kurkov has created a cast of engaging characters and brings us the reality that was Kyiv in 1919 . The translation is first rate, and the story is compelling. Samson is an appealing hero, sweet, smart, dedicated, and naive. You root for him as tries to learn the art of detection, to cope with the impenetrable demands of Communist bureaucracy, to win the heart of the stalwart Nadezhda , and to simply survive as the Red Army confiscates everything and fatal bullets kill at any moment. With the completion of the second book in the series, again translated by Ukranian born American Boris Dralyuek, Kurkov is writing the third installment. May we enjoy the new installments as the Ukraine frees its people once again from Russian tyrants.

Longlisted The Booker Prize 2022. Winner of the Desmond Elliott Prize 2022 A stunning achievement, especially considering this is a debut novel. Mortimer's Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is among my favourite reads for 2022 if not my favourite. Spectacular in terms of literary expression and structure. Technically inventive and formally brave but also incredibly moving. Achieves what I look for from novels: made me think and feel about literature and life in new and at times uncomfortable ways by challenging my entrenched perspectives and experiences, including some I didn't even know I had. Demanded that I rethink my assumptions about embodied life and that of others around me. The central character, Lia, a mother, wife and children's book illustrator, is dealing with a cancer recurrence as it changes and claims her life. It's about her coming to terms with her life and all the manifold relationships and selves that make for a life. But interestingly it's also about her embodied life coming to terms with and perhaps exceeding and displacing what we might understand the person and character 'Lia' to be. At its centre in terms of story is a moving depiction of Lia's relationship with her daughter Iris. It's also about her relationship with an early love, Peter (a young man who lives with her family and eventually leaves to pursue ordination). This early relationship is intense and physical, sexually and emotionally. Mortimer sensitively represents that all-consuming physicality of first love. The book also conveys the different relationships Lia shares with her husband and Iris's father, Harry (an academic), and with her parents (Anne and Peter). These lives are narrated in a non-linear structure; the ways in which Mortimer weaves them through different understandings and experiences of physicality, bodies and illness are incredibly deft for such a young author. It's this rendering of embodied experience and life that for me makes Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies such a distinctive and rewarding read. The sophistication with which Mortimer combines the different strands, including in terms of character and style, astounds me. I'm still staggered by this literary achievement. The particular feature that makes this my stand-out novel for 2022 is the 'other' first person narrative voice (and it isn't quite singular), alongside although not entirely separate from Lia's, that permeates, infiltrates and gradually takes over. In some ways I understand and approach it as that voice of 'the physical and the embodied' in its myriad diversity spread across many different facets and dimensions. At moments it appears as the voice of the cancer, the tumour, the cells. But it's much more and different than just cancer personified: speaking and spreading. It's quirky, elusive, disruptive, funny, ironic. There's a sense as Map's progresses that it's trying to find its voice, its distinctive register and place in narrative forms and structures that generally want that to represent consciousness and subjectivity (interior monologues, stream of consciousness, etc.). In terms of typography, rhythm, imagery: this voice dances and plays through and across the pages. It smirks and grins. It's shy and then aggressively confrontational, even heckling, as it plays with the various literary forms and expressions that might embody it. It tries on various literary devices and tropes (from the poetic and philosophical to jokes to something approaching the impressionistic and artistic, it makes appearances in the register of the medical and biological, the historical ....), sometimes within passages and across the same page: a doppleganger, a trickster, shape-shifting and refusing to be easily categorised or labelled. I read this voice as integral to but other than what we might typically understand as the human person and subject or identity. It is 'Lia' but it also isn't. Maps isn't an easy read; the creativity with form and style intrigues and requires work and patience from the reader. It challenges our expectations about what voice and narration are and can be. What kind of narrator are we experiencing, how as readers do we interpret and relate to it? This book is beautifully strange and life affirming in its textured play with the messy organic materials that make up our lives and our deaths. I'm eager to see where Mortimer takes us next.

This book is so engrossing. It’s experimental prose that also includes poetry and little short anecdotes. I loved how inventive and innovative the writing was. The story itself was so uniquely told too about a persons life and their inner body’s workings. Very riveting read. Stunning debut. I can’t say enough good things about this one. If you happen upon a copy, get one. It’s one of those unique books that is a complete piece of art from beginning to end.

“Sometimes it takes a lifetime to receive the world in a language different to your own; to let the shape and taste and sense of a thing eclipse to its own translation.” In writing that teeters between poetry and prose, this spellbinding novel – written by a young woman who hasn’t even reached 30 yet – captures something incredibly real about the human condition and the nebulous line between life and death, body and soul, love and despair, mothers and daughters, suffering and redemption. It is so damn good, so translucent, that in many places, I gasped. If this book doesn’t win prizes, then there is no justice. Lia has cancer and she’s going to die. This we know is true. Is death a first-person or a third-person experience? The unusual choice of narration – sometimes from Lia’s perspective and sometimes from the perspective of her disease – is a stunning balancing act that this author pulls off with aplomb. As Lia weakens, a number of characters – all of whom have left their mark on Lia’s life in one way or another – interact with the disease: Harry (The Gardener) who has been nothing if not loyal and steadfast; her teenage daughter Iris (Yellow) who, as a babe, literally inhabited the color; her mother Anne (Dove) who is there for her now but may never have loved her in the way she needed; her ex-lover Matthew (Fossil) who came to her home as a boy and who may have usurped her mother’s love while commandeering her own; and more. Along with the malevolence of her disease come searing scenes from her outward world: Lia, exhausted from the “red devil” chemo, who is approached by a drunken man who grabs at her breasts, only to find empty space…or as a young girl, resting in a hospital after a car accident with Matthew and not knowing who her mother is referring to when she says, “I couldn’t live without...” or the sweet mother-daughter word-games that Lia plays with Iris, knowing time is short. It is words that carry the story. At one point, Lia asks Iris, “Will you promise me you’ll always think like that?” “Like what?” “With limitless possibility of what things are, what words are?” The words here are filled with bursting energy and they swirl around on pages or boldly stand out or take the shape of poetry or sometimes, of myth. Like Lia’s cells, the words sting and recede and mutate and even take the shapes of the people who have shaped her life, like the Dove. This novel is astonishing and will likely be my top pick for 2022. I am simply in awe of Maddie Mortimer’s phenomenal talent.

I have probably mentioned this many times but it is something that fails to amaze me. I am referring to the addictive read: a book which dominates your life for a few days, This is what happened to me while I was reading Maddie Mortimer’s Maps of our Spectacular Bodies. Already one can gage my feelings for this novel. Maps tackles quite a controversial topic: Cancer, furthermore it details the spread on cancer in the body and how it dominates until it kills. In an amateur’s hands this could be a self-indulgent sobfest but Maddie Mortimer handles it deftly and in an interesting way. The book is divided into three timeline: the first is about main protagonist Lia’s childhood involving a trainee priest, Matthew. The second timeline focuses on Lia in the present day, married to Harry and with a child, Iris. This section also details how her family react when they discover that her cancer is out of remission. The third timeline is from the cancer cell’s point of view and, although it may sound silly, it isn’t and it is the more poetic sections of the book. All timelines are not in chronological order and sometimes shift perspective but as one reads things make sense and it’s easy to make connections and one eventually gets a the full story of Lia’s life. Although over the last few years a plethora of books have been published about mother/daughter relations none are quite like Maps .. this is a relationship where the mother is suffering and yet wants her daughter to know and does not want to her to panic. It’s also about death and how it change create a change, in one section the cancer cell quotes ted Hughes Crow, which is also a meditation about death. This goes to show the many layers of this book. As one can guess Maps.. is not an easy read, yet the playful approach to the text does not make this a trudging read. At times I was reminded of Ali Smith as Maddie Mortimer also likes to squeeze in trivia and literary references in her work while maintaining a disjointed chronology yet this is an emotionally charged novel. I was deeply moved by Maps.. , even shedding a tear at times. To be so boldly experimental and to be able to emote shows great talent and for a debut navel, Maddie Mortimer, not only shows potential but I already am eager to see what the next move will be.

2022 BOOKER PRIZE LONGLIST CHALLENGE MAPS OF OUR SPECTACTULAR BODIES by Maddie Mortimer ***** Another debut novel that emotionally crushed me, MAPS is both the most beautifully written of the longlist novels I have read so far (this was number 10) but also one that fits into the pantheon of Booker listed works that plays with form and style in ways that were unexpectedly effective and powerful. Lia is a forty-something succumbing to cancer and in the end of life, with the devastation of the illness in full effect, she journey’s into her past, her regrets, her lost love, and grapples with the meaning of her life and death on her husband and young daughter. MAPS jumps perspectives seamlessly, entering the minds of Lia’s mother, Alice, her distraught daughter, Iris, and her lost husband, Harry, and even gives voice to the cancer, who has accompanied Lia from a very young age, sharing her joys and devastations. Mortimer does all this in incredibly inventive ways, moments appearing as poetry, other moments of stress told in fragments, with words moving out of their conventional places on the page. The aesthetic presentation of the prose is not a gimmick though, it fits the story being told, offering a visual look of what a decaying body and mind is going through during moments of the end. Booker blurbs often rely on cliché comments about how a work reimagines what a novel can be, but in the case of MAPS, Mortimer truly does this, presenting a very personal and intimate story of life’s end we have read before in a truly imaginative form that offers new insights into what grief feels like and how we process it. A remarkable work, the best novel I’ve read this year. I hope it makes the shortlist.

I admired this work more than I enjoyed it (though I did enjoy it, just not at a 5 star level). Not even quite sure how to review it without spoiling it, but I've never read anything quite like it before, and I really want to discuss a number of elements that I have questions about. Like I really have a lot of questions that beg discussion. The components I really thought elevated this book was the imagination/originality, the use of language, the very realistic portrayal of the human characters (as opposed to the disembodied voice). If it were a bit shorter, this would be an amazing book club book, and honestly, I think it also has the makings of a book that could be used in so many ways in an English lit class. It says a lot about the human condition. It didn't really tear at my heartstrings in the way I expected in that I wasn't ever crying or even close to that . . .which I expected in a book about death and illness. Honestly though, I think this might be the Booker prize winner. It's not my favorite of the ones I've read so far, but I do think it is the most deserving in many ways.

I wish I could give this book more stars than line the galaxies hauntingly lyrical and deeply emotional, maps is a novel that sinks deep into the soul, pulsating through each vein and system of the body - making it easy to understand exactly why mortimer's debut has made the booker longlist. those who have experienced the insidious nature of a loved one's terminal illness may find this novel triggering and difficult to power through. at times, i felt so choked up, i could barely read the words on the page. however, despite the raw subject matter, there are many more cards at play in mortimer's hand. grief, love, motherhood, illness, poetry, religion, nature and etymological beauty sweep across the story of one woman's life, from coming-of-age to illness. haunted by her religious upbringing as a pastor's daughter, lia's adulthood is a far cry from her past. devoted to her only daughter, iris, and her career as a children's book illustrator, she finds contentment in her family, stable marriage and raising a sharp-minded, unique daughter. until she receives the news she's been dreading - an old phantom is coursing through her body once more, hellbent on forcing lia to confront her past, her mistakes and her truth. as time slips away, buried secrets threaten to strip the fabric of her marriage, family and body apart. this is not like any other story of sickness, nor is maps like any other debut. mortimer's prose is a shining light of individualism. her poetic prose plays with the imagination, twisting complicated medical jargon into a symphony of beauty. rich, haunting images capture the startling emotions that follow someone's painful decline into sickness. at times, mortimer's words are so visceral, so realistic, the body can't help but contort in response. yet i remained captivated by every letter. i enjoyed the novel's unusual structure too, oscillating between past, present and the internal, buried self hidden deep within. the characterisation remained stellar across the board - from iris' witticisms, to the stoic anne, reliable harry and of course lia herself. the anthropomorphic body too, added a different dimension of complexity, which will entangle some readers and delight others. there is so much more to say about this simply spectacular novel, but no words can truly do justice to this staggeringly impressive piece of writing. the experimental style, lyrical prose and emotional subject matter will not be a winner in everyone's eyes, but mortimer has made a fan for life in this reader.

While the structure of this was quite flighty on audio, the truth is the two narrators are just so fantastic, I quickly resolved to re-read the book on the page in the future, for now going along for the excellent ride. Otherwise, the preoccupation with pinning it down would have, I know, interrupted my concentration. And what a ride it is. The voice in this is exquisite, and I think humanizes death in a way that really worked for me. The cancer as character managed to characterize the person diagnosed even further, imbuing certain qualities not always on display, but clearly present. I found it emotionally present and consistently excellent at interrogating a pretty difficult theme. Every range of emotion in found and annunciated with the interplay between plot beats and character interactions, contrasted with the voice and story of the cancer. I think the ending of this particularly worked for me as well. Which is a hard thing to really nail, for something as existential as it becomes. But it was poignant, meaningful, and supplied a the rare, earned end. I knew 2 chapters in it would probably be a 5 star read, and that I’d want to re read it again on paper whenever it becomes affordable. In Canada it’s $27 CAD for the paperback, which just isn’t tenable for my budget, but there’s a March 2023 edition dropping that’s $13 via Blackwells, so my eye is on that.

I was sent this book by Netgalley in return for an honest review. I have just put down my Kindle and am lost for words. This book was so unique, powerful and emotional. I have never read a book that describes illness and death in such a way and I douby if I ever will again. Lia, her husband Harry and their daughter Iris are a perfect, happy family. Iris is starting secondary school and navigating friendship groups, finding her place in an hostile school yard, finding refuge at home. Everything is fine until the news of Lia's illness rocks them. Then everything changes. As Lia's illness progresses we learn about her life, her relationship with her parents, her first true love, not from Lia, but from her disease. Lia's illness is given its own voice in the novel and becomes another character. It describes in horrifying detail the ravages it makes within her body, and it passes comments as it replays her memories. While at its hear there is malevolence, there are sometimes flashes of 'humanity' when for once it gives Lia a second's peace. This is not a sickly sweet story, it is honest and raw and this is the reason why it affected me so emotionally. There are no sugar coated phrases, we see the characters in pain, in grief as each of them faces the future and Lia, in particular accepts her past, forgives herself and in turn is forgiven. The book is not written in a wholly chronological way, we are taken backwards and forwards with the disease almost guiding us at it travels through Lia's body. At times the written is lyrical, at times like something from a medical textbook. But throughout it is interspersed with word patterns. I loved this book, it broke me. It treated its subject matter with reverence and humour but never once did it allow me to abandon Lia. I was holding her hand throughout.

As usual I did not read a synopsis of this book. If I had I'd have probably not given it a second look. However as it was a Netgalley audio version and I saw that one of the narrators was Tamsin Greig I thought I'd give it a go. Lucky me that I did. This is a thoroughly beautiful, heart wrenching, heartbreaking book. It is the story of Lia who is dying of cancer. The audio version is split into Lia's voice and that of the cancer (Tamsin Greig). The prose is incredibly lyrical and the voice of the cancer is all that you expect - wheedling, strident, angry, cautious, secretive. It is a brilliant piece of writing that lends itself beautifully to audio. We are taken through Lia's life where the cancer is always present to some degree. We see her difficult childhood, her first love, the consequences it has and her life afterward with a child of her own and a loving husband who also have to deal with the destruction the cancer causes. The knowledge that she is dying brings her estranged mother back into her life which is not without its difficulties. All in all this is a truly magnificent piece of work and I'd highly recommend anyone to try the audio version. (I've since seen a lot of reviews complaining about the ebook printed version so I feel doubly blessed.) It is a masterful work of art but it's not for the faint hearted. I have not lost a child but the scenes with Lia's mother are, nonetheless, devastating to listen to. We are all, in some way, touched by cancer and I lost my husband to it. This book spoke to me in a way others have not. I recognise that cancer - the one that hides itself only to return and take over. It is not an easy listen but it's worth the tears. Thanks to Netgalley for the audio version in exchange for an honest review.

Full YouTube Review - https://youtu.be/1JewM_aouls This is a book about a woman who has cancer and her daughter - If that sounds anything like a book you might want to read, get a copy of this novel. I am so impressed with the level of insight and quality of writing displayed my Maddie Mortimer, new instant buy author. This book will feel emotions you didn't even know you had. Hard to see this not winning the Booker Prize.

the voice of the non-human narrator was wonderful - reminded me of (and indeed, cited as an influence) max porter's crow in grief is a thing with feathers, i think this element of a kind of strange, shape-shifting, capricious, cruel(?), kind but always playful voice is something that i greatly enjoy' i liked it in crow and i liked it here. the lyrical quality of the voice was mesmerising, with a touch of strangeness and mischief, just wholly engrossing to read. and as it got more fragmented, the tragedy of her death really came through, in the pulsing, ebbing nature of consciousness in the last legs of life. a particularly masterful stroke in the gradual merging of the voice into lia - the first person eating into the third, after all, isn't that what a cancer is? some of the dramatic moments were very well done as well, one scene that struck me was the scene at the theatre, choreographing the characters and the internal narrative in sync with the external dramatic performance on stage, absolutely gripping and poetic. beyond these more playful, modern(?) elements, i really enjoyed the more 'traditional' elements of the family drama as well - in fact, it was these parts that moved me to tears. in particular, the difficult, barbed, but ultimately deeply loving relationship, between lia and her mother was immensely moving. a sensitive treatment of faith and religion especially, alongside a myriad of complex themes of friendship, family, love, etc etc (if anything, i think a few could have been pruned, although i do think they did come together in the end). wonderful wonderful book

Five glorious stars to this heart-wrenching masterpiece. Maps of Our Spectacular Bodies is the story of Lia at the end of her life, narrated by both Lia herself and the illness within her. It's a meditation on death (and life), and the memories and people who plague our minds—much like cancer plagues a body. I absolutely adored this, and it would be my Booker winner for sure had it not been bafflingly left off the shortlist.

breathtaking....

Favourite read of the year so far without a doubt. ❤️

safe to say this is one of the best books ive ever had the privilege of reading

What a wonderful surprise this was. I haven’t read a book that hit home more than this in many years. Or a book that hit me straight to the heart. Told in 2 voices, 1) Lia the mom and wife who has cancer and 2) from the cancer itself. Maddie Mortimer handles life as a mother, wife and cancer patient with such delicate brilliance that she created indelible characters. Husband Harry and daughter Iris are the 2 most important people in her life but Maddie Mortimer weaves her past with Matthew and her extremely religious parents in such intricate and entertaining ways. Loved the structure of the book. And I love that a first book this book is willing to take risks. Long listed for the 2022 Booker Prize.

Man oh man, I’ve never read a book like this one. Absolutely devastated but grateful? I wept and immediately called my mum. A moving portrait of a woman’s life, death, triumphs, secrets and failures. It sways between first and third person and the inside and outside of her body. All these voices come into union towards the end. (maybe showing how boundaries tend to dissolve with illness) Cancer as a narrative voice is daring. The nature of this voice breaks all the rules. It has a destructive core and moves recklessly in its landscape. This daring move helped me understand not only physical illness but other invisible things. What are the voices in our lives and bodies? How do they influence the self? How do we come to terms with this beautiful, painful mess? Maddie Mortimer handles life’s cruelest, most confusing questions with delicacy & creativity. Reading this felt like a physical experience. Propulsive and textual, as if moving through a map. I liked the relationship between prose and poetry. There’s cadence and rhythm. You sense a musicality of sentences as if the form and story are dancing with and teasing one another. I will think about the end of this book for a long time. I forgot to breathe for 50 pages, basically. The language is visceral. The words are coming from a different place. It’s indescribable and real. I felt pulled close to the author. It was like experiencing a very intimate moment in real-time. I acknowledged, as it was happening, utter gratefulness to be a reader. Several different stories punctuate the novel. There’s a lot going on at once. As a (somewhat-toddler) reader, this book challenged me to keep up. It moved from past to present, inside and outside, concrete to abstract swiftly. However, I couldn’t help but recognize myself in the nonlinear stream of consciousness. I just had to nod, be brave and jump in. Much like life. What a stunning debut. I bought this book and plan to read it again along with everything Maddie Mortimer writes.

This is a heartbreaking but hopeful novel .. written so beautifully.. and this is one that I went into blind.. and enjoyed it so much, so I’m not going to say much about it. I will say that this author did an outstanding job on character development. I especially loved George and Isabelle Walker.. the white land owners who employ two brothers who are emancipated slaves to work their land. This is set in a town in Georgia, just as the Civil War is ending and just after the Emancipation. So many topics in this book… an emotionally distant marriage, race relations and tension, murder, a gay romance. Just read this! 😊

“The Sweetness of Water” — the latest Oprah Book Club pick — unfolds in Georgia during the murky twilight of the Civil War. Union soldiers have marched through the state telling enslaved Black people they’re free, but that freedom exists in the ruins of a White society seething with resentment, determined to maintain its superiority. That this powerful book is Nathan Harris’s debut novel is remarkable; that he’s only 29 is miraculous. His prose is burnished with an antique patina that evokes the mid-19th century. And he explores this liminal moment in our history with extraordinary sensitivity to the range of responses from Black and White Americans contending with a revolutionary ideal of personhood. The story opens in a fugue of mourning. George Walker is wandering through his 200-acre wood. A Northerner brought to Georgia decades ago as a child, George never developed any sympathy for the Southern cause. But the end of the War Between the States brings him no joy. He’s just received word that his only son, who enlisted with the Confederacy, was killed in the final weeks of battle. He reportedly died in. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...

~This is why I read.~ During the first chapter of The Sweetness of Water I was reminded that this immersive storytelling is exactly why I read. Nathan Harris is a born storyteller, and The Sweetness of Water is a bold story that travels with ease in directions I never expected. About the book: “In the spirit of The Known World and The Underground Railroad, a profound debut about the unlikely bond between two freedmen who are brothers and the Georgia farmer whose alliance will alter their lives, and his, forever.” The story opens with George Walker and his wife being informed they have lost their only son in the Civil War. Just prior, the Emancipation Proclamation is issued, and George finds two of his neighbor’s former slaves resting on his property. Little does he know then that Prentiss and Landry would become his closest friends and allies. I have many favorite things about this story, but my top favorite is all the empathy and insight. Nathan Harris put his whole heart into every word. No wonder this stunning book has been nominated for so many awards! Breathtaking! I received a gifted copy. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

A gorgeous debut novel, my first five-star read since June of 2021. The Sweetness of Water begins with Prentiss and Landry, two brothers freed from enslavement by the Emancipation Proclamation, who seek refuge on the home of George Walker, a transplanted northerner white man who wants the brothers’ help to farm his remaining acres of land. The novel focuses mostly on George and his wife Isabelle and the escalating tension they face with the white people nearby – consisting of plantation owners who recently lost the Black people they enslaved, as well as returning Confederate soldiers – who do not approve of the Walkers’ more equitable treatment of Prentiss and Landry. Slightly parallel to this conflict runs a forbidden romance between two Confederate soldiers, Caleb, the son of George and Isabelle, and August, a well-connected son of rich parents who’s set to marry a woman. Nathan Harris writes so beautifully, especially in how he shows instead of tells about his characters’ interior and exterior lives. Though I felt skeptical at first when I realized the book would focus mostly on the white characters instead of Prentiss and Landry, I soon grew to care deeply about all of the characters in The Sweetness of Water. Harris crafts such distinct, well-developed characters with realistic limitations and a relatable desire to do better (excluding the racist white people who were straight garbage, just gonna say it like it is). His writing reminded me of Adam Haslett’s in its emotional depth that felt both direct, understated, yet so moving at the same time. I am always impressed by writers who can craft fiction with important social commentary that still centers the characters’ growth and relationships with one another – Harris accomplishes that with this debut without a doubt. One of the two themes I loved the most in The Sweetness of Water is: what does it look like for white people to actually be allies/accomplishes for racial justice (and even more broadly what does it mean for any privileged group to try to advocate for oppressed groups)? Harris does a masterful job of showing how George, a well-intentioned progressive-minded white person, actually really messes up in his initial attempts to be an ally which has serious, devastating consequences for Prentiss and Landry. I think this idea of performative allyship and advocacy is increasingly important in a time when some academic institutions, corporations, etc. are embracing “diversity and inclusion” while still perpetuating racism and other forms of bigotry. What does it mean to truly walk the walk and put your life and resources on the line for justice? Though I’m still processing the profound way Harris writes about this question in The Sweetness of Water, I feel pretty certain that Harris avoids any white savior tropes and instead shows the complexities of racial solidarity, including the uncomfortable parts. I also loved how Harris shows how white queer men can be extremely racist and problematic. Yes, the summary of this book mentions a queer romance between two men, though I think this romance is definitely secondary to the Walkers’ relationship with their own whiteness and the bigotry of their neighboring white townspeople. In fact, the romance, or at least one of the characters within the romance, exemplifies how just because someone is marginalized doesn’t mean they’ll actually support other marginalized people – they may just cling to whatever power they do have to advance in their lives. Reading about this part of the book reminded me of a time when I tweeted about white gay men perpetuating racism and sexism, and a white gay man I used to respect direct messaged me and essentially said that “not all white gay men are like that” and tried to gaslight me. He unfollowed me when I stood my ground and asked him why he isn’t trying to call out/in white gay men who are racist and sexist instead of defending himself to me. While I recognize this little Twitter exchange is by no means comparable to the anti-Black racism experienced by the characters in this book, I share the story because I think pretty much all of us can practice more intensive introspection about the ways we put down other marginalized people intentionally or unintentionally, even if we ourselves are marginalized. Harris also writes about important themes including softer forms of masculinity and the bonds between mothers and their children. His prose never feels intellectualized or didactic though. He shows us these characters’ desires and their struggles and lets their actions and emotions convey the deeper themes of the novel. Highly recommended and I’m definitely keeping an eye out for whatever Harris writes next, if he does want to write another book.

Book on CD performed by William DeMerritt In his debut work, Harris explores rural Georgia shortly after the end of the Civil War, when slaves had been emancipated and Union soldiers moved in to enforce the terms of surrender and “reconstruct” the South. Prentiss and Landry are freedmen, brothers released from the only home they’ve ever known. On leaving the plantation where they were born and raised, they find refuge with the neighboring landowner, George Walker. George and his wife, Isabelle could use the help of two able-bodied men. So, they agree to hire the brothers, and allow them to live in the barn. This is a marvelous debut. Full of complex characters and gripping scenes that move the plot forward. Harris explores moral dilemmas and the difficulties of trying to do the right thing against a post-war upheaval and tension. He gives us characters with strong principles who can be blind to their flaws, some of whom overcome and some who give in to those weaknesses. If I have any complaint, it’s that the villain(s) in the piece are so obviously villainous. But that is a quibble. I loved George, Landry and Prentiss. I came to appreciate Caleb and his struggles. And Isabelle … this is one strong woman. William DeMerritt does a fine job performing the audiobook. He has a lot of characters to handle and he gives each a unique voice. Unfortunately, two of his voices sound remarkably like real persons – one sounds like former President Bill Clinton, and another like John Wayne. This was definitely a distraction as I could not help but picture those famous persons in these roles. Harris’s writing still shone through, and I may re-read it in text format.

I loved this novel. A slow burner to start with but once you fall in love with George Walker you are caught, like Isabelle and Clementine and Ezra were. A man who talked too much, who had some strange ideas and who never conformed to what society expected but a man who inspired a deep loyalty in his friends and family. This novel is far more than a book about slavery and the post civil war Deep South it is a tapestry of human relationships and emotions. Harris shows us imperfect marriages, imperfect sibling and parental relationships and yet those imperfections are, like the Japanese art of Kintsugi where broken things are fixed with gold to highlight rather than hide the cracks they are joining, beautiful for it. Prentiss and Landry wrestle with their own demons of childhood trauma and in Landry’s case torture, would Landry’s wordlessness have ceased had his older brother shared with him his dreams of their mother coming and walking him up and the crushing sadness when he woke and realised that she was still gone? Would Prentiss have found more inner peace if like Landry he had dived in a fountain, learned to love nature and learned to knit? And what of Caleb raised with all of the adoration and overprotection of being an adored only child of his mother and a semi stranger to his father? August raised with pride, expectations and an arrogance in his name and station that he dare not forget or veer away from. What life could Isabelle and George have had with other partners? How could Isabelle have coped with everything meted out to her without the deep female friendship from Mildred that later became a kind of comradeship on top of their existing friendship. Isabelle’s growth throughout the novel was authentic and compelling and I was left aching for more when I turned the last page. Many female characters written by male authors only make it feeling 95% authentic, all of Harris’ characters are the full 100%. His ability to empathise is clearly one of his major strengths as a writer. I have made up my own endings to many of the strands in the story, my favourite being Clementine and Elsy finding Prentiss again and I can see Isabelle’s fountain and feel Landry’s approval and pride in it every bit as much as he felt for the socks. Nathan Harris wins points from me for including knitting, especially my beloved sock knitting. It is a love language all of its own and it is utterly timeless and without boundary. Man or woman, black or white, living in the 19th, 21st and any other century stretching back to Ancient Egypt knitting has provided peace and meditation while also providing warmth and conveying love. Better than any debut novel has a right to be' - says Richard Russo, Pulitzer Prize–winner and New York Times bestseller I couldn’t agree more and can’t wait to read more of Mr Harris’ work.

A beautifully written, very gripping story that had me totally involved: keen to see what happened next, surprised by some of the turns, and anxious that things turn out well for the characters at the heart of the story. That story is set in Georgia just at the end of the Civil War. Prentiss and Landry are brothers, recently freed slaves, who end up working the land of George and Isabelle Walker, thoroughly decent people who are grieving the loss of their son to the war. That riles up the local townsfolk, who are disgusted by the decent wage the brothers are being paid, and their neighbour, whose former property the brothers were and who doesn’t seem to have grasped the principle of emancipation, insisting that the “boys” be returned to him. Violence is always just a heartbeat away and soon makes an appearance, unleashing consequences for the brothers, the Walkers and the whole town. Sweeping, moving, written in prose inflected with an “old-time” flavour that makes it feel very much in keeping with the story’s setting. Lovely.

My review, first published with the New York Journal of Books: https://www.nyjournalofbooks.com/book...

After letting The Sweetness of Water simmer in my mind and soul for a day, I am left with a feeling of deep satisfaction on so many levels. Nathan Harris is a newly arrived maestro on the literary scene and he has delivered a work of genius. Bravo!

I am brought to mind of Ta Nehesi Coates and Colson Whitehead as I read this well crafted story. Historically planted, inticrately woven, and beautifully brave and sad.

Extraordinary, in-depth characters, beautiful language.

A stunning debut novel from a 29 year old man. Just amazing. I went in blindly not really knowing what the story was about, just that it was Oprah's pick for July. It is set in post Civil War Georgia, with amazing character development, persons running the gamut from compassionate to dastardly in their actions. Each was so beautifully described and developed, I could see each of them standing before me. It revolves around the farm of George and Isabelle Walker, George a transplanted Northerner, and how they make their way in the south dealing with repercussions of the war, having lost their son and trying to move forward. Many cannot accept the life of freed slaves living amongst them and are insistent on moving forward keeping things as they have always been. George and Isabelle hire brothers Prentiss and Landry, recently emancipated, to work on their farm much to the dismay of their southern, previously slave-owning neighbors. From this point on there are secrets and heartbreak, hope, compassion, friendship and respect just a beautifully told story. Bravo Nathan!!

"Nobody tells you what an intense experience loneliness is, how it has a lot of variations..." Let me start by saying I didn't know what to expect from this book. A Jazzy cover, a title implying a romance, few reviews online for me to pre-empt a narrative. None of that mattered when I jumped in to this book. Following the life of protagonist Tom as he drops his daughter at college and takes himself on a long trip across country meeting friends of old and strangers at basketball courts - this novel plunges straight into male mental health and what it's like getting by when there's nobody there who knows what's happening inside your head. I freaking loved this book for how matter-of-fact and easy to read it was whilst simultaneously touching on deep topics and the tragedy of your life passing you by. Highly recommended if you want to read something real and something that will resonate.

I absolutely loved this book. I can’t stop thinking about it. A dad drops his kid off at college then just carries on driving, visiting old friends from his youth on the way. I do love a road trip story and this fits that bill but it is also so much more. It’s heartfelt and poignant and I now want to read everything this guy has ever written!!

When Tom’s wife has an affair, he resolves to leave her…as soon as their youngest child has graduated high school. Twelve years later, with his daughter finally off to college, Tom takes a road trip to plan his next steps. No one was more surprised than me by how much I absolutely loved this book. I mostly read female authors, and “moody, middle-aged guy finds himself” books are very much not my thing. But this one just worked so well. Tom is flawed but likeable, and the way he perceives the people around him is incisive without being cruel. The class dynamics (Tom’s wife is from a very wealthy family while he’s a law professor with lower middle class roots) and shifting family roles in this book feel so true to life. The ending was not what I expected, but I think it was a perfect way to end the story. If you like family dramas infused with a bit of humour, like Long Island Compromise, you’ll enjoy this book.

Honestly. More books like this. Inter connected moments to attach to. Relationships. And high emotion.

Another Booker longlist read, deceptively deep - an easy, fast read that IMO provides a fascinating look at the psyche of a middle aged white man and how privilege has granted him apathy.

Oof, this book has gotten me so twisted. I’ve been writing and thinking and rewriting and rethinking and just sitting with my emotions with this one. And I’m still grappling with all that is in here. There is a lot to unpack so let’s just dive in. (Get it?) WHALE is a saga that opens with Chunhee, a young, mysterious and very large brickmaker, as she returns home from prison. As we are introduced to Chunhee, we learn how she came to be through her mother, Geumbok. And from there, we learn a lot about this mother-daughter duo and all those they encounter. The detached tone, magical realism, and animals that communicate all give this novel a very fable/folklore-like feel. I loved that. As readers, we all love storytelling and I especially love the old-fashioned kind, the ones my mom would read to me at bedtime. And this felt exactly like that. And often times with fairytales, there are dark and sinister themes brewing underneath. This one was no different. Ranging from comedic satire to the downright offensive, this book has commentary on so much. The political landscape of a post-war Korea, the onset of capitalism and entrepreneurship, the stigma towards obesity, and the deeply patriarchal society that is Korea. There is a lot of violence in this book and mostly towards women. And it is delivered with an indifference that can only be attributed to a distant narrator, a characteristic of storytelling that I personally love. The nonchalant delivery of violence, especially when it’s repeated over and over again, can and will be problematic and triggering for some. For me, the violence wasn’t a big issue since I chalked it up to the setting and time of the book. But I was left with questions. Why didn’t the violence bother me as much? Was it my internalized sexism? Was it my affinity for romanticizing Korea’s history and culture? Was I truly comfortable with the way the women were written? By a man? The truth of the matter is that I absolutely loved this book. I loved it while reading it and loved it after. BUT, as a reader who wants to read critically, I have to and want to examine the author’s intent even if that means confronting my own biases. The author said in an interview that this novel was inspired by an image of a very large woman and was “drawn to the tragedy of her physical corporeality”. This “tragedy”, I can only assume, is rooted in Korea’s weight-biased culture that breeds toxicity and discrimination towards obese and fat people. Chunhee, our very large brickmaker who is the “size of water buffalo”, endures a lot of emotional and physical trauma throughout the book. Is this a satirical take on Korea’s sentiment and treatment towards overweight people? As I am unfamiliar with the author, I can only take his work at face value and how it felt to me. To me, the violence was a head-on critique of Korea’s misogyny and obesity stigma. And as this book spans generations, the violence against women stood out even more when set against the modernization of Korea’s society. The world was progressing, but why weren’t the people? The author describes the book as a revenge play, but I would describe it as a story about the life and role of women in Korea’s history. The violence, harm, and utter indifference for their lives is alarming but absolutely real. And that is why understanding the intent of the author is important. Even if this was written almost 20 years ago and also set in a post-war Korea, the reprinting of modern classics, as this is considered, should be viewed with a critical lens, at the very least for the sake of discourse. A lot has changed in the 19 years since the original publication of this novel, and with the rise of the #MeToo movement in South Korea, I think it’s important that we talk about this. And I don’t have the answers. I only have more questions. This review isn’t a “I loved it, go read it” type of review. It’s a “I loved it, but it’s complicated so please read it so I can discuss with you” review. Because, I did love it. I thought the translation was phenomenal. It truly did not feel like a translated piece of literature. It felt like this was exactly how this story was supposed to be written and told. Highly visual and plot-driven with a full cast of characters, I was completely drawn into the story. So, the takeaway? Read it. And call me when you’re done. Thank you to the publisher for the copy. All opinions are my own.

I’ve never read anything like this book. It’s like new folklore, though it sounds like it could’ve been a story that was passed down many generations. It was tragic and poignant, haunting and beautiful. It broke a part of me and built me back up and then did it over and over again with every chapter.

One night, Cheon Meong-Kwan was walking in the city, and a young girl asked him the directions to a place. The thing was, she was quite big, built like a giant. He told her the bus route, and she asked him how long it would take to walk. He said it was too far to walk was too far to walk, and he offered her money for a bus ride, but she refused to take it. Though he worried for her, as he puts it, in this very insightful interview (which is best read after reading the book) “All I could do was watch her disappear into the night.” Luckily, he did more. The image of that girl stayed with him, and he set out to write a book about a giant girl who is pure at heart – and “uncherished”. He doesn’t quite explain how the idea of bricks came to him, but he linked it to the girl. Then, he created the stories of her mother and a woman from one generation earlier. This story grew into Whale, which was published in Korean in 2003, but translated into English only in 2023. Chunhui is the giant and pure-hearted girl; Geumbok is her beautiful, energetic, and enterprising mother. An unnamed one-eyed woman who magically controls bees with a whistle precedes these two. This is not the right book for readers who see the depiction of female body parts as proof of misogyny, or who have issues with readers being directly addressed. It is also full of violence, rape, and abuse. One reviewer pointed to these lines, which appear quite early, as proof of misogyny (Chunhui is bathing after having slogged and got a hand pump to work): She was nearly one hundred eight centimetres tall, and her two thick, strong, oak-like legs supported her wide trunk. She weas truly magnificent to behold. As she had never been pregnant, let alone given birth, her breasts were taut and her pert nipples were placed high on her wide areolas. Before this, we have Chunhui returning to a desolate, ruined brick kiln, after a hellish stay in prison and a hard journey on foot, and reminiscing about her days as a child, when she was ignored by her mother and found love only with her stepfather. Whale is, remarkably, a book that has foreshadowing at every turn, but is still full of surprises. In the very next paragraph, there is this: Her stepfather would stand by her by the pump when she was small to bathe her, even though she was already close to a hundred kilos. He would tell her, Chunhui, with your strong legs, you can tread on clay better than anyone else, and with your strong arms, you can pick up more bricks than any one lese. That is your greatest fortune.. This is a book that – in the author’s words – alternates between an age of barbarism and one of civilisation, without being strictly historical. For those who insist on slotting it, “East Asian magic realism” might come closest, but it is not a label that I like. It is Geumbok who straddles much of the narrative, as she flees a tiny hamlet and an abusive father, enters into a staggering range of relationships (both sexual and asexual) to grow into a successful entrepreneur and innovator, transforms the sleepy town of Pyeongdae, and finally ends up transforming herself, before meeting an unexpected end. As the story hurtles along, we are treated to aphorisms. For example: Emptiness began to creep into people’s hearts, and Geumbok made money from that phenomenon. This was the law of capitalism. There are “laws” interspersed every few pages; the writer says that he meant these as a kind of inside joke. Life is sweeping away the dust that keeps piling up, Chunhui is told at one point. Death is nothing more than dust piling up. Was (Chunhui’s) body merely the root of all pain, a uniform of divine punishment she could never take off? What was her soul like, trapped inside her large body? To what extent did she understand discrimination and indifference, or the hostility and disgust that came her way? If any of you, dear readers, are curious about these aspects of her life, it means you have the talent to become a storyteller, because stories are an explanation into a life filled with injustice… Only those with illegitimate intentions attempt to explain the world in simple terms, aiming to define everything in a line or two, such as: All persons are equal in the eyes of the law. There are wry comments about a General in the North and one in the South. This is a discussion between politician and Geumbok: “We have to kill all the reds.” “Do we have to be so extreme?” “Yes, because if you keep a Red alive, he’ll kill ten people. So killing one red is the same as saving nine people’s lives.” “I thought you said ten people.” “Well, we have to kill that one red.” Chunhui does find love – from her stepfather, and from another friend of hers, with whom the book ends. There is really a lot to like in this unique work, for readers who can set aside hard-boiled notions about the male gaze. Ironically, as the author says in his interview, his main characters are women, while the men (with one exception) are weak and unimportant.

Occasionally, there comes a novel that shakes you out of your reality, places you in its reality, and makes you want to live there forever, no matter how trying the circumstances, how matter how brutal the lay of the land, and no matter how beastly some characters who inhabit that world. Whale was one such novel for me this year, and maybe for a long time to come. Whale is a book that breaks all compartmentalisation of the novel. It is literary and then it isn't. It is fantastical, and then you see reality overflowing from its pages. It dons the hat of magic realism, only to for the magic to be stripped off early on, to make an appearance again and again, leaving you confused and begging for more. It is full of emotion, and stoicism at the same time. It is funny, mostly emotional, heart-rendering, brave, strong, weak, reflects the societies we inhabit, speaks of women and how they are treated, is also cognisant of people on the gender spectrum, makes note of objects having a life of their own, shows how movies can change people, and how success and failure are only ever transient and not constant. Whale is a book that made me feel so much. I didn't want it to end - as stereotypical as this statement gets about things we love; it couldn't be truer for me when it came to this read. I am so glad that this was translated so beautifully from the Korean by Chi-Young Kim – she takes the novel and makes it her own. She tells the story of Geumbok, of her daughter, of her lovers, of the twins, of the elephant, and of everyone in the novel. It stops being a novel by Cheon Myeong-kwan and takes the form of being the translator’s novel, at least for me. That is the beauty of translation, of how it can resonate with the reader because of the expression and words, and emotions chosen by the translator. Of how they make a work theirs and see it for what it truly is. The plot of this book cannot be explained by me, and I shall not try doing that. What I will say is that you would be missing out on something extremely special by choosing not to read this one, and it will be a huge loss. So, choose wisely. That’s all.

Amazingly, for a book with such strange stories and a wide multi-generational view, this story was beautifully crafted and very easy to follow. I can see why there has been so much interest surrounding it – the characters are fascinating, the story telling is imaginative, challenging, beautifully rendered, and the whole novel is soaked in a fantastical Korean tint which gives it a literary strangeness that I loved. There are lots of traumatic and cruel moments in Whale, none of the characters has an easy ride, but for me there was more than enough light to balance out the dark. Very much recommend it.

5/5 STARS The moment you start reading Whale, you are immediately immersed in its powerful fast-paced storytelling that describes a life with lyrical prose, unforgettable characters, vivid imagery and emotional fulfilment. For some reviews, you have to think of grand words and nuanced writing to have a tenth of an impact of the actual book. But, this review is not going to be like that, because the book is not like that either. It’s not about reading between the lines or beyond the pages. It’s not about some deep social commentary. It’s not stream of consciousness where you have to concentrate to read a single page. It’s simply a story. Perhaps, the equivalent of a bed time fable, but designed for adults as an escape from our routine. It’s not an important book. But, I think its importance will be felt by core fiction readers. Yes, it has content where there would be a greater meaning attached, but it doesn’t have to be. It can simply be a story, and that’s what it was for me. As a reader and reviewer, there is no respite from all these intellectual books. I typically don’t read a book just because everyone is reading it or because it’s a bestseller. I read only because I want to read it. Even so, that underlying influence always lingers. So, when I was reading Whale, I was very happily reminded of the reason I started reading books in the first place, and it was a wonderful reminder. We are led to believe that Whale is the story of Chunhui. And, what would a person be without the story of how they got there. So, Whale is actually the story of Chunhui’s mother Geumbok. A woman who I will think about whenever the topic of legendary fictional women is discussed. She went from being born in a little mountain village to becoming a businesswoman. I loved her intellect, I loved her ‘so-what? attitude’, I loved her leadership. I loved how she was fascinated by a whale and how she was a whale herself – larger than life, intelligent, solitary & who doesn’t mate for life. Whale has struggle and riches, loss and enterprise, helplessness and ambition, change and stability all in the backdrop of pre and post war-torn Korea. At times, it’s a satire but also magical realism. Some times, it’s just a mystery but also a memoir. A few times, it’s dark but humorous. But at all times, it is captivating in all its mystic glory. Full Review: Mindscape in Words

A book so good you’ll forgive it for being a square

A few weeks ago I was having a chat and complaining that I miss the days where I would be able to read a book in one sitting, something I did a lot of in my late teens and 20’s. It’s not a matter of time or daily distractions, those have always existed but I feel that I can only take books in small 100 page chunks. Well looks like Still Born broke that – I just sat in my armchair and read the whole book in a couple of hours. Just to get the obvious out of the way, this will be a positive review. Alina and Laura are friends, after many attempts of trying with her husband Alina is finally pregnant, while Laura moves into a new flat. Inadvertently, even Laura thinks she not really equipped for motherhood, she forms a bond with the next door neighbour’s son. Meanwhile Alina, going through the trials of pregnancy, learns that her child will have a brain defect and may die upon birth, something which changes her perspective towards life and her relationship with both her husband and Laura (as to be expected). Alina does give birth, and a successful one but I don’t think it’s right to tell the outcome as the book goes into more interesting territories after. When Laura moves into her apartment, she comes across a pigeon nest in her balcony. Throughout the novel the progress of the pigeons family mirrors the events happening in the book: nesting, birth acceptance, tragedy, disappearance, return. I thought this was fantastic metaphor for child birth and motherhood. One other rather poignant scene is Laura coming to terms with her mother’s habits, of which she was embarrassed of. It just hammers in the point that rearing a child is not easy and mistakes will be made. On Alina’s side motherhood takes on an even new dimension, where trial and error has to happen , which makes her relationship with her child fraught. Beautifully translated and flowing, Still Born tackles birth and motherhood in an original way. I remember when a good number of books on this topic were published and after a while they began to blend a bit but Still Born manages to stand out as a singular piece of work, it is nothing short of a masterpiece, albeit a gentle one where it’s poignancy eases itself into the reader’s psyche.

This was incredible. It needs to win the international Booker. I’m probably biased because it’s the only Latin American book on the list but I just loved this so much. I ‘accidentally’ read it in one sitting because of how wonderfully it was written and how immersed I became in the characters lives. Not going to get over this and will riot if it’s not on the shortlist.

This was a gripping narrative of a short period in the lives of two women, Laura and Alina, who initially have stated they do not wish to have children. Later, Laura, to ensure it doesn't happen takes the drastic measure of having her tubes tied while Alina changes her mind, becoming pregnant. What follows each of these decisions is not what either woman expects. Laura finds herself increasingly involved with the care and in the company of the son of a depressed neighbour, and is surprised by how this nurturing aspect awakens in her. Alina is given all kinds of dire expectations from medical specialists who pronounce on her unborn baby, causing her and her partner great distress, without reckoning on the will of a tiny lifeform that desires to exist. Meanwhile outside Laura's apartment a pair of pigeons appear to have been subject to a brood parasite. And Alina brings in a young woman as a nanny to help with her newborn daughter, a woman whose role at times usurps the natural mother, causing both appreciation and resentment. It is a story of the complexity of birthing and raising offspring and the unconventionality that certain circumstances bring, that can potentially create hybrid parenting situations, where one steps in for the other.

This was such a fantastic novel about the complexities of motherhood and the societal pressure to become a mother. The book follows the lives of two friends, Alina and Laura, and their opposite views on motherhood. Laura chooses to be sterilized, knowing she has no interest in children (much to her mother's disappointment), while Alina goes to great lengths to get pregnant with her partner. Sadly Alina faces every mother's worst nightmare and has to cope with giving birth to a baby diagnosed with a fatal condition. Beautifully written and and incredibly moving. This English translation will tug at your heartstrings and was also fantastic on audio. Highly recommended for fans of books like Come away with me by Karma Brown or What we carry by Kalyn Fogarty.

My favourite tweet from the Poet Laureate of Twitter - her first of September - https://twitter.com/TriciaLockwood/st... Now fully deserved winner of the Dylan Thomas Prize. I re-read this book (is it a re-read if the first time was an audio book?) following its deserved shortlisting for 2021 Women's Prize - now joined by a rare double shortlisting for the 2021 Booker Prize. I have to say that on a second (or first) read I think the book was even better than the first time Original review “Stream-of-consciousness…. Stream-of-consciousness was long ago conquered by a man who wanted his wife to fart all over him. But what about the stream-of-a-¬consciousness that is not entirely your own? One that you participate in, but that also acts upon you?” From your experience you know Patricia Lockwood to be (tick all the correct answers) a) Author of the memoir “Priestdaddy” and an highly thoughtful contributor to the London Review of Books b) Author of the harrrowing viral poem “Rape Joke” c) Originator of the Twitter concept of ironical sexts (sample: “I am a living male turtleneck. You are an art teacher in winter You put your whole head through me”) and author of one of the all time great literary tweets: @parisreview. So is Paris any good or not All three are true but depending on if your answer was more a/b (or even none of the above) than b/c may depend on how you engage with the first half of this book - a novel in which the the author aims with some success to re-cast cutting edge literary fiction for the world of Twitter, but largely by adopting and reproducing the memes of Twitter. The first person narrator of the novel is unnamed, but the book is heavily autofictional. Lockwood has remarked with some profundity that the reason that so much fiction is now autofictional is that Google allows us to discover that it is (whereas previously we would know of author’s lives only what they chose to reveal) – a quote I found out when Googling to see how much of this novel was autofictional. The narrator has gained fame in the Portal (Lockwood’s term Twitter - not as many reviews seem to claim the entire internet - given that the word “internet” is used at least once in proximity to the Portal) for a single viral tweet: Can a dog be twins?. Now her life seems to consist of two main parts – sitting on her chair participating in the newly emerging consciousness of the Portal and travelling around the world talking about the newly emerging consciousness of the Portal – and the first part’s plot matches this The plot! That was a laugh. The plot was that she sat motionless in her chair. The book is a series of (to quote Lauren Oyler’s narattor in “Fake Account”) “Necessarily short sections, simple, aphoristic sentences, more of an essay than a novel.” - a style that is familiar now from Jenny Offill (and others) and was parodied (slightly unsuccessfully in my view) in Oyler’s novel but which Lockwood and her narrator defend (with reservations) Why were we all writing like this now? Because a new kind of connectoin had to be made, and blink, synapse, little space-between was the only way to make it. Or because, and this was more frightening, it was the way the portal wrote. Many if not most of the sections are about viral tweets and memes, almost all I think taken from 2018, very little of which is actually explained - and I have seen some criticism of this. But then I can think of a book (a book of course referenced in my opening quote) which for full appreciation relies on an encyclopedic knowledge in one City on a single day in 1904 (or tens of pages explaining the references) and that is considered perhaps the greatest novel of all time. Returning to this novel - for those who haunted the internet that year to the extent of the narrator’s inhabitation of planet Portal (and who are likely the a/b of my introduction) much I think will be very familiar indeed and bring lots of knowing smiles that come when you get or are reminded of a shared in-joke (and so much of this section is about how the Portal is a form of shared consciousness and shared jokes and ideas – and of how difficult it is to convey that sense to future generations or to those not of the Portal). For those like me who did not – the choices I think are fourfold: (1) to ignore the memes altogether; (2) to cheat; (3) to google-while-you-read; or (4) (as a mid-case) to see which ones you can spot/recall. I read somewhere between the fourth (I was impressed with myself for example for spotting the reference to the “Cat People” short-story but it was a rare triumph) and more of the time the third approach – and would not recommend the first or second – as I think the memes and understanding them is important (see end of my review). Some – perhaps many - of the references themselves say something deeper I think about the themes that the author is exploring – sometimes in a way which is concisely explored (the book is full of eminently quotable aphorisms) and sometimes in an exercise left for the reader. One that intrigued me is a lengthy section describing watching a documentary of Thom Yorke singing “Creep” to a festival audience, a section which contains perhaps the second most insightful discussion of that song I have ever seen (the first of course to any member like me of the MTV rather than Twitter generation was by Beavis and Butthead). The narrator describes how Yorke’s almost palpable disgust at how a song which was originally and specifically around alienation/isolation is now hollered back to him by huge crowds of the very type of people that excluded him - suddenly allows him to recapture and re-own that very sense of detachment of what-the-hell-am-I-doing-here at the heart of the song. And of course one thinks of how Twitter has changed over time and how the narrator and Lockwood and continually trying to reclaim the original sense of freedom they felt there against their disgust at it being the very thing that permitted and enabled the rise of Trump (called in the book the Dictator). This first part of the novel is nothing if not bold in its claims to re-address the issue of what literary fiction should be in the 2120s. As per my opening quote the Joycean comparison is explicit – and reinforced by a visit to Dublin. And a trip to Scotland leads the narrator and her husband to sneer at tourists visiting a lighthouse only to realise later that the tourists are paying homage to Virginia Woolf. Another trip leads her to view an ancient cairn and reflect: “They said all you needed to be remembered was one small stone piled on another,” she thinks to herself. “Wasn’t that what we were doing in the portal, small stone on small stone on small stone?” The second part of the novel gives what seems a very abrupt and very deliberate change of gears. The narrator’s sister is pregnant and the LOL-ing at the baby’s head on its scans suddenly takes a dramatic turn after an urgent message from her mother asking her to fly back to the family home, as Doctors have discovered that the baby is suffering from Proteus syndrome (gigantism as suffered by the elephant man) and will likely not survive – the only real question being if her sister will also survive given Ohio laws which even make it illegal to induce a pregnant woman weeks before term. This leads to agony for her strongly, in fact militantly pro-life father – forced now to “live in the world he has created” (that itself an echo of course of the Twitterati’s dilemma in Trumps America) . And then unexpectedly the baby survives and the book takes an even more serious turn. Of course it is tempting to view the baby as a metaphor – a metaphor for the unexpected survival but also unusual and unprecedented development of Twitter as a medium, for the hyperbole and gigantism of the internet; or alternatively (as the narrator increasingly finds true feelings and depth of emotion in her love for her niece) as a metaphor for the difference between the Portal and IRL. And both of these metaphors are absolutely relevant. But also as the narrator remarks “It spoke of something deep in human beings how hard she had to pinch herself when she started thinking of it all as a metaphor.” – because this part of the book is given much greater emotional heft when you realise it is the least fictional part and that it is very much about Lockwood’s own experiences and her own niece. This section will I think be seen as emotionally moving by some and emotionally manipulative by others – I was much more in the former camp. It also of course causes the narrator to examine her use of the Portal: her popular and archly ironical persona there which has given her whatever measure of identity and recognition she has “If all she was was funny, and none of this was funny, where did that leave her?”; her realisation that the universal shared experiences of the internet do not match the individual or closely shared nature of personal tragedy “The previous unshakeable conviction that someone else was writing the inside of her head was gone”; the sudden realisation that the need to participate in a communal consciousness and affirm and even create a shared experience is replaced by the need to participate in her family's personal tragedy "She fell heavily out of the broad warm us, out of the story that had seemed , up until the last minute, to require her perpetual co-writing" but also a recognition that much of what she has learn through Twitter and the shared vocabulary and shortcuts she has established with her sister do enable them to find a way to navigate through and communicate during an impossible situation - “For whatever lives we lead they do prepare us for this moment.” But the strongest parts of this book are those which just examine the miracle of life, the smell of a baby’s head, that celebrate the small battles that her niece wins in a war that she was already destined to lose, even before her birth. And there are some hugely emotional moments - for example a diaper change, the second appearance of a poodle. There is so much else I could say about this book but I would urge people to engage with it. For anyone with an LRB subscription many ideas in the book were included in a British Museum lecture by the author shortly before lockdown (https://www.lrb.co.uk/the-paper/v41/n...) a lecture which the narrator also gives towards the end of the book in a nice meta twist. I first listened to this book in Audiobook form – where it is excellently narrated by Kristen Sieh who captures, I think, the tone of the book perfectly. If I had any criticism it would probably be to drop the accents – particularly the Australian one. One thing about listening to the Audiobook while say walking your dog (as I did) is that unlike reading a Kindle version, or a paper copy (but with a smartphone by your side) it is not so easy to Google the various references/memes etc and find yourself drawn into your own portal. Normally I would say that is a good thing – I aim (not always successfully) to use literature to escape from the omni-presence of the screen – but here I think this does not allow full identification with the underlying worldview at the centre of the book. And as for the cheating option – well this link (which I found after I finished helps) https://lithub.com/all-the-memes-in-p... but again I think turns entering the portal into staying on the outside looking in and so does not really work. My thanks to Bloomsbury UK Audio for an Audiobook ARC via NetGalley

I thought this book was brilliant but as I was reading, I found myself a little dismayed at the way I've heard a lot of people talk about it. So much has been made of the fact that this is a book in "two halves"--the first is an irreverent stream-of-consciousness-style series of pithy observations that mimics the experience of scrolling through Twitter, and the second is much more serious, focusing on a family tragedy. The temptation to explain this division away by describing the first half as Online and the second half as Real Life is understandable, but I think it does a disservice to what Lockwood has actually attempted and achieved here. I don't think it's about the division of Online/Real Life as much as it is a commentary on the inextricable fusion of the two. The narrator's framework for viewing the world through a heavily Online lens is established in the first half, and then the second half shows that in times of grief and hardship, she's still existing within that same framework even while being forced to participate in "Real Life" with more immediacy than she had been used to. While I certainly agree that this is structurally a book made up of two halves, I thought the second half of the book was such a natural continuation of the first that I really admired how Lockwood managed to achieve such a natural coherence of two completely disparate narratives. And as an Extremely Online Person myself, I loved how much nuance Lockwood brought to this commentary. I feel like so many books and articles and essays about The Internet fall into one of two traps, either extreme reverence or utter condemnation. The reality is so much more nebulous--The Internet is this bizarre world that we all live in separate to our real lives but an intrinsic part of our real lives and I thought Lockwood captured that beautifully. This is absolutely not a book that I'd recommend to everyone (frankly if you aren't interested in Online Culture, stay away), but it really struck a chord with me and I admired it so much more than I had expected to.

patricia lockwood is trying to kill me

And talk about it, it does! This Generation's Kurt Vonnegut--the prose, the wildness, the apocalypse... The best book I've read this year is composed of snippets, of very astute ninja sword observations, as audacious as historical document, but with the problems of today, magnified. The main character is learning of her privilege--okay. But the journey goes haywire, and the futurism of the author infuses a real, true space. Today, here. The second half is joyful, a rather stark contrast to the gritty Part 1. Beautiful, almost too close for comfort (its ....about National themes!) to those levels of prose-anarchy the great novels possess. This one is WINNER.

january 2024 reread review to come original june 2021 review: 4.5 ⭐️ RTC once i’m done crying -- This ended up being an incredibly impactful read for me, although I wouldn't have known that from the start. I went into this relatively cold, knowing only that it had 'two parts' and had a lot to do with online culture. Both of those things are very true, but what I wasn't prepared for was how absolutely this would destroy me. The first part reads much like a Twitter feed and contains plenty of internet humor; I was nearly cackling at both how relatable it felt and how Lockwood was able to condense and present these collective internet experiences. If you are not capital-O Online, I worry that you'll be lost and/or hate this. If you hate books about the internet, definitely do not read this. I personally found it to be a unique take on tackling the intricacies of modern technology and was looking forward to seeing where Lockwood took it. Enter, Part 2. I had absolutely no idea where Part 2 was going to go and won't discuss it too thoroughly because I think going in without expectations will give it the biggest impact. Let me just say that I think Part 1 sets the stage perfectly for the tragedy that unfolds in Part 2. It provides the foundation to understand how the narrator copes and to see the lens she views the world through. I feel like this will be a divisive book so I hesitate to recommend it to anyone who isn't fully convinced by the concept. I struggled myself a little bit towards the beginning to read this in anything other than small bits. But close to Part 2, I was able to sit down and and carefully inhale the rest. I really, really enjoyed this though and very much look forward to reading more by Lockwood. content warnings: (view spoiler) Blog | Twitter | Instagram | Facebook | Ko-fi

No One is Talking About This is bound to be a divisive novel. It's written in a style that's certainly not for everyone, and deals with the modern problem of the cultural phenomenon that is "being online." It's a widely and deeply debated cultural development, and as such, this novel will certainly grind some people's gears. But in doing so, it really will perfectly capture the conundrum it explores, the costs and benefits of being "very online", both individually and for society broadly. It's very much a novel in two parts. The first half deals in a very relentless, bitsy way, about what it is like to be "very online", to be completed absorbed in the world of online communication and identities. Lockwood is expert in highlighting just how intense, but also meaningless, so much of what happens in this world is. The fragmented narrative style perfectly mirrors the sound-bite nature of social media, and reminds us constantly that nothing lasts in this environment. I can't say I necessarily enjoyed this part of the novel, but it grated in the ways I expect Lockwood wanted it to. This world view contrasts really significantly with the second half, which I found quite moving and thought provoking. This part of the novel talks about the confronting reality of what this consuming but largely meaningless online world looks like, when juxtaposed with personal tragedy. Here is where Lockwood really shines, in her examination of a life in crisis and the inevitable reevaluation of what really matters and why. It is a novel that says as much about our drive to be in step with our peers and the rest of the world, as it does about what it feels like a means when we are out of step. It's a challenging critique of a modern cultural phenomenon, and a personally thoughtful examination of the human condition in the face of crisis. I thought it was exceptionally well-executed.

“No One Is Talking About This” is written in the english of our timelines and FYPs. It’s a fragmented shorthand that abstracts humanity into absurdity. The narrative feels like an endless scroll through your twitter feed: a ridiculous stream of consciousness interrupted by reminders that our physical world is deteriorating. It has the same energy as Bo Burnham’s “Welcome to the Internet”, both highlighting that content, some better some worse, act as this omnipresent entity, something we created that feeds back to shape us into something new. In the middle of moments that matter, the internet is just a tool. If someone went digging through your phone, could they rearrange the artifacts into something that resembled you? The internet has the power to both bridge the gap or enlarge it. It’s only when faced with humanity in its purest form that the limitations of online chatter becomes clear. “No One Is Talking About This” is a clever and heartfelt exploration of the weird wall of noise in our pocket and if you listen closely, you can still hear us, but if you look up, we are there, even louder. CW: infant death

There is writing so exceptional, so intricately crafted that it demands reverence. The intimate prose of Brandon Taylor’s exquisite debut novel Real Life offers exactly that kind of writing. He writes so powerfully about so many things--the perils of graduate education, blackness in a predominantly white setting, loneliness, desire, trauma, need. Wallace, the man at the center of this novel, is written with such nuance and tenderness and complexity. He is closed unto himself but wanting to open to others even though the people around him may not be fully up to the task. And there is a sharp undercurrent of the erotic throughout. The way Taylor writes about bodies in the physical world is one of the highlights in a novel full of highlights. Truly, this is stunning work from a writer who wields his craft in absolutely unforgettable ways.

Nobody is perfect. https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... I, for example, come extraordinarily close, and even I have my flaws. I work too hard. I give too much to charity. I cannot, FOR THE LIFE OF ME, WRITE A POSITIVE REVIEW. I can write negative reviews all day, and have fun doing it. Give me a book that is offensive, or dumb, or just plain bad, and we'll have the time of our lives roasting each other up. But when I love a book? Hoo boy. Bad news bears. The highest compliment I can give a book is that it reminds me of Sally Rooney, the author of my heart, and Brandon Taylor's clear and lovely style does that in spades. This book wrapped me up in it, affecting the language of my internal monologue and the nuances of my mood and refusing to allow me to put it down until I finished - keeping itself at the forefront of my mind even if I did manage to take a break. I read the author's short story collection earlier in the month, and while I didn't completely love it, I couldn't really shake it. Reading this seemed like a foregone conclusion, and was almost exactly like reading a novel-length version of some of my favorite stories from it. This story, of Wallace, a gay Black science grad student surrounded by whiteness and solitude, even when in the company of others, has so much to say about violence, about race, about loneliness, about sex and love and cruelty. Bottom line: Just read it!!! ----------------- book club update i loved this book when i first read it, and i loved it even more this time. and now i really need to talk about it with someone so please join book club discussion: https://www.instagram.com/p/C3i17w1LZpD/ 5 stars! ----------------- pre-review "when you know you know" - most people about true love / me about authors i like update: it was true. review to come / 4.5

I’m speechless. I don’t even know what to say about this novel. It’s my third time reading Brandon Taylor, although this one was actually his debut. Although I was pretty impressed with the others, it seems I’ve saved the best of the three for last. I’ve been sitting here trying to put my thoughts into words and it seems so incredibly difficult. How can I say that I felt I’ve lived Wallace’s life when I haven’t? His experiences are not the same as mine. He’s a gay black man. I’m a heterosexual white woman. He grew up in the Deep South; I grew up in New York. Yet, Brandon Taylor manages to let me get so close to Wallace that I believe I know him almost as much as I know myself. I can understand how he feels. That’s the power a gifted writer has over his or her readers. “… he had begun to feel, this summer in particular, something he had never felt before: that he wanted something more. He was unhappy, and for the first time in his life, that unhappiness did not seem entirely necessary. Sometimes he yearned to trust this impulse, to leap out of his life and into the vast, incalculable void of the world.” Making that leap is no easy feat, particularly when you’ve lived a life where those that should have been your greatest protectors have failed you immensely. Wallace has tried to leave his past behind by entering a graduate biochemistry program at a Midwestern university. He finds himself, however, in a predominately white city in a mostly white program. He has a group of friends that he hangs out with yet from whom he feels set apart. The constant ache of longing with the nearly simultaneous desire to be let alone is striking. He desires intimacy but fears to get too close, to reveal essential pieces of himself, his history. His friends don’t recognize his struggles. Racism rears its ugly head. Friends are presumptuous enough to tell him how he feels. They don’t want to understand him. Likewise, with all of his internal focus, sometimes Wallace fails to notice the very real pain of others. There seems to be a lack of empathy running rampant in our world today. It truly saddens me. “This is why he keeps the truth to himself, because other people don’t know what to do with your shit, with the reality of other people’s feelings. They don’t know what to do when they’ve heard something that does not align with their own perception of things.” A lot of this story revolves around the academic life. Wallace has reached a point where he is no longer sure what he wants from life. Who can’t relate to that at one time or another? Should he remain in this graduate program or should he call it quits? The academic life is a tenuous shelter from the outside, or “real life”. He becomes involved with another student over the course of one weekend and the pace quickens to such a tense climax that I could not set the damn book down! “He understands violence, even if friendship is beyond him. Just as he can feel the coming weather, he can discern from shifting tides the shape of violence on the horizon. It is his native element, his mother tongue – he knows how people can maim each other.” The writing here is penetrating and achingly painful. It’s remarkably crafted by one who understands human nature with all its bruises and beauty. I sighed with relief when this ended. I hope for the best for Wallace. He is unforgettable. He’s an imperfect but genuine character. Just like those we encounter in real life. “Eventually, they are all just people going about their lives, shopping and eating, laughing and arguing, doing what people in the world do. This too is real life, he thinks. Not merely the accumulation of tasks, things to be done and sorted, but also the bumping up against other lives, everyone in the world insignificant when taken and observed together.”

This is an outstanding novel about opening up, letting oneself become a complete, real person, despite past trauma or societal expectations. "If you don't hold it back, if you don't dam it up, it will spread and take and drown. The past is not a receding horizon. Rather, it advances one moment at a time, marching steadily forward until it has claimed everything and we become again who we are; we become ghosts when the past catches us. I can't live as long as my past does. It's one or the other." Brandon, please write more novels because I want to spend more time with your characters than your short stories permit. And I think you need that also.

Came to this book to re-read after reading FILTHY ANIMALS, a short story collection that I adored. Taylor's Wallace seems an indelible creation to me, a fully realized character, and the fine campus novel that emerges around him, full of dramatic characters and complex situations and plenty of biology, is secondary to the pure pleasure of the lead, and of the voice. It's a memorable debut.

Longer review to come. Thanks so much to Riverhead Books for the review copy, clearly I adored this book and I’m so glad I got to read it.

WOW Brandon Taylor's debut novel Real Life left me with such a bookish hangover. After finishing the book, I felt like my world was rocked, I had to sit with that feeling for a moment. In Real Life we meet Wallace, originally from Alabama, he moved to the Midwest to pursue a degree in biochem. As a black gay man from the South, Wallace took the first opportunity given to put some distance between him and his barely there family. An introvert at heart Wallace tries to come out of his comfort zone by trying to be a part of a circle of friends, majority of which are white, all are trying to live some semblance of a "real life". Brandon Taylor knows how to write. For a debut novel he came out swinging. He brought the character of Wallace to life in the most tender, unique, vulnerable and honest way. I believed the story Brandon Taylor was telling even though it was fiction. He writes with authority on loneliness, racism, trying to find yourself, performing for people and trying to fit in. It was so real. I found myself getting so riled up at various scenes where Wallace was treated badly or gaslighted. I felt so much for the character Wallace because I have around some Wallaces in my life. A well written book that deserves to be read with awe. I cannot stop singing praises to this book.

FINAL REVIEW: Real Life follows Wallace, a young Black and queer Biochemistry student enrolled in a predominantly white school and living in a predominantly white town. Throughout the novel, I was burning with a quiet rage due to the circumstances Wallace finds himself placed in, such as being on the receiving end of casual racism. A fascinating dynamic is that several of the casual racist remarks Wallace endures comes from his circle of (white) friends. Taylor does an excellent job of showcasing why Wallace, a passive character, feels helpless during these situations, he’s a character without a voice. I could relate. As a person who grew up in a predominantly white suburb and attended a mostly white school, this made for some really uncomfortable reading. I loved that Taylor was not afraid of making Wallace unlikable and problematic at times. It would have been far too tempting to write him as an all-suffering angelic martyr. He’s frustratingly selfish at times. Another prevalent theme is the complex notion of sexuality. And what exactly is sexuality anyway? Here are all the roles sexuality takes on within this text: There is the liberation, confusion, and shame of sexuality; the nervousness about sexuality; the curiosities of sexualities other than ones own; the sexual pain, pleasure, neediness, danger, and selfishness, too. The plotlines depicting these themes are graphic, volatile, intricate, but most importantly, worthy of deep analysis. From the moment Wallace’s weekend love affair begins, we know that it is “all wrong.” It’s possessive and problematic and will inevitably head into calatimous territory. Reading about it may mess up your moral compass, have you questioning what exactly is it that you’re witnessing. Who is the villain in this story? Are there only villains? Are there no villains at all? (Oh and read this book for the painfully awkward dinner party scene. Oof). In awe. https://www.instagram.com/p/B_VGeN1Ak...

This was a difficult reading experience, to the point where I put the book down at 54% and switched to a high-concept SF novel for a breather. Like ‘A Little Life’ by Hanya Yanagihara, ‘Real Life’ deals with the consequences of trauma, both institutionalised and personal. This means it is a thoroughly depressing read. Exceedingly well written – and in only five weeks, according to an interview I read – but still very depressing. The same interview mentioned that Brandon Taylor disdains descriptions of his work as being ‘raw’ or ‘visceral’, as this is part of the ‘white gaze’ he is trying to subvert. It is incredible how gay fiction has matured from simple ‘coming of age’ and ‘the aftermath of AIDS’ stories to dealing with complex issues of systemic racism intertwined with the fluid dynamics of relationships, again both personal and professional. Then again, is it condescending for me to say so, as if gay literature has lacked any relevance or resonance to date? And what exactly is ‘gay literature’? It is not as if ‘Real Life’ is aimed only at a gay audience. The relationship, if one can even call it that, between Wallace and Miller is exceedingly toxic, and portrayed with an unflinching honesty that is as brutal as it is devastatingly sad. This reminded me of ‘Cleanness’ by Garth Greenwell, another relentlessly dark contemporary novel dealing with certain pathologies affecting its gay characters. Are Taylor and Greenwell the vanguard of a new era of ‘warts and all’ gay realism? Of course, that is probably an unnecessary generalisation, not to mention an over-simplification. But neither book made me crack a smile, or in fact feel very good about myself. I suppose that is the ultimate point: Neither Taylor not Greenwell coddle the reader or resort to the kind of relationship shorthand we have gotten so used to in the romance genre. Yes, this is ‘raw’ in all its connotations. Taylor probably does not like that particular description as it implies a lack of control on the part of the author, when in fact this is exquisitely written, with a deftness and attention to detail that is, well, just like real life.

This book was a surprise! Not sure why low ratings as it is written so brilliant that I couldn't stop listening! The characters, the conversations.... they are so good! The plot itself is not something extraordinary but the writing is so good that covers all the shortcomings in the story itself.

SECOND READING REVIEW: I did not plan to finish this book so fast, but like my rereading of *Cleanness* earlier this year, I now know I have found my reading sweet spot. *Real Life* by Brandon Taylor is just perfect to me. I've already reviewed this book in Dec 2019 (5 super bright 🌟s), but what strikes me about this story STILL is the expert way Taylor explores how men communicate with one another. I find that few books truly push their male characters into emotional conversations with one another, however awkward and cruel they can be. Usually the communication is nonverbal, or the lack of communication is what propels the plot. Here, though, men feel and it is messy and they stumble as they try to name their feelings. I remember having complicated feelings about the character of Miller last time, and those feelings were unearthed once again, but I think I have more sympathy for him now. On one hand I see him as the anti-Willem (readers of A Little Life will know what I am talking about here), but now I also see him worth my compassion. And I'm glad I read him again. Wallace is of course a brilliant character and my connection to him is still paramount. Taylor explores queerness, intersectionality, race, otherness, and privilege with grace and bite and insight. But I ultimately think this book is, at least for me, about men---and how we deal with trauma, understand friendship, navigate emotions, and find self-worth. It's not hyperbole to say that this novel is one of my favourites of my adult life. FIRST READING REVIEW: I tend to get a little personal in my book reviews, considering reading is a highly personal act for me. I typically read not for "escape" but for self-illumination. But when books like the upcoming novel by Brandon Taylor, *Real Life*--books so in tune with how I live and fear and love--come along, I almost freeze up to talk about it. My immediate response when I started reading was that Taylor writes amazing dialogue between men. The restraint, often amid great emotional feeling, of many of the male characters is rendered in an almost painfully real way. But the book's most tremendous power, though, lies in the interiority of its main character, Wallace. Those who know me know that *A Little Life* is my favourite contemporary novel, and much of that comes from the brutal and bold examination of Jude St. Francis' traumatized psyche. Taylor does similar, equally powerful work with his introverted graduate student Wallace, who must learn how to make sense of the past, face racism and homophobia and fear of failure, and live in the "real" world amongst friends and potential lovers. Both *Life* novels are books about the male body, but Taylor's book goes farther than anything I've read--a visceral examination of the queer male body and how it can sabotage and complicate a queer male heart. *Real Life* was a heartbreaker but also a JOY to read--mostly because it's so damn relatable: the way we fail as friends and lovers, the way we sell ourselves short, and the way we don't make room for the stories of the people in our lives out of fear of connection and the way telling those stories can, to a large extent, set ourselves free.

I hope this book wins the Booker prize. It won't, but I still hope it does. Taylor introduces the reader to a protagonist that many of us would never meet in real life and makes him come alive. Wallace is a graduate student, gay, and black, and I just loved his character. This book highlights how hard it is to be different while showcasing the natural empathy that lives within all of us. His characters were not caricatures . . .they were so well rounded, the bad and the good residing in each. Relationships ebbing and flowing like they do in real life. It's an emotional story that is restrained, and I liked the tension. The plot could have been a little more complete for me; I definitely was left with questions. But I'd pick up another book by this author without hesitation. UPDATE: I've been thinking about this book all afternoon. I'm upgrading to 5 stars. It's a subtle book that illuminates the hard truths of human nature. Seriously hope this book wins the Booker.

I was drained after reading Real Life as I accompanied Wallace on a weekend that was filled with micro and macroaggressions, entitlement, perceived acceptance, impostor syndrome, science (written in such a way that is so understandable), and academia (and all the hurdles that accompany Black people and POCs in it). It was tiring to accompany a Black gay man surrounded by white people and having to watch as the unperceived (by them) slights were hurled his way. Tiring because I was on the outside and couldn’t do anything except quietly rage. It felt too much like having to swim against the stream and I was immersed in the experience with Wallace and I watched as he thought about how much it wasn’t worth to speak his thoughts out loud. It just took too much wasted energy on words and thoughts that wouldn’t be heard. Wallace is a much better person than I am though because he sees people’s humanity. He sees beyond generalizations of straight, white, male and sees the person behind it all. My favorite parts of Real Life were when Wallace is alone and he shares his thoughts with the reader. The literary voyeur in me felt special in having Wallace share such intimate parts of himself that he kept hidden from the rest of the world. I couldn’t help but think of A Little Life when reading this story because I felt as protective of Wallace as I did of Jude. There was a shared trauma that is carried over in this book and that was hard to bear but harder to have Wallace carry it. I felt so much rage, such deep seated rage against the people that antagonized Wallace and I wanted to seriously conjure magic to go into the book to beat everyone up. Yet, I know that what Wallace experienced is a reality for so many and he’s not telling his story waiting on you to save him. He just wants you to listen, he wants someone to look at him and see Wallace. I want to thank Wallace (and my booksta friend) for hearing me out even when I was wrong, for fighting for Miller and for the love story that filled this book. Brandon Taylor is a captivating writer, the nuances shown in his writing are ones that you won’t want to miss. This book will hook you, it will heighten emotions in you and it will show you an experience that is a reality for so many. Taylor’s use of animals throughout his book as mirrors to depict emotions and experiences felt in the book reminded me of Guadalupe Nettel’s “Natural Histories”. I felt it was beautifully woven and executed in the book. It’s definitely the book of 2020 and I can’t wait for everyone to read it.

with emotion: fuck academia “he could say any of the things he has wanted to say since he came here, about how they treat him, about how they look at him, about what it feels like when the only people who look like him are the janitors (…) he could say one million things, but he knows that none would matter. none of it would mean anything to any of them, because they are not interested in how he feels except as it affects them.” real life sat on my shelf for ages. in a time where i have once again lost my ability to read while waiting to see how Life and Other Things pan out, i didn’t expect any book to hit me at all. we follow wallace, a queer black biochem student in a predominantly white midwestern university. there, he contemplates his life, his past trauma, his misery, & his very existence in a world he’s on the outskirts of. i don’t think i’m capable of feeling normal about academia. my blood pressure skyrocketed like every ten pages. academia triggers my fight or flight. the inherent racism, classism, & power dynamics topped off with being a queer person of color makes me want to stand under boiling water. i constantly wanted to scream at every microaggression & injustice hurled at wallace. how casually racist his friends are, how they constantly sweep things under the rug. i stewed in that hopelessness, unable to do anything but watch wallace take it & take it & take it. strange then that i loved this book this much. i’d tell you that lit fic scares me, but that’s now untrue. perhaps it’s my quiet depression or the bleakness of the world but the more i grow lately, the more lit fic draws me in. perhaps i love anything reminiscent of bryan washington’s words: raw & stripped bare. like everything above, this novel is such a mess of contradictions: simple yet messy, ugly yet beautiful, hopeful yet hopeless, blunt yet lyrical. this book isn’t long. all of that manages to happen over the span of a weekend. it shouldn’t work, but it does. it’s so masterfully done. & just like real life, there isn’t much of an ending. there’s just life together, passed back & forth to try to alleviate the awful pressure of existing.

As someone who has spent the majority of the last 5 years in a lab setting, this one hit hard for me. Being a perpetual student has is lows, and this book captures the lab politics and isolation perfectly. Wallace hides himself in his grad work , but deep down he knows he is lost. He continues to float aimlessly because it's easier to stick with the devil you know than enter the real world. Is grad school where optimism dies? How do you unpack years of folding in on yourself? This is the only book I've come across that unpacks racial prejudice in the biomedical research setting and for that reason alone this book feels so important to me. I personally did not like Miller's characters, but I was happy to read how his relationship with Wallace furthered his arc. Wallace's development was definitely the high point of this book for me. The writing is meticulous and precise, which can come off pretentious at times, but it fit perfectly with the cutthroat and demanding grad school setting. As far as I'm concerned, this should be required reading for all grad students.

4.5 A very quiet book about navigating marginalization, exploring the process of being othered. It felt that there could be more story at times, with all the action taking place over three days, but what's there is sharp. The set pieces (the two over meal exchanges) are really masterful writing of dialogue, capturing the tension beautifully.

Update 14/09/21 It is shortlisted for the Booker now. I hope more people would become familiar with his work. It is a great book and his 1st novel The Story of a Brief Marriage deserves more attention as well. Update 27/07/21 This book has made the Booker 2021 long list. I am very happy for this author. I hope more people would discover him after that. I think I’ve finally found my favourite young writer working in English today. Four years ago, I’ve read his debut novel The Story of a Brief Marriage and was smitten by it. That novel has shown the possibility of depicting beauty and terror at the same time. It was a fair share of violence there, but at the same time the novel possessed a mediative quality humanising those people who hardly felt human themselves anymore. No direct violence in this one. It is about the art of letting go. Letting go one’s love, past, even one’s life if it is meant to be. Also it is about being in the present; how different this is from seeing the minutes, days and events slipping by in a rapid succession. I adore a slow-burning, introspective style of his writing. He manages to focus one’s attention in a moment and keep it there while the moment reveals itself like a bud of a flower. “What for lack of a better word was sometimes called love, he had realized that night, was not so much a relation between two people in and of themselves as a relation between two people and the world they were witness to, a world whose surfaces and exteriors gradually began to dissipate as the two individuals sank deeper and deeper into what was called their love. Falling in love, or what deserved to be called falling love, he had realized that night, was not so much an emotional or psychological condition as an epistemological condition, a condition in which two people held hands and watched in silent amazement as the world around them was slowly unveiled, as the falsities of ordinary life began to thin and dissolve before their eyes, the furrowed eyebrows and clenched jaws, the bright colors and loud noises, the surface excitements and disturbances all dropping away so that what remained—time stripped bare—was the only way the world could truly be apprehended, so that even if this condition did not last, even if it was lost, as eventually it is always lost, to habit or circumstance or simply the slow, sad passage of the years, the knowledge that it has imparted remains, the knowledge that the world we ordinarily partake in is somehow not quite real, that time does not need to pass the way we usually experience it passing, that somehow it is possible to live and breathe and move in a single moment, that a single moment could be not a bead on an abacus of finite length but an ocean that can be entered into, whose distant shores can never be reached.” Another thing I liked that in this novel, he does not use a dialogue at all. And without it, he still manages to create very vivid sense of interactions between his characters. The one of the themes and the one I always find fascinating is the nature of memory and forgetting. At the end, we are hardly in power to chose what we remember and what we forget both personally and historically: "Deliberately or not the past was always being forgotten, in all places and among all peoples, a phenomenon that had less to do with the forces that seek to erase or rewrite history than simply the nature of time, with the precedence the present always seems to have over what has come before, the precedence not of the present moment, which we never seem to have access to, but of the present situation, which is always demanding our attention, always so forceful and vivid and overwhelming that as soon as one of its elements disappears we forget it ever existed." However, there are moments from our life that will always stay with us and suddenly would resurface whether we want it or not. He has found a beautiful metaphor: perhaps it was not just images of beauty that clouded one’s vision over time but images of violence too, those moments of violence that for some people were just as much a part of life as the moments of beauty, both kinds of image appearing when we least expected it and both continuing to haunt us thereafter, both of which marked and branded us, limiting how far we were subsequently able to see. This has reminded me of an interview I’ve read with a scientist studying memory. She was explaining that people who went through a traumatic experience or more rarely some striking positive event do not remember it. They practically re-live it for all intents and purposes everytime time their brain brings it over. Not surprising it limits their ability to “see” anything else in a broad sense of the word. I can keep talking about this author and his two novels for a very long time, so much he impressed me. I can mention for example the way he composes his novels which is somewhat different from the recommendations I’ve read about in this book A Swim in a Pond in the Rain: In Which Four Russians Give a Master Class on Writing, Reading, and Life for example. And I am so glad that it is! "Story. Creating a well-rounded character. Setting. Dialogue. Historical context. I try to pay attention to these things—I do try—but they’re always afterthoughts. A lot of these other things accumulate, they find their place through a process of accretion, and they’re deposited in different waves each time I go through the text. Sometimes things occur to me, and I’m like, Oh, I can just add this. I write over drafts. There’s no first draft—I have a little center here or a little center there, and then I just go over it, and each time I do, more material accumulates until I find a way to connect those islands into something. I have in my mind that the reader expects the character to be believable or the story to be interesting. I have this little voice in my head that says I need to try—but those elements of novel writing are not what I am interested in." (this is an excerpt from his interview you can find here. ) However, I would stop for now. I just share one more observation. I find quite difficult to formulate this one, but I try as it is worth it. I found both of his novel very relatable. And, it might sound strange. His character here is a young Tamil man. The novel unfolds in Deli and Shri-Lanka. There is nothing superficially in common between us. But his yearning filled me with yearning. His memories have sent me very far down my very personal memory lane that again has nothing in common with his on a superficial level. I guess I am trying to say that it is relatively easy to write about a struggling mother of two in a such a way that a struggling mother of two reading it would see herself on the page. But it is much trickier and much more valuable to write something so universal that people could relate to without sharing any background, race, identity or suchlike.

Shortlisted for Booker Prize 2021 Anuk Arudpragasam's A Passage North is exceptional both in the style of writing and in its topic. The protagonist Krishan, a Tamil man hailing from Colombo, takes a long train journey to a village in Northern Sri Lanka to attend the funeral of his grandmother's caretaker, Rani. Most of the book is basically his thoughts during the journey. Krishan ruminates about his life and that of others, and we go through a meditative journey of identity, choices, trauma, and life and death. There is very little dialogue throughout the book. It's a stream-of-consciousness, flowing from one thought to another, moving to and fro timelines, from his student days in India and his short yet passionate relation with Anjum, to his family with mother and grandmother in Colombo, to the war-ridden past of Sri Lanka and its ever-lasting effect on Rani and countless others. There are parts where he thinks about different stories, from ancient India to recent Sri Lanka, and relates those philosophies with his life. The prose is lyrical and beautiful. The story covers a lot of grounds, it does it with surprising poise. The main backdrop is clearly the aftermath of the decades-long civil war between the Sri Lanka govt and the Tamil Tigers. Early in the book, Krishan thinks about his college days when he first got consumed guilt about being safe and relatively unharmed by the bloody war while his people were suffering in his own country and how it drew him to social work post-war. I found this part particularly touching, and relatable because at some point or the other this guilt about being safer than others touches most of us. The history of the war is peppered throughout the book, and at times it's brutal and bloody. The aftermath is most obvious in Rani, who lost both her sons in the war and is suffering from PTSD and depression. Rani's loss of interest in life in contrast to Krishan's grandmother's efforts to cling it casts light on age and yearning for life. Having a grandmother of similar age myself, I am amazed at how well some of Krishan's grandmother's behavior is written. Then there is Krishan's relationship with Anjum, her sexuality and personality, and Krishan's vulnerabilities regarding their relation. It was one of the most honest and sincere depictions of a relationship that I've read in some time. The book ends with Rani's funeral. It might seem graphic to some readers but watching a pyre burn does bring very similar thoughts to mind. I am honestly surprised at how many things I found relatable even though it is set on a very different backdrop from what I've ever experienced. The writing is brilliant. I saw many reviews saying the sentences are too long, which is true. But fortunately, I listened to the audiobook and it didn't bother me at all. Maybe this book would be better to listen to! Either way, it's a brilliant piece of work and highly deserving of making the Booker shortlist.

Have you ever encountered the type of read that feels like home, that lulls and soothes, inviting you to step outside of the flow of time, if only for a little bit, hitting you with the force of its revelations, the sentences unending, like an ocean, immersing you gently but kindly, in the warm embrace of its wisdom? When such a book finds its way into your life, it is inevitably a meeting of the minds, a drawing of attention inwards, a Proustian journey through time and memory, exploring the passing of time, but even more so, those catalytic forces that lift us from the circular daydream of the everyday, that rupture the fabric of reality, briefly but decisively, whether as a result of love or grief or illness, forcing us to confront, perhaps for the first time, our neglected peripheries. For though the book is grounded in the violent history of Sri Lanka — in particular, the crimes committed by the Sri Lankan government against its Tamil citizens — it is a universal story at heart, a folding of time into prose, of trauma into language, an act which requires not only attention to silent forces, but also to ancient and mystical undercurrents, not least of all the messages inscribed in the shape of the clouds, and the invisible temples erected in our minds. The result reads like an incantation, an act of seeing and of being seen, and a reminder of the vastness of the universe, a sense that “the world we ordinarily partake in is somehow not quite real”, and that despite our wounds and ours scars, we are still capable of this act of devotion, of attunement to the present moment, which, when transcribed in the manner that Arudpragasam has done here, becomes an experience so raw and pure, so earnest and hypnotizing, you don’t want it to end. Mood: Meditative, mystical Rating: 10/10 Also on Instagram.

I do not yet have all the words for this book. It obliterated me. If you are a person enjoys philosophy and especially feels it intensely, maybe you will understand if I say it hits in the way that truths about life can ruin your peace of mind. I was kneeling before these words. I am wary of recommending it to people because it is not a book for everyone. It is a challenge, almost a punishment you have to commit to, because for 300 pages, the plot is not much more than a man on a train ride in Northern post-war Sri Lanka and attending a funeral; and not even a funeral of someone he is particularly close to, but his grandmother's caretaker. It has long, at times even tedious, paragraphs with excruciating detail about the most minute activities, like smoking a cigarette. There is no dialogue. You can lose yourself in these details, and the many tangents, so it is tough to identify where the broader story is heading. As a result, it feels like there is barely any plot at all or character development. Instead, it is like being inside someone's mind while they are meditating. Krishan, the main character, is reflecting on his life and the lives around him. How they are in some ways universally human, while at the same time carry the distinct and painful difference of being devoid of peace, suspended between past, present, and future because of unimaginable violence, trauma, or deeply complicated love and friendship. I am worried about recommending this book to friends to learn they do not resonate with it as strongly as I did, though I understand why not everyone can or will. I will think they missed out on one of the most poignant pieces of literature I have ever read.

A PASSAGE NORTH (2021) is a hypnotic novel set in Sri Lanka. The protagonist, named Krishan, is a young Sri Lankan man who lives in the southern city of Colombo. One day he receives a phone call and is told that Rani, his grandmother's caretaker, has died. Apparently, she has fallen down a well by accident. Krishan decides to travel to the North of the island to attend her funeral. A long, bloody, civil war had torn apart this region not so long ago and this novel is, in part, about the legacy of war. Three-decades of civil war have left scars everywhere: Rani lost both her sons and could never recover from the trauma and Krishan's father was killed in it. This is not a plot driven novel. The traumatic historical context is evoked by a spellbinding prose as Krishan muses about the past, while he calmly weaves the past into the present. The reader follows the narrator's interiority as he meditates about his own and his country’s past. Arudpragasam's prose is sedate and slow, but for some mysterious reason, he manages to build an unlikely suspense for a novel where not many things happen. In fact, I felt rather bereft when the novel ended. I wanted to keep listening to this perfectly mesmerizing voice reflecting about his life and his suffering country for a long time. This is such a wonderful, rewarding novel which I would recommend to patient readers who don't mind the absence of plot.

There isn’t any book quite like this on the Booker longlist. It’s beautiful, elegant, understated, moving, melancholic, such a perfectly well-executed book. The thing about this novel is that even though it taught me a lot about Sri Lankan history, it managed to teach me so much about myself as well.

“The present, we assume it eternally before us, one of the few things in life from which we cannot be parted,” so begins this impressive second novel of Sri Lankan (Tamil) author Anuk Arudpragasam. The slow and thoughtful prose of A Passage North is not for everyone (what is?), but it’s highly rewarding. A Passage North opens when Krishan gets word that the former caretaker of his grandmother, a Tamil woman from up north, has died. It’s unclear whether her death was accidental or suicide. The troubled woman lost both her sons in the civil war and obviously (logically) never really recovered. Krishan receives the news, just after he has also received an e-mail from his ex-girlfriend (sort of), Anjum, whom he met while studying abroad in India. Their relationship ended because she preferred a life of activism (in gender and politics) over the comforts of conformity and a stable relationship. Krishan takes the long and slow train north to attend Rani’s cremation (and offer the family some money) and we follow his rambling reminiscences and pensive meditation. On identity and loss, on time and remembering, on… ...well, it's a long train of thoughts. Krishnan, the narrator, remains vague, distant and detached, but through his thoughts we meet the various strong women who have changed and shaped his life, a life in which he himself seems to have taken a backseat. He is inactive and longs for this to change, but doesn’t quite know how. In search of the present and everything that is lost, there is only this yearning. (c) picture by BennyV, Sri Lanka, 2011

"It was funny how similar desire was to loss in this way, how desire too, like bereavement, could cut through the fabric of ordinary life, causing the routines and rhythms that had governed your existence so totally as to seem unquestionable to quietly lose the hard glint of necessity, leaving you almost in a state of disbelief, unable to participate in the world." The epithet of "quiet novel" is quickly overused but Anuk Arudpragasam's second novel fits the bill like no other. I had read and liked his debut not long after it had come out in India but this is on a whole another level entirely. A Passage North wears its Bernhardian influence right on its sleeve. It has delicious run-on sentences, a preference for natural digressions, a profusion of philosophical asides, wherein the book is as much about a journey to the north, covered in physical distance, but also a journey within the human psyche, across time, bridging present to past, a succession of brief moments tying us to this earth, with only snatched instants of self-awareness. As he admits in interviews, for AA story, setting, well-rounded characters, historical context, and dialogue are always afterthoughts even though he tries to pay attention to them. What does he really focus on then? These concerns retreat to the background as one begins reading the book and allows oneself to be lulled in. It's a novel of the interior, filled with introspective rumination, within the domain of the mind where, reflecting on the life of Krishan, it passingly brings up Sri Lankan history, politics, war and its attendants. Memory is the mover and shaker, time the sole arbiter, and caught within is Krishan. Lyrical and meditative, this is a wondrous, beautiful work.

Longlisted for the Booker Prize, A Passage North has a quiet intensity that flows through the narrative taking readers through the remains of war, shared personal traumas and it’s after effects over time and distance. There is no conventional plot that pitches characters against or with one another. Rather, it is a tapestry of lives, experiences and feelings that come together through Krishan, the main protagonist who by allowing the reader into his meditations on the events that unfolds around him, brings to us a shared discovery of the ephemeral nature of life. Anuk Arudpragasam’s writing style settles on you gently, starting with a domestic scene that does not give much of a hint of what he has in store for the readers in the words and pages ahead. The events that take place around Krishan, his thoughts in the present and at times, shaped by his experiences and that of others around him in a not so distant past along with where it has left him are all narrated to us from an earlier moment in time. This is an elegy to the scars of a nation and its people caught in a war brought on by various factors: the shift and changes in the geographical landscape, the physical evidence of way on the bodies of people and deep within their minds, reflected in the availability of medicines for depression in chemist shops and the lines of people for psychiatric care: all heavy themes and yet, they emerge in the narrative in subtle fragments and then gets woven into the flow of the writing. A Passage North is a book that will make the reader and person in you pause to take stock of how you feel about the things animate and inanimate around you, to take note of how you feel and look back at your feelings and to look for meanings in the ties and relationships that you see around you. Full review up on my blog: https://bookandconversations.wordpres...

I loved Anuk Arudpragasam's hauntingly beautiful portrayal of the effects that warfare leaves imprinted on the soul and the geography of a country, and of the people who inhabit it. The story is told from the quietly introspective point of view of Krishan, a young man searching for purpose and meaning in life, as he reflects upon Sri Lanka, the war that tore it apart, and the relationships and characters of a few people who stood out to him: an ex-girlfriend, his grandmother, and his grandmother's grief-stricken caretaker, Rani. It begins when Krishan, living back in his childhood home with his mother and grandmother, receives a phone call informing him that Rani has died under mysterious circumstances, found at the bottom of well. As Krishan prepares for and begins his journey north for the funeral, be also begins his reflections. The first part of the book focuses on his grandmother, her infirmity, and the finding of her caretaker, Rani. In the second part, Krishan muses on his past relationship with a passionate activist. Their brief romance was one of those intense loves that comes around once in a blue moon and changes the course of your life. It was destined to end, but now, four years later, Krishan is brought to reminisce about her and her influence on his life, after receiving an email from for the first time. The third part of the book focuses on Rani, her grief, and her funeral rites. For me this was the crowning glory of the book. Interspersed were accounts of different media formats that had influenced Krishan: an ancient poem; an account of the life of the young Siddhartha; a documentary; etc. But none of them are gratuitously thrown in - they blend perfectly into the novel, adding value and weight to certain recollections or ideas that Krishan had developed. The novel is written beautifully, with lyrical sentences that flow on and on, but somehow always return back to the point seamlessly. It reminded me of the way Italians write, with their floral prose and endless sentences, but it was the first time I've encountered this style written in English. I was sceptical at first, unsure if it was doable in this language, but Arudpragasam handled it perfectly. I must admit, regrettably, that I didn't know much about Sri Lanka or the war it endured before picking up this book, but this story only made me want to learn more; and I intend to look into some of the books, poems and documentary that are referenced throughout. I particularly enjoyed the third and final part of the novel, in which Rani's funeral rites are described in detail. Not only was it interesting to read about how a culture different from my own deals with the heart-breaking inevitability of death, but all this external description blended perfectly with Krishan's internal meditations on Rani, her life and death, and life and death in general. There was a recurring motif, throughout the novel, about the concept of vision and the way that certain images, violent and otherwise, imprint themselves on our retinas (metaphorically) and how they are then superimposed over everything else we see. It was an interesting concept on the nature of love and grief, and how the two things are inexorably linked. The universal themes of soul-searching, grief, love and relationships made it so that anyone, from anywhere, can read and relate to this masterful storytelling. It's five stars from me. Looking forward to more beautiful prose from Arudpragasam.

"Between the forgetting that takes place as a result of our consent, which is a forgetting we need in order to reconcile our pasts and presents, and the forgetting that is imposed on us against our own will, which is so often a way of forcing us to accept a present in which we do not want to partake" A Passage North is a real tour de force, whereby Anuk Arudpragasam takes his readers on a reflective and philosophical journey, with the Sri Lankan Civil War (which ended on 18 May 2009) as a historical backdrop. The plotline is a simple one: Krishnan (a Sri Lankan who lives in Colombo and works for a non-governmental organization) receives a call and learns that his grandmother's caretaker, Rani, has died. He then takes a train to attend Rani's funeral in the north. Throughout the journey, Krishnan recalls his relationship with his lover, Anjum, his grandmother's struggle with sickness and her attitude towards isolation and death, his grandmother's relationship with Rani, and most importantly, Rani's background and past, in which she is heavily traumatized and haunted by the aftermath of the Civil War (whereby Rani's two sons were killed during the war). Underlying such a simple plotline, Arudpragasam utilizes his lyrical and poetic sentences, albeit lengthy, to highlight an ample of concepts such as memories, desires, death, trauma, feminism, classism, sexism, oppression, through the lens of the relationships between the characters, as well as the characters' background. Rani's character, though a minor one, plays a crucial role as she represents an amplification of the impact of the three-decade Civil War: "Trauma for Rani was something that had to coexist with all the various exigencies of daily existence". The Tamil diaspora, the experience in reconciling and forgetting one's trauma/struggles, the cancel culture adopted by the government in dealing with the Civil War, were all fleshed out in a subtle, restrained, and melancholic tone. What elevates this novel to the level of a literary masterpiece, is Arudpragasam's incorporation of various translated literature (such as the Tamil Periya Purānam, the Sanskrit The Cloud Messenger, a Sanskrit version of the Life of the Buddha) as well as the story of Kuttimani's death and the documentary entitled "My Daughter the Terrorist" with his own unique views and interpretation of these works. At the end of the day, A Passage North is Krishnan's journey where "he'd traversed not any physical distance that day but rather some vast psychic distance inside him, that he'd been advancing not from the island's south to its north but from the south of his mind to its own distant northern reaches". A Passage North is a powerful recount of the long history of violence in Sri Lanka that still lingers on the memories of the society. It surely is a beautiful literary masterpiece that deserves a spot on the 2021 Booker Prize shortlist. Without a doubt, a 5/5 star rating!

The freedom that Kuttimani desired, the freedom that perhaps all liberation movements sought, was not just thhe freedom that came when one could move freely over the land on which one's forbears lived, not just the freedom that came from being able to choose and be responsible for one's own life, but the freedon that came when one had access to a horizon, when one felt that the possible worlds that glimmered at its edges were within one's reach. Very few books leave you wanting for more, mesmerizing you with their prose and the effort the author has put in. A Passage North dives deep into the heart of the Sri Lankan Civil War, through Krishan and Rani, their contrasting lives and the challenges being a part of the Tamil minority in Sri Lanka. The book compels you to think about the grey lines created by the LTTE group and the Sri Lankan army, the war that was fought for an independent Tamil state and the racism they faced during the time. Violence is violence and can never be justified, but this stream of consciousness book takes it to the next level by talking about the lives of the general people affected because of the war and how all of us have a fate to decide based on our privilege. Anuk Arudpragasam is my favorite new author! Highly recommend this one!

The title of this thought-provoking novel promises a journey. Krishan, whose story it is, does indeed take a trip from Colombo into Sri Lanka's northeastern districts, the last stronghold of the famed Tamil Tigers during the Tamil war for independence in 2009. It's a journey requiring travel by train, 2 buses, and a taxi. He's attending the funeral of Rani, the woman who was caretaker to his grandmother. Haunted by the war and the loss of her 2 sons, she'd returned home only to die in a fall into a well which may have been accident or suicide. Krishan's journey is also spiritual. He'd once lived in the north as a social worker, and he connects with the Tamil region as much as he does with his grandmother's caretaker. News of Rani's death has caused vast tides of memory and feeling to wash over him. The novel is rich in the meditations filling up his travel. The novel's structure is an expansive block of prose without dialogue and as dense and as abiding as the ocean, and, like it, filled with swirling currents of ideas and human feeling. While thoughts of death and war are prominent, he's primarily concerned with love, memory, and time. What he fears is that they no longer hold meaning for him. Traveling to attend a funeral, what he seeks, though he doesn't know it exactly, is release from the burden they bring to his life. Love in particular gnaws at him. He's grown distant from the woman he loves, Anjum. A large chunk of the novel recalls their relationship a few years earlier, and it's here that the novel's large theme of eyes and vision first becomes noticeable. All experience, Krishan thinks, is taken in through the eyes. The lovers' gaze he and Anjum share at several moments in the novel is important. Rani's seeing the death of her youngest son is described as vision destroying her will to live as surely as the shrapnel which killed the boy. Eyes record landscapes and death and women's smiles and, mostly, they allow us to see existence we're not able to participate in. And at the end eyes containing a lifetime's vision and experience melt during cremation. Krishan's realization of this seems to be the destination of his journey. Fire, as Buddhism teaches us, can be purification. Krishan finds it in the north. This is a beautiful novel, stunningly and poetically written in sinuous sentences which go in all directions at once. It's a novel powerful in its conclusions. This is one of the best novels I've read in a long while.

A Passage North by Anuk Arudpragasam begins with the protagonist Krishan receiving a message informing him that his grandmother's caretaker, Rani, has died under unexpected circumstances. It comes at a time when Krishan is lost after receiving an email from his long lost lover, Anjum. These two messages and the memories associated with the two people occupy Krishan's mind thereafter. The book traces Krishan's reflections on the civil war that broke in Sri Lanka leading to the genocide of the Tamil population and how he remained unaffected. He suffers from the guilt of being barred from the plight of dreadful memories other inhabitants of Sri Lanka live with. Besides, as he travels to Rani's place for her funeral, Krishan contemplates his relationship with Anjum, an aloof activist, and tries to piece together his life and experiences. A Passage North is a poignant account of absence, longing, and grief. Grief - which is personal, political, and social. It has long brooding sentences, meandering thoughts, and barely any dialogues but amidst everything, some food for thought. Anuk has a way with words as he describes layers of identity, the elusive nature of time, war, ageing, and human relationships with grace and utmost finesse. I found myself thinking hard over Krishan's reflections for as much as I'd try not to, but I did find a piece of my heart in the words. No, this book is not for you if you want small sentences, an easy narrative, and a structured storyline for that matter. But A Passage North is for you if you have got the patience to stick through it, if you can give it the attention it commands, if you love words and are keen on diving deep.

As hoped, now longlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize! “It was only when looking at a horizon that one’s eyes could move past all the obstacles that limited one’s vision to the present situation, that one’s eyes could range without limit to other times and other places, and perhaps this was all that freedom was” A Passage North, the second novel by award-winning and Dylan Thomas Prize shortlisted Tamil Sri Lankan novelist Anuk Arukpragasam, deals with the legacy of the devastating thirty-year-long Sri Lankan civil war, which saw Sinhalese and Tamil as major opponents. The latter were spearheaded by the Tamil Tigers, fighting for an independent Tamil-speaking state in the NorthEast but eventually defeated in 2009 following a massive attack that many equal to a genocide and that ultimately left the country ravaged and wounded. Grishan is a young Tamil Sri Lankan employed at an Ngo in Colombo, the Sri Lankan capital situated on the southwestern coast. He has returned there from New Delhi abandoning his PhD after a relationship with Anjoum, a woman he met at lgbt events and film viewings. He has always lived far from the conflict but has been drawn back home, partially driven by guilt for having been spared: “He’d begun to cultivate once, more his sense of having a destiny in that place he he’d never actually lived, fantasising what it would be like to walk over the same land his forebears had, to help create our of near annihilation the possibility of some new and compelling future, as though living a life simplified in the way that only war can simplify he too would be able to find something worth surrendering to” At the beginning of the novel, a phone call announcing the death of Grishan’s grandmother’s carer Rani prompts a five-day trip to the North-East through a war-ravaged country to attend her funeral. During the trip, through his thoughts and recollections Grishan reconstructs the recent history of “his own poor, violated, stateless people”: a story – as we will learn -- of utter devastation because, apparently, the modern Sri Lankan state can only be built “in direct relation to the evisceration of the northeast”. But how can you tell the story of something that you have not lived on your skin, of things that are no more, of the aspirations that were annihilated, of monuments that have been reduced to dust along with the memory of what they represent”? Lacking first-hand experience of the conflic, in this compelling narrative Grishan often pieces together his vicarious, mediated experiences reporting his thoughts and visceral reaction: for example, he recounts how he learnt about events immersing himself in diaspora blogs and social media (he tells us of the experience of viewing the mutilated bodies on blogs, of reading about the massive refugee demonstrations and of their odyssey around the world, which is compellingly portrayed), as well as through films, documentaries, books, and the media, all acting as a particular lens. We learn, for example, that Visa Pillayar temple, where people now petition for Visas, has been so labelled by Google Maps. Vision, the possibility to envision a future, the nature of representation and the experience of the direct versus the mediated gaze are prominent themes I found very well developed and particularly interesting: from Grishan’s own experience, to Anjoum’s interest in film and accounts of the threatening male gaze, to the Tamil prisoner who is blinded to deny his only desire to be able to imagine an horizon for his people. Personal memories and family history find a place, too. While Grishan’s traumatic experience is one of distance, disembodiment and longing to connect, history finds its embodiment in the martyred body of Rani, who is precisely who we are honouring at the end of the trip: prior to her mysterious death at the bottom of a well, she experienced war on her skin, displacement, the loss of her sons and trauma. Her deep depression and psychic wounds resulting in years of electroshock therapy are a living testimony of the horrors of war. Indeed, in this well constructed novel, the symbolical journey through the history of the Tamil people starts with an image of “the painful first moments of entry in the world” with bodies firmly occupying space, and ends with the funeral scene of Rani’s body burning in a pyre, with “ feelings and visions, memories and expectations, all of which would take time to burn, to be reduced to soothing uniformity of ash”, quietly and inexorably vanishing. The few quotes I have inserted testify as to the beauty and the depth of Arudpragasam’s writing. This is a marvellous read on the different ways trauma affects people, a deeply political novel and a moving love letter to a wounded country: immensely beautiful, original, profound, visceral, meditative, philosophical and a worthy contender for literary prizes. Since it’s dense and slow I would not recommend it to everyone, but if you can make it will be a 5 star experience. I am grateful to Granta for an Arc of this novel via NetGalley.

Now shortlisted for The 2021 Man Booker Prize! ‘The specific path a life took was often determined by accidents, it was true, by the situation into which you were born, by an unexpected encounter or an unexpected loss, an unlikely glimpse or an unlikely wound, but people also carried their own clandestine trajectories inside them, trajectories whose origins were unknown and whose modes of operation were often invisible to the eye, but which were sometimes strong enough to push people in certain directions despite everything that took place on the surface of their lives.’ I’m afraid I won’t be able to do justice in my review of this book, especially since I haven’t read that much into the Sri Lankan Civil War, but this is one of the few books I’d like to give 5 star-rates this year. One thing that particularly stands out in A Passage North is the overuse of flashbacks. However, it’s not without reason that Anuk Arudpragasam utilises flashbacks in his story. Our main character, Krishan, is described as living a life remote from the conflict that was fought in Sri Lanka for more than 20 years between 1983 and 2009. He grew up in Colombo, then spent a considerable amount of his life in Delhi to do college and finally worked for several years during which he finally formed some political opinions and started to gain consciousness of his previous biases about the place he grew up in. In those formative years, he felt the distance between the comfort of living in India with the devastation that happened in the northern part of Sri Lanka where the ongoing conflict between the Sri Lankan army and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) took place. At the same time, he also started to form an intimacy with Anjum, a woman he encountered by chance during one of his mutual friend’s meetups. Anjum was his obsession for quite a while, leaving a deep influence on how he finally saw his life and formed his sense of purpose. He was infatuated by Anjum’s political activism and other notable qualities that impressed him, while also cherishing moments of intimacy that they had spent together, having sex, tossing and turning in between the night and day, sharing thoughts and ideas, before finally realising the distance between them. Distance is a really striking feature that this story is built upon. Through the meditation offered by Anuk Arudpragasam, I came to recognise there are several ways to interpret distance. First of all, there is the spatial distance that strikes us as a real distance, and we can leave further discussion on this. There is also the temporal distance, in which we recognise something has happened in a place some time ago, but for some reason, we could not participate due to our absence at the designated place at the given moment. But the distance that is being discussed in length in this story is the psychological distance, which happens to various factors. Each person consists of different history, was raised in a unique environment, with some qualities that sometimes belong only to that person alone. Flashbacks, as I have said earlier in this review, are used frequently to explain this psychological distance. The title–A Passage North–is a direct reference to the journey that Krishan made from Colombo to areas formerly controlled by the Tigers in the northern part of Sri Lanka. He was on his way to attend the funeral of Rani, his grandmother's former caretaker who just died the day before. Taking the seven-hour train journey, he reminisced over the time he had spent in India as a student and later academic researcher, which at that time seemed remotely out of place from the reality he faced in Sri Lanka. It was at that time, he only finally considered the direct consequences of the Civil War, which manifested itself through Rani’s bizarre death. Even though he’s spent some time working for an NGO in Jaffna, there is still some sensibilities lost to him about the events around him that seemed to happen far away. Krishan is, in all fairness, someone who exhibits characteristics of a person that is out of place, untouched by the events around him, unaffected by the time that passed in the place where he stands. It was at the funeral, triggered by the scene of a lake on the way to Rani’s cremation place, that he was reminded of a documentary that he once saw during his study in India. Another interesting fact about this book is that it relies on intertextual information that does not limit itself to other books. There was a fair share of account about the life of Buddha taken from a translation from the Sanskrit by Patrick Olivelle. In some part of the story, Anuk also recounts the life of Kuttimani who was one of the leaders of the Tamil militant organisation—TELO. But what is striking here is the use of a documentary as a way to expand the author’s vision of the northeastern landscape, by providing context on the resemblance between what drove many people into Buddhism teaching in the past and what drove some Tamil women into participating in Tamil guerilla organisation during the Civil War. The documentary in question is My Daughter the Terrorist which was released in 2007 and directed by Beate Arnestad. It highlights the story of two twenty-four years old women, Dharsika and Puhalchudar, who fought side by side as part of the Black Tigers—the suicide squad of the LTTE. War itself is a traumatic experience for many, leaving scars that might exist for generations, as was the case of Dharsika who lost his postman father in one of the bombings carried out by the Sri Lankan army. ‘Krishan had been struck by that scene the first time he saw it, by the way it so vividly captured Dharsika and Puhal’s relationship and situation, something simultaneously so moving, challenging, and disconcerting about how these two women had abandoned everything to join the Tigers, their homes and villages, families and friends, about how they’d formed, in exile from their previous lives, such an intimate bond, and how, despite waking together almost every day for seven years, they were ready to give each other up for the cause they’d joined, even to kill each other if the need arose.’ In some ways, the documentary provides a desired parable between the rise of Buddhism and the guerilla movement in northeastern Sri Lanka. The vivid account of Dharsika and Puhalchudar in the author’s paraphrasing compensates for those who lack knowledge about the historical background of the Civil War which is the most important backdrop of the story. It is also a creative way to combine the cinematic reference with beautiful prose as demonstrated here. ‘… Krishan no longer felt any particular sadness at the thought of Rani’s body being reduced, perhaps because he could no longer hear the actual sound of the burning, perhaps because he understood now that Rani had already left the world. He watched as the scarlet glow of the fire grew brighter in the darkening evening, as the air around it warped with strange clarity in the intensity of the heat, watched as the substantiality of a human life was transmuted, like a mirage or hallucination or vision, into thick clouds of smoke billowing up into the sky, thinning as they rose and then disappearing into the evening, a message from this world to another that would never be received.’

Beautiful book, a new favourite for me. I hope it wins the Booker Prize. Could be a case of right book right time, maybe I wouldn’t be so taken with this if I’d read it at a different time but I read most of it on a long train journey which was the perfect setting. Gentle prose, poignant observations. Arudpragasam writes really well about trauma and the inheritance of this, but also about relationships. I especially loved all the parts about Anjum. The several pages devoted to the looks and glances between her and Krishan on the first night they met I found very moving. So many layers to this book.

I enjoyed this one a lot! The prose, the language, the philosophical aspect of it all—it was great to read.

4.5 stars rounded up. Three generations divided by the trauma of being abandoned, travel together to the gulag of the elder one’s past. A gut wrenching journey, reliving the past, facing the truth , that may take them to a place in their hearts where forgiveness and redemption can be found . That it is based on the life of a friend of David Grossman makes it all the more meaningful. Half a star off for being a little slow at first , but worth the pace . I received a copy of this book from Knopf/Random House through Edelweiss.

It is clear to see that Grossman is a keen observer of people, of family dynamics. He captures, with infinite care, the micro expressions that give us away. The conversations that occur between people, without a word being said. The way additions and subtractions to the family system alter the entire relational ecosystem, sometimes beyond repair. The flow of stories through this system, and the gentle mutations that happen along the way. The way childhood trauma solidifies us to a specific age, freezing us in time — sometimes poisoning the well for those that follow. And above all: our stripped need, our howl for love. The plot and characters of this novel are too complex to do justice in a review, but let me briefly introduce you to one of its main characters — Vera Novak. Vera (inspired by the historical figure Eva Panic Nahir, who was a longtime friend and confidante of the author) is a 90-year-old matriarch when the story opens, adored by generations of devoted family members. It is not hard to fall in love with Vera — she is unfiltered, animated, full of enigmatic sayings and peevish optimism, slavish in her care of loved ones, possessing of a devilish sense of humour, and famed for her superhuman determination and resolve. And all this despite having spent years in torture at a Yugoslavian hard labour camp for political prisoners. Vera’s personality is perhaps best illustrated by an anecdote that occurs early on in the book. In 1963, the widower and esteemed agronomist Tuvia is looking for a new wife. Vera, also widowed, is suggested as a potential mate. A meeting is arranged. During their meeting, Tuvia’s teenage son Rafael bursts into the house, bloodied and bruised from a recent fight. Vera, trying to tend to his wounds, is surprised when he bites her. You wouldn’t blame a prospective bride for running the other direction. But for Vera the encounter has the opposite effect. She feels an uncanny pull towards this damaged boy. What use is your idealism, your activism, she decides, if you abandon this child now. This is the moment she decides to join Tuvia’s family and work to win over Rafael’s trust. In this and other ways, the novel examines our capacity for kindness in unusual circumstances – and our ability to love people who are not always easy to love. But there is also a dark secret at the heart of the novel and it is the reveal of this secret that the novel hurtles towards when Vera – together with Nina (her daughter), Rafael (her adopted son) and Gili (her granddaughter) – decide to undertake a road trip to visit historical landmarks related to her past. Though there were parts in the middle of the novel that felt slightly laboured (perhaps weighed down by the responsibility of relaying Vera / Eva’s full tale), there were an equal number of scenes and lines that sliced through me. It has been a while since I have been this engrossed in a story, this invested in a set of characters. I ask myself – why did I love this book so much, when it has received universally mixed reviews? Perhaps because I resonate with Grossman’s unique blend of psychology and historical biography. Perhaps because, in the sea of despair and anguish and (intentional) “unlikability” that makes up so much of contemporary literary fiction, this is like a lighthouse emitting hope and clarity and a sense of security. Perhaps because I appreciate the questions Grossman asks about love as homeland, about family as mythology. Perhaps, because, I too would like to believe that we have the capacity to heal from deep wounds – to “repair backwards a little”, as Vera so eloquently puts it. Pairs well with: A Constellation of Vital Phenomena Mood: Devastating and hopeful Rating: 9/10 Also on Instagram.

A profound and gripping read. Unlike anything I've read before. 5+

All the starts plus many more !!! What an incredible story ! Wow

First new 5* read since Feb 2021. This was unbelievably moving and incredibly written.. A deeply rich novel about the selfishness of grief, and what people are willing to do to keep the memory of someone alive, often at the cost of others.. I cannot believe this didn’t make the shortlist of the booker international…

