Amos Decker is one of my favourite fictional detectives. Injured whilst playing football, Amos is known as the Memory Man, he remembers everything he sees. This is book 7 in the series and I have loved every single one of them. I highly recommend starting at the beginning, with Memory Man, as this will give you background into who Amos is who he is and why. In Long Shadows, Amos has a lot to deal with. He is mourning the loss of a friend, battling health issues and wondering where he fits into the world now that his partner Alex Jamison has moved on. Then he gets a call and is sent to South Florida with his new partner, Freddie White. A federal judge and her bodyguard have been murdered in the judge's home. The local authorities are not happy that the FBI have been called in, but Decker and White just want to solve this case. As always, there are a multitude of possible suspects. Freddie and Amos pull out all the tricks they know to get to the bottom of this one. It certainly kept me guessing and turning those pages, I had no idea how it was going to conclude. Baldacci is an auto read author for me, and this book just shows you why. His plots are complicated but never confusing. His characters are realistic and get into your heart. Thanks to Macmillian Australia for my advanced copy of this book to read. Publishes in Australia, October 11th.

Great addition to this series AND can be read as a standalone — so jump on in! Th series is a favorite of mine. I recommended to several friends all continue reading it. (also me, at 6'6" has a soft spot for big athletic or tall characters that don’t fit easily or standout in situations!) .

Another really good book by one of my favorite authors. this one is in the Memory Man series which is Amos Decker who has a brain disorder due to a football injury. He is a consultant for the FBI because he has special skills because of the brain disorder. He is sent to Florida with a colleague to investigate two murders which seem connected. Amos is a very likeable character and he loves to solve crimes. Definitely recommend.

I’ve read all of the Memory Man books, loving each one. This is by far my favorite. The book starts out with some reflection of people who have been in Deckers life along with a little drama. Then he is sent to Florida with a new partner. She’s very likable with quick wit that actually makes Decker smile occasionally. Every chapter is filled with drama, excitement and another piece of the puzzle to help Decker and ‘Freddie’ solve their case. I read this book in 2 days, just couldn’t put it down.

This one, Long Shadows by David Baldacci is in my opinon one of the best books in the series about Amos Decker, with the exception of the first two. In this book we get to know a lot of the characters and at the same time they solve a couple of murders. I was almost on the verge of not reading anymore in this series but thought that I would give this one a chance and I am really glad that I did. I find that shaking Decker around a little helped keeping the series going. Highly recommended.

David Baldacci returns following The 6:20 Man (5✨Stars) with the latest edition of Amos Decker #7 (The Memory Man) —LONG SHADOWS. A lot is going on, and you do not want to miss a thing in this electrifying, complex, multi-layered investigation and so much more! A sinister double murder and a new partner. A huge Baldacci fan and of his leading men, I always pre-order the audiobook and am equally a fan of the dynamic duo narrators— Kyf Brewer and Olagh Cassidy (two of 🧡my favorites)- please never change. The performance was outstanding, as always—highly recommend the audiobook. Now, let's dive into this book! We all know and love Amos Decker (a huge fan and read all the books) has many skills that make for a great investigator. In LONG SHADOWS, FBI consultant Amos Decker has a lot on his mind. Decker gets hit pretty early with bad news. His ex-partner, Mary Lancaster, calls him for comfort (she has dementia), and she does not know her daughter. Before he can do anything, she kills herself. He is bummed and receives a text from the Washington Field Office instructing him to come to Washington at once. Here he is introduced to his new partner, an African American woman, Special Agent Frederica White. Decker is not happy, because he does not want a new partner but has little choice. Decker and White are then sent to South Florida, where they are assigned to investigate the murders of a Federal judge, Julia Cummins (wealthy), and her private bodyguard, Alan Draymont, employed by Gamma Protection Services. Decker's first thought was, why a private bodyguard and not one assigned by the Fed? Draymont, the bodyguard was shot, and the judge was butchered with a knife multiple times and both in separate rooms. Two different means of attack which leads Decker to think— a double homicide and possibly two different murderers? When they arrive in Ft. Myers, they have to deal with the locals, which is never good and Decker is about to lose his patience, trying to get answers. In a small gated community, the neighbors and friends are not a lot of help. Also, White and Decker have tension amongst themselves as new partners, but before the end of the book, they are getting along and respect one another. White is a single mother from Maryland (love her) and her mom keeps the boys. She feels guilty about leaving them so much so every chance she gets, she flies back home to see them. She wants to move up with the bureau, but rumors have it she and Decker were sent on this investigation to fail so they could be terminated. But evidently, the bureau does not know Decker's flawless record, and White's tenacity. Do you think they might go out on their own? We shall see. The investigation also sends them to Key Largo, FL as well. To complicate matters, they have many suspects, including the judge's ex-husband, Barry Davidson (a drunk who stands to gain millions from the will since it was not changed), and the judge's son, Tyler. They are each other's alibi. He is a high school student and athlete, and he and Decker bond over football since Decker was a pro football player, which caused his traumatic brain injury. Next, they look at possible motives for the murder of the bodyguard. (who seems to have been having an affair with the judge). They look into the company (bodyguard) employed by Gamma Protection Services. When Decker/White visits the company, they meet Kasimira Roe, the CEO of Gamma. She inherited the million-dollar company from her father, Kanak, when he mysteriously disappeared in a boating incident three years earlier. Then they question one of the employees who was taken to hospital and disappears. Lots of action follows. Roe wants to hire Decker to discover what happened to her father. His boat and his body were never found—not a trace. Decker agrees only if this situation is linked to the crime, they are working on. The plot thickens when Decker discovers when Draymont was murdered, a wad of foreign currency was stuffed in his throat—old Slovakian currency. Kasimiri Roe's father, was from Slovakia. The foreign currency in Draymont's mouth seemed to connect with Kanak Roe, or at least the Roe family. More people go missing, and more deaths, and they get closer to finding the murders of both the judge and the bodyguard and solving the case. In the conclusion, Decker and White both have to deal with employment bureaucracy issues leading us to hope for another book in the series! Your fans will be anxiously awaiting. I love Decker and the White together. I think they are good for one another and have a lot in common. It sounds like she has invited him up to meet her family! Baldacci is a master storyteller, and this brilliantly crafted, twisty/clever plot, the riveting suspense, and the fascinating, well-developed characters are all awe-inspiring! All the non-stop action and the relationship between the two new partners add balance from professional to personal, making for a highly satisfying installment. Memory Man and Baldacci fans alike will be anxiously awaiting the next Decker/White installment. Cannot wait to see what comes next in this chapter of their lives. On a side note, of course, I loved the South Florida setting. Been a resident for over 22 years and loved the mentions of Palm Beach, Key Largo, Naples, Ft. Myers, and Tampa, where I have lived and worked. I enjoyed revisiting these settings in the book. Do not miss this one—a gem! Blog Review Posted @ www.JudithDCollins.com @JudithDCollins | #JDCMustReadBooks My Rating: 5 🌟 Stars Pub Date: Oct 11, 2022 Oct 2022 Must-Read Books

Another wonderful David Baldacci book featuring Amos Decker. Amos Decker seems more human, emotionally, in this story. I thoroughly enjoyed trying to figure out who did it. I look forward to the next book in the Memory Man series.

When I read a novel about the Memory Man it is like sitting down with an old friend for a comfortable conversation. Baldacci does a great job of conveying the conflicting feelings of Amos. I am enjoying seeing the progression of his character.

Excellent read. This is an involved and complicated tale of murder. The seeds seem to have been sown before some of the investigators were born. The story is well told and moves along quickly. I thought the suspense was well maintained and the ending wrapped things up nicely.

Another successful book in the series. Like the main character and supporting characters. Unpredictable and interesting storylinel.

David Baldacci is the master of the thriller novel and Amos Decker is very likely his greatest character. This book was brilliant. As always. In my humble opinion, of course 💙

Amos Decker’s FBI boss sent him to southern Florida from DC to investigate a double homicide. One of the victims was a federal judge. The second was her bodyguard. He is assigned a new partner, Special Agent Frederica White, who knew about his reputation but didn’t know why she was being assigned to accompany him on this case. The head of FBI in Florida had no warning that they were coming and deeply resented their intrusion into his territory, assuming it showed a lack of confidence in him and his department. Meanwhile, Amos received a letter from his doctor about possible changes in his medical condition and didn’t know what was happening. (Amos had total memory recall following damage to his brain several years previously.) The bodies were discovered in the judge’s home. The bodyguard was shot (with something planted in his mouth) and the judge had multiple stab wounds in her body. At one point, someone tells of wanting to commit suicide following the murder of someone very close. Amos can understand the feeling, having experienced following the murders of his daughter and wife and recent suicide of a close friend.. He advises, “...If you really want to feel guilty, try taking your own life. It’s like you’re spitting all over their graves.... “Because you’re trying to take something away from yourself that was taken away from them without their consent.” The plot has its expected twists and turns in the investigations and the characters. The team discovers lies and omissions as well as multiple possibilities for the killer or killers. Mental illness and bias play large roles. LONG SHADOWS refers to both the news of the condition of his brain and the motive(s) behind the murders. Except for almost all the women wearing white blouses, LONG SHADOWS is well-written and hooks the reader very quickly. The end is quite unexpected.

I love this series and this book was amazing, as always.

I love this book! Being introduced to this author has been a blessing. I love smart dialogue.

A complex story with a lot of characters (and I mean a lot) but, still, an excellent whodunnit. Good character development and well written as usual.

Another great read in this series. Plenty to read with plenty of action and a few surprises on the way - what more can you want?

Favorite yet in the series. Interesting storyline. More believable than some of the previous books in series. Now I’m sad I’m caught up and don’t have any more to read.

"Wilde had never met his father. Or his mother. Or any family member. He didn't know their names or where he was born or when or how he, as a very young child, ended up living alone in the woods of the Ramapo Mountains, fending for himself. Now, more than three decades after being "rescued" as a little boy-"ABANDONED AND FERAL!" one headline had put it; "A MODERN-DAY MOWGLI!" shouted another-Wilde sat no more than twenty yards from a blood relative and the elusive answers to his mysterious origin." Friends, after a long anticipated wait, we finally receive answers to all the questions surrounding Wilde and his mysterious past. If you have no idea what I'm talking about, you probably haven't yet read The Boy from the Woods and should rectify that immediately. While this book could "technically" be read as a standalone, I can't say I'd recommend it as such, because there is so much character backstory you'll be missing that does play into a large portion of the plot, and the story will be much more meaningful once you have those deep ties to the familiar friends we've met before. Plus, it's not a long running series that will take you ages to catch up on! That said, if you're worried you may have forgotten what happened in the previous book, not to worry; Coben does a fantastic job of jogging your memory without giving a dreadful info dump that takes up a huge chunk of the beginning of this book. Welcome back to a world with Wilde, Hester, Laila, Matthew, and Rola! It felt so good to revisit this timeline, and we're dropped back into the story about a year after the previous book ends. Wilde is back in the US and has found a lead on a biological family member. As this meeting happens, things are set into motion that cannot be done, but as per the author's usual M.O., we don't get to see how it all ties together and subsequently unfolds until the very end of the book. This isn't the first book that Harlan Coben has written that involves a plot featuring ancestry accounts online, but I can say it's used in a different way here than it was previously. There's laughter, plenty of suspense and action, and even a bit of a heartwarming love story here, folks. I don't want to give anything away, but I truly had no idea where this novel was going until the multiple big reveals at the end. Do yourself a favor and go ahead and pre-order The Match. *Many thanks to the author for providing my review copy.

The Match - Harlan Coban Wilde#2 4.5 rounded up. There's a very good reason why I've read a lot of Harlan Coban's books - he writes darned good thrillers! I stayed up very late with this one because its so engrossing and I'd suggest up there with some of his best. Wilde is the modern day Mowgli, "Little Tarzan", abandoned as a small child and fending for himself in the Ramapo Mountains. He's the "Boy From The Woods". Now, in his early forties he wants to find his family and via a DNA website and with the help of his much loved foster sister he traces his father. This is the start of a very exciting thriller with cleverly woven plot strands featuring DNA, a vigilante group, murder and mayhem (obviously, this is Coban!) with a 'Reality TV' scandal thrown into the mix. It's told from several perspectives which I can tell you keeps you on the edge of your seat trying to figure out the plot permutations. It's very well written, it's slick, the pace is spot on and there isn't one moment when your attention wanders. The characterisation is excellent, with a few deft strokes the author seems to be able to paint a personality picture. Wilde is fascinatingly complex and very likeable and its great to see Hester Crimstein cropping up again too. The author shines a light on several things to ponder over, such as Justice which lies at the heart of this, for instance, if the law isn't able to mete it out, is it right for others to take up the mantle? The DNA angle is clever too and keeps you on your toes trying to figure out what it all means and how it aligns. Another integral element is the fakery of so-called Reality TV which is about as real as ...(substitute any famous 60+ with a 30 year old face!). Chuck in some vile trolling and you'd think these plot strands would be a mess - absolutely not in these skilled, experienced writing hands. It all connects cleverly, with tension, twists and turns aplenty, it's a rollercoaster suspense read with multiple secrets and lies. The ending is a surprise (well played sir) and a really good final moral conundrum. Yes, its a very compelling read and one I'd highly recommend to those who like an intelligent plot. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Random House UK, Cornerstone, Century for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.

The story resumes following Wilde’s return to the New Jersey Ramapo Mountains after months in Costa Rica, his attempt at domesticity having failed. Before he left, he’d submitted his DNA to a genealogy site and now there’s been another match. The first had been to someone using the initials PB and listed as a second cousin. But this new one is different: the match is to his biological father. And, before he can reach out, the profile to DC disappears. With the help of noted NY defense attorney Hester Crimstein who is also his surrogate mother, he locates the man and Wilde proceeds on a journey that embroils him in the crazy world of reality TV, social media influencers and a strange vigilante group. I continue to be intrigued by Wilde, the infamous “boy in the woods” who at almost forty is still trying to find his way. As he gets closer to discovering his identity, he has more questions than resolution. Meanwhile, his relationship with his godson Matthew and Laila, the teen’s mother and former wife of his deceased best friend, continues to evolve as he explores his origins. It was all fascinating if not a tangled mess that was a challenge to unravel. It all made for an exciting listening experience that gripped me from the first page. While you don’t have to have read the first book to appreciate the mystery of this one, I’d encourage you to do so to better understand Wilde and get the weight of his transformation in this one. I love the narrator as he manages to capture his personality perfectly along with so many others, including Hester, my favorite. This story has so many dimensions and the vigilante group called Boomerang was a chilling factor. As with any of the author’s stories, there are a host of red herrings and delicious twists, all providing a reason for me not being able to put this one down until I got my answers. However, there’s still more to Wilde’s story, right Mr. Coben? Please say yes. 4.5 stars Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to Brilliance Audio for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

Harlan Coben is one of my all time favourite authors. I was thrilled to get this arc. This is a follow up book to the The Boy From the Woods which I appear to have completely missed although the Hester Crimstein character rings a huge bell, she must have appeared in other Coben books. It’s not a name you forget easily. Not to worry, it reads fine as a stand alone. Wilde (the boy from the woods) is now 40-42 years old and is very keen to find any family he may have. He has sent his DNA to a genealogy site and there appears to be a match to his father. Wilde meets with him but the man, Daniel Carter, is very cagey and immediately deletes his accounts. There is also a weaker link to what is probably a cousin or half brother, PB. As Wilde looks into PB he opens a can of worms. PB seems to be a man called Peter Bennett who rose to fame in a reality TV dating show where he married a woman called Jenn. After a couple of years, and with no child in sight, the couple sank into obscurity and suddenly a scandal was revealed about Peter and he was trolled mercilessly on social media. Meanwhile, and unrelated to Wilde, an online vigilante group calling themselves “boomerang” which exists to “punish” internet trolls has been asked to look into the trolling of Peter Bennet. It decides to take no action but one of its members provides information to a external party who goes on a killing spree. How do all these threads fit together and does Wilde end up finding his parents and learning why he was abandoned in the boys as a young boy? You’ll have to read the book to find out! I loved it. It was very entertaining. Harlan Coben has a talent for taking ordinary people and putting them in extraordinary circumstances where their mettle is tested in the extreme. Many thanks to Netgalley and Random House UK, Cornerstone for the much appreciated arc which I reviewed voluntarily and honestly.

Absolutely brilliant! There is a reason why Harlan Coben is one of my most trusted and favourite authors. His books are always clever and full of twists that keep you guessing right until the very end. A rainy day in Sydney saw me curl up and get lost in Wilde's world and I loved every minute of it. The Boy From The Woods - Wilde, is back in The Match. He has finally taken the plunge and submitted his DNA to a genealogy website in an attempt to find out who he is and where he came from. When he gets a match to a possible relative, it is the start of very dark and dangerous journey. He will become involved with online trolls, a possible serial killer, a group of vigilantes and a missing reality TV star. What is not to love about that. This book also features some characters from some previous Coben books, which was a lovely surprise. We learn so much more about Wilde and watch him change his thought and habits. He is a great character, so many layers. If you haven't read a book by Harlan Coben, why not? You are seriously missing out on some amazing characters and stories. The Match is published March 16th. Thank you so much to Penguin Australia for sending me one of my most anticipated books for 2021. Easily all the stars.

Wilde is back and dare I say, this is Coben’s best book yet. With some old favorites (hello, Hester Crimstein) reappearing and some newer darlings from Wilde’s last book, we are drawn deeper into the life of the boy from the woods. Mixing elements of DNA tracking sites (a la 23andme), reality TV and vigilante justice, the characters feel like friends and as always, I regret finishing too quickly, knowing that I will need to wait a year for the next book. This is a follow up to The Boy From the Woods but can definitely be read stand alone as well (you should definitely read both, because they are great, but you don’t HAAAAVE to read TBFTW to read The Match) Look for this one in March 2022! Thank you to the author and Grand Central Pub for a review copy. All opinions are my own.

Well I`m late to the party here as this was my first Harlan Coben read and it certainly didnt disappoint. The second in the series based on a man called Wilde who, as a child was abandoned and left in a forest to fend for himself, eventually being found after a few years amazingly surviving on his own. Here we have Wilde seeking out his real family as he gets a match on a DNA website to a possible relative. This leads him into a world of intrigue, secrets, the power of social media, the hunger for fame and the ease with which it can be taken away and someone "cancelled" and ultimately murder. I loved loved loved this one. The characters here are fantastically written. Wilde is a fascinating character and I cant think of one character in the book that wasnt very well written. The story also is beautifully paced with plenty of twist and turns along the way. This book never get boring. This can definitely be read as a stand alone as I did. So impressed with it as I was, I immediately looked for the first in the series only for my wife to tell me she had a copy of the paperback. Result! As I said Im late to the party with Coben but if this is the standard of his writing and storytelling then I will certainly be seeking out his back catalogue. An easy 5 star review for me. Get a copy of this, strap yourself in and enjoy the ride. Thanks to the publisher for the ARC through Netgalley.

From the creator of Netflix's Stay Close and The Stranger, the brilliant master of suspense, Harlan Coben makes many readers very happy (myself included) with his latest knock-out psychological suspense thriller, THE MATCH. RIVETING. ENGROSSING. SATISFYING. Will Wilde finally attain the pieces of the puzzle of his past? A follow-up from The Boy from the Woods, Wilde was called "Little Tarzan" and no one ever came forward to claim the abandoned little boy in the woods. He was around 6-8 yrs old when he was found. Wilde is now 40-42 years of age, and as a boy, he lived alone in the woods. Something horrible happened to him, a dark past, but his memory was blocked out, and he only remembered pieces. He had a foster father, and now, three decades later, Wilde did not have a clue about his origin until now. But the initial meeting did not go as expected from a DNA online site match. Of course, if you know Coben, you know it is not simply getting from point A to B. There is so much in between. We get to catch up with Hester Crimstein, an attorney from previous books (love), and other characters from previous books. Wilde had spent the last few months in Costa Rica, and it was time to return to his remote Ecocapsule deep in the heart of the Ramapo Mountains, in New Jersey, where he belonged in the woods alone. Wilde is intelligent. He had a successful military career, years as a security expert, and excellent detective skills. However, now he is about to meet his father, Daniel Carter, from a DNA ancestry website. The man was around 61 and married a woman named Sofia with three grown daughters, who are now his half-sisters and live in Nevada. The guy had a past with other women but does not want to screw up his current marriage and family. But little does he know? Can Wilde move on with his future until he finds out his past? Wilde receives an email from PB (Peter Bennett) who claims to be a distant cousin. He reached out to Wilde, who became famous as a popular contestant on a dating reality show until the public turned against him. He was humiliated, his career ruined, and his marriage in tatters. Now Peter has disappeared and may have committed suicide. Wilde had not answered the email when it came in and now he appears to be missing. Wilde then gets caught up in the middle of a crazy vigilante group specializing in destroying the lives of bullies. All this turns into madness and soon Wilde wishes he were back living in the woods alone where life is simpler. From mysterious DNA searches, cyberbullying, reality TV stars, and social media influencers, an action-packed suspense thriller with excellent character development. Coben keeps you on edge, waiting to see if Wilde will learn about his past and connect with his mother and father. I really enjoyed the mother's past and how it all began. Fans will be delighted with the ending and excited to have all the answers from the previous book. Coben does a great job with background, and THE MATCH can be read as a standalone; however, I am glad I read the first book. Coben Fans will devour this one! Loved it. Hopefully, we will hear more from these characters in future books. Highly recommend. A special thank you to #NetGalley and #GrandCentral for an ARC. Blog Review Posted @ www.JudithDCollins.com @JudithDCollins | #JDCMustReadBooks My Rating: 5 Stars 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 Pub Date: March 15, 2022

I loved the first book in this series, The Boy from the Woods, so I was super excited to get my hands on a pre-release copy of this, the second (many thanks to the publisher via NetGalley). I certainly wasn't disappointed, although I must say I was never worried in the slightest - I've loved every single book I've read by this talented and prolific author. The central character, known as Wilde, is a grown man who, as a young boy, was found living in the Ramapo mountains of New Jersey. He has no memory of a family, or how he got to the woods - but he's managed to carve out a successful life that includes graduation from West Point. Still, he remains for the most part reclusive; and his closest friend, the son of feisty attorney Hester Crimstein, has died. His love interest is David's widow, Laila, but even to her, he's unable to make a serious commitment. As this one begins, Wilde apparently has found his father through a DNA website. They meet, but the man - who has a wife and family and lives in Nevada - has no knowledge of fathering another child since, he says, he's always been faithful to his wife. Well, almost; it seems he sowed some wild oats while in the military stationed in Europe - basically one-night-stands with eight women whose names he doesn't remember. As all this transpires and Wilde tries to decide where to go next, readers get a glimpse of an uber-clandestine group called Boomerang. The group keeps their identities top secret, even from each other; their mission is to exact vigilante-style payback on folks who have done nasty things to other folks. After careful consideration of proposals submitted online, they pick and choose which cases to follow up. Hester comes into play after her grandson, Matthew (David's son) tells her he's worried about not hearing from Wilde from far too long. Wilde, who's been laying low and focusing on finding out who he really is and why he was left in the woods, gets a text from a man who claims to be his cousin. That guy, as it happens, has made quite name for himself in the reality show business - and not necessarily a good one. The rest of the book follows Wilde's attempt to locate his real relatives and work on relationships with the people he loves as much as he's capable of (yes, he does reconnect with Matthew, Hester and Laila, but you'll just have to read it to get the details). Trust me, it's quite a ride that leads up to a bit of a surprise ending (nope, not gonna spill the beans on that, either). As for me, I just have to dial down my impatience level while I wait to get my hands on the next installment!

This was my first Harlan Coben book, after I realized that I'd watched quite a few mystery/thriller limited series based on his books on Netflix (mostly from other countries, some in other languages). I really enjoyed it and I can see why he's an international bestselling author. This worked fine as a stand-alone, even though characters in it were from multiple books and it was obvious that there was a lot of back story. Just enough of that was given that I didn't feel lost but also didn't feel that other books were ruined for me. I can tell that Netflix completely revamps his books when they turn them into series, as one of the characters in this one is from The Stranger and that character is nothing like the one in that. The Match is told from multiple POVs, with the biggest one being Wylde, a man who was found in the woods as a child who doesn't know his own personal history. He's put his DNA in one of those heritage databases and when two hits come up, it leads him on a journey through interwoven lives of internet trolls, reality dating star celebs, law enforcement, a serial killer and more. Wylde and many of the characters in his life are likeable, and the story was compelling. I'll definitely look for more Coben books from now on. I read a digital ARC of this book via Net Galley.

I. Loved. This. Book. and found it to be totally unputdownable!! I haven't read The Boy From the Woods but I found the storyline in The Match easy to follow. (Well. Other than some of the DNA science.) Fortunately, the beginning of the book filled in some of the backgrounds of Wilde's early life nicely. I found Wilde to be such a fascinating and unique character, and I absolutely loved him. (With Hester, Rola, and Matthew coming in a close second place.) There was quite a bit going on, plus a little romance. Both of those things are usually the kiss of death for me but not in this book. I found the pace to be quick and the storylines to be so well-written! I can't wait to read it again. There is a lot of heart in The Match and I highly recommend it!!

Harlan Coben never disappoints !! I wasn’t so sure about this story. I’m adopted. There’s a new author trope that uses adoptees finding family through DNA sites in their thrillers. More often than not this trope becomes a joke. So I was worried half way through. I also thought I figured out the killer. I was close but totally wrong! Again! The ending was fast paced and my head is spinning with all the details!! He’s a master storyteller.

This review can also be found at https://carolesrandomlife.com/ I enjoyed this book quite a bit. I would definitely recommend reading The Boy from the Woods before reading this one if at all possible. You could probably get by with reading this book as a stand-alone but Wilde has such an interesting and unique history that is dealt with in the first book. Of course, Coben does a good job of catching the reader up in this book. I liked this book even more than the first book. I thought that it was exciting with a lot of twists and turns and I love the way it kept me guessing until the very end. I can always count on Coben to keep me entertained. Wilde puts his DNA into one of those heredity websites and ends up with a couple of matches. His past is a complete mystery so it is a big deal when he is connected with his father and a cousin. Of course, things can never be easy and it turns out that his cousin is missing and Wilde soon finds himself knee-deep in an incredibly complex mystery. I really liked the way that Wilde approached this mystery. He seemed to be able to see the big picture from the start and was ready to deal with whatever outcome turned up. There were several different threads going at any one time during this novel and I was eager to see how things might be connected. Not only is Wilde dealing the trying to figure out what really happened to his cousin, but he is also trying to decide what the next steps in his life might be. I really enjoyed seeing Wilde work with Hester, Rola, Matthew, and Laila again and love how they all really care about each other. We even get some answers regarding Wilde’s past. I would highly recommend this book to others. I found this to be a very exciting fast-paced story that kept me turning pages just as quickly as possible. I love Harlan Coben’s style of writing and look forward to reading, and re-reading, more of his work in the future. I received a review copy of this book from Grand Central Publishing. Initial Thoughts I enjoyed this book quite a bit. I would definitely recommend reading The Boy from the Woods before reading this one if at all possible. Wilde puts his DNA into one of those heredity websites and ends up with a couple of matches. His past is a complete mystery so it is a big deal when he is connected with his father and a cousin. Of course, things can never be easy so his cousin is missing and Wilde soon finds himself knee-deep in an incredibly complex mystery. The story was exciting and kept me guessing until the very end. I found this one very hard to put down.

First things first, this is the second in a series and I don’t think it should be read on it’s own. If you haven’t read The Boy in the Woods yet do that first, it’s excellent. At the end of the first book I felt like most things were wrapped up but yet at the same time like there was so much more to learn about Wilde and his fascinating backstory. Hester is back as well and she’s every bit as sharp and witty as she always has been and once again it was awesome to see her playing more of a starring role in one of HC’s books. This felt like a signature book from the author, it was twisty and fast with well developed characters and a really solid mystery that delivered. I’m a huge fan and always will be, he can do no wrong for me but this one was SO good!

This book was recommended to me and I am so glad for that! Great read!

“The Match” is the sequel to “The Boy from the Woods” that follows Wilde, who as a feral boy was found living in the Ramapo Mountains in New Jersey. Wilde was taken into the foster care system fortunately under the care of Hester Crimstein a famous NYC attorney. Growing up, he kept some of his loner ways and as an adult by living a solitary life in an encapsule in the woods. Wilde is a man choosing to live life alone, with a limited ability to emotionally extend himself to others. Except for occasional flashbacks, Wilde has no memory of who his parents were or how he came to be abandoned in the woods. Now in his forties, Wilde decides it’s time to satisfy his curiosity about his true identity via a genealogy website. His decision and determination to delve into the past unearths unexpected dangers and shocking details about his life. He finds himself drawn into a twisted investigation which includes the amoral but lucrative world of reality television driven by ratings. His research also leads him to a secret vigilante group dedicated to delivering justice to the worst of online trolls. Once again, Harlan Coben is at the top of his game and everything missing in the previous book was included in this one. “The Match” is a well written story told in short chapters from several perspectives and a complex and intelligent plot with a clever DNA angle that keeps you guessing. I recommend this to readers who enjoy riveting thrillers packed with engrossing suspense and tension and plenty of twists, and a surprising ending.

Wilde has grown up not knowing anything about his biological family. This is because all he can remember is being found as a young boy living in the mountains alone. Now grown up, Wilde sets off on a hunt to find his family using the latest DNA technology. Wilde gets a 100% hit and finds his father! They meet up and quickly realize that Wilde’s father had no knowledge that he had a son. Wilde continues his family search which gets him involved in a secret group of doxxers. One-by-one the group of doxxers are being targeted and killed by someone. Will Wilde be next? THE MATCH is another top notch thriller from Harlan Coben! The DNA subject matter fascinated me and kept me fully engaged throughout the story. The DNA technology and the online trolling topics gave this story a very “current times” feel to it and I really enjoyed it. This is the second book in the Wilde series, I have not read the first one yet (THE BOY FROM THE WOODS) but THE MATCH can definitely be read as a stand alone. I loved it and highly recommend it for Coben fans and general thriller fans alike. Five big, gold, shiny stars! Many thanks to Grand Central Publishing for my ARC in exchange for my honest review. This review will be posted to my Instagram Blog (@coffee.break.book.reviews) in the near future.

This book is about Wilde's DNA match from an online database. We finally are going to get answers as to who left the boy in the woods all those years ago but what ensues is a maze of genealogy. All your favorite characters from the first book are back or at least mentioned as we try to put the pieces of Wilde's past together. This one had me entertained and engaged. I loved how what took place in between the first book and this one was scattered delicately throughout the story as opposed to a "previously on" format. I hope there are more books coming in this series. I think even if you haven't read the first book, "the boy from the woods", that you would like this one.

As someone who was underwhelmed by The Boy From the Woods, I was happy to see the vast improvements in Wilde’s second appearance! Even if some of the DNA details take time to track, The Match masterfully weaves them into the story. While I am partial towards Coben’s work (read: massive fan), I think he does everything right with this book. There’s strong character development, witty humor, and the expectedly unexpected twists and turns that keep you guessing until the end. Whenever it’s ready, I’ll be excited to read Wilde’s next adventure!

I will begin by saying that if the first book was good and I almost had a heart attack, this one killed me all the way. I enjoyed reading this book even more than I anticipated. Harlan Coben will never be overrated. This man delivers an amazing story with such ease and every chapter packs a punch in them that you never see coming. The only characters you can trust are the ones we already knew from the previous book and even then we get a surprise that I don’t think anyone was expecting. I did not see that coming. If you know… you know. The beginning of the story is exactly where we left off. It is so refreshing having a character like Hester Crimstein in the story. She makes everything better. She clearly sees Wilde as a son, but she is so direct and straightforward. I think she told him in the first book that it is not because she wants to compensate for not having her David anymore. I mean, talk about a slap in the face. This guy was abandoned in the woods when he was a toddler. The only family he truly knows is David’s and he is no longer with them, even though he is super present in the story. When Wilde matches with someone on a DNA website and he begins to look for his biological relatives, he was definitely not expecting to be sucked in the mother of all conspiracies. I’m 100% sure that there are some things we’re better off not knowing. Wilde is the type of person that has to see things through. If he starts something, he will finish it. Even when the only thing it brings is trouble, he keeps pushing forward. If it wasn’t for the support system he has, I don’t think he would’ve been able to pull it off. When I tell you that it is a mess that goes up and down, keeping you on your toes. Not letting you believe anything but at the same time not leaving you confused… that’s exactly what you’re getting out of this. I loved how the story ended and I’m happy with how much the experience changed him and enabled him to open up to Laila. That was my cherry on top. Thank you to Netgalley and Grand Central Publishing for the opportunity to read another masterpiece. I didn’t even wait to finish it when I was already at Barnes and Noble purchasing the physical book. It’s that good.

Quite frankly I was not expecting this book to be so exciting! I am extremely guilty of picking up books based solely off their cover art and recommendations on social media. This method usually fails me; however, I absolutely loved The Match by Harlan Coben. It is a thriller that kept me guessing until the end. I walked into this book blind, and have not read the first book in this series. You can definitely read this book independently of his prequel as I had no trouble at all figuring out the background of the characters. Wilde has not had a traditional life. He was found living in the woods around age 8, and has no recollection of anything prior. As an adult, Wilde still prefers the solitude of nature, and lives in the woods separate from society. He has made some close friends since he was found as a child, but he has always wondered about his biological family and why they left him by himself. After taking a DNA test, Wilde finds more than one close family member. However, when one of these family members goes missing, Wilde is led on a hunt to find out what happened and if they are still alive. There is great character development and acceptance in this book. Even though the characters and their lives are so different, they all accept each other for who they are and understand the boundaries and obstacles that each one faces. I loved how smart and resourceful Wilde is in the book. I highly recommend this non-traditional thriller! Thank you to Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley for granting me a free copy of this book in exchange for my honest review!

Another gem by Harlan Coben. Now it's time to wait for book 3. 👍

This book started out as a solid three stars and looked like it might even drop to two. Not good for one of my favorite go-to authors. Sanford took longer than normal to set up his conflict, (the 4 C’s of the story arc, conflict, complication, crisis conclusion). Part of the reason was the complexity of the plot. This is one of his most complex plot lines, the motivation for the, “Why,” which as it turns out was truly brilliant. The bad guy had a motivation (in his own deviant mind) for what he was about to do. The “why,” he came to it was a unique stroke of brilliance by Sanford. Part of it, I’m sure is my law enforcement background. I would have no idea how to go after this bad guy, how to ferret him out. What a wonderful premise. And since the book is in third person with multiple points of view, the reader can see all the wrong turns and how Davenport the main character, keeps going down the wrong rabbit hole trying to solve it. And then…and then (a little bit of a spoiler here), we find out the motivation for the whole story gets flipped on its head. This book had a slow start but then shifted into the standard Sanford fare with a great story concept thrown in. The book continued to get more and more intense as it went along just like it’s supposed to. This book ended with a solid five stars. I highly recommend this one. David Putnam author of the Bruno Johnson series.

This is a new author for me, and not my typical genre (I don’t usually read police drama), but once again, I picked this one up since the author will be giving a presentation through our local library. Honestly, I gave it five stars because it surprised me how much I liked it! The intrigue and action, with a real twist about half way through, and how the lead US Marshall on the case identified the criminal and their final confrontation kept me on the edge of my seat. It was a real page turner! The story focuses on a US senator’s daughter who discovers her own picture, along with pictures of other children of prominent political figures, and hateful, highly charged political propaganda on a dark website. Fearing for the lives of the children, and the FBI limited in how they can help, US Marshall Davenport is called in on the case. The story tracks the crimes of the man who takes the message in the website to heart, wanting to make a political statement and become a hero...at least to certain groups. Interspersed is the investigation, trying to identify and stop the madman before the children are targeted and murdered. Although this is one of about thirty books in the series, you don’t need to have read the prior books to appreciate this one. Fans of the entire series have commented on how Davenport’s character has changed over the course of the books, perhaps not in the best way. Not having that background, I found US Marshall Davenport’s character completely intriguing. Whether or not you enjoy police drama, I’d suggest giving this one a try. It just might draw you in!

If I've missed any of the books in this series, it was very early on; but once hooked at whatever the first one was years ago, I've tackled every single one since. Some have tickled my fancy a little more than others, but never once have I been disappointed. And this one's no exception. Lucas Davenport, now 52 and still recovering in his home state of Minneapolis from a serious gunshot wound from an earlier book, gets an unwanted call to come to Washington, D.C. The FBI discovered a website buried within a teenage girl's popular blogs called 1919, and it's plastered with photos of children of influential members of Congress. A couple of Senators want Lucas to investigate who prefer that the whole thing be kept under wraps. But the FBI gets wind of it and, thinking the site may be connected to mostly undercover Alt-right groups who don't play by established rules, the FBI is intent on protecting those kids, agree to work with Lucas, who's from the U.S. Marshall's Service. Lucas, in turn, calls in friends Bob Matees and Rae Givens, who tend to enjoy working a bit outside the lines if necessary. Early on, they hope to find out who's behind the website before word gets out and someone (or several someones) from those anti-government groups decides to do as the site seems to suggest - kidnap or murder one or more of the children just to make a political statement and get the parents' attention. But as luck (and the media) would have it, secrets like this die rather easily. Suddenly, it becomes even more urgent for Lucas, his buddies and all the FBI and local law enforcement teams to solve the case. The need to hustle increases even more with the assistant to the leader of one of the groups is murdered. Much of the investigation involves in-person discussions with members of the Alt-right groups scattered thither and yon; they are numerous, and most of the discussions lead to dead ends. That, and the sheer number of characters, makes this book a little more tedious to read, perhaps, but it's hard to complain because everything is interspersed with the humor is one of the reasons this series is so appealing to me, to-wit: As he's getting on an airplane, Lucas - who is terrified of flying - is forced to sit by a woman "...who'd already begun knitting something in a color of green so dreadful that Lucas didn't want to sit next to it..." Gotta love it. You need to read it. I need to thank the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to savor a pre-publication review copy.

I have been a long time fan of John Sandford and of his unpredictable character of Lucas Davenport from the time that he was a cop that wrote a computer program that made him a rich cop. Now he is a U.S. Federal Marshall still hunting down the bad guys. It was a very intricate plot-line that was...in some ways unfortunately...totally believable. It spoke volumes about the culture we live in today. Some have said it was political... and yes...it may or may not have been an expression of Mr. Sandford's political views...but it told the story exactly the way the world is today. I don't have to agree or disagree with John Sandford's opinions...if that is what they were...to have thoroughly enjoyed seeing Lucas Davenport stop another very bad man.

I have read every Lucas Davenport book. Every one is so strongly written and completely believable. Lucas is such a complex and yet, simple, man. Now I wait for the next one!

It has been a few months since U.S. Marshall Lucas Davenport was shot. September is half gone and he knows he still doesn’t look right no matter what the others say. Working out helps, but he isn’t back physically or emotionally, and he knows it. He also can’t spend much time worrying about where he is at as he has new case to work. He lives for the hunt. That freedom to hunt bad folks come with a cost when folks pull strings to get you a job. In this case, that cost is the occasional political task. The latest installment payment has come due and that means that Lucas Davenport has to go to Washington to quietly meet with Senators Elmer Henderson and Porter Smalls. In a surprise to Lucas and no one else, Jane Chase of the FBI is also present for the meeting. They come to Lucas for his ability to hunt as well as his discretion as the daughter of Senator Roberta Coil of Georgia has a problem. Audrey Coil found some of her pictures as well as pictures of other kids of elected officials on a hidden website billed as “1919.” The nineteen appears to be related to the nineteenth letter of the alphabet, the letter S. In other words, the site name is code for SS. Based on what is on the site, it appears to be a Neo-Nazi type group issuing a subtle call to action and using the pictures of kids as suggested targets. Nothing overt that clearly is a threat though one could look at the site and come to that conclusion. The FBI has been able to determine the site is hosted out of Sweden which has strict privacy laws making finding out anything about those involved impossible. Everything is well hidden, including the website address and the people behind it, which means they cannot be identified and questioned. Senator Smalls and Porter are acting on behalf of a number of the parents of the kids who have pictures on the site and want something done about it. The simple solution of removing the site from the internet would create a new problem as those behind it could put it up again and do a way better job of hiding it. They got lucky with finding it in the first place because Audrey Coil has an internet presence, and advertiser base, and her and her boyfriend stumbled across it. The parents want Lucas to dig and see if he can find a crime so that the FBI can do something more than what they have done so far. At this point, there is no real crime that could be prosecuted as taking pictures of others in public and posting them on the internet is not a crime. They want Lucas to dig quietly so that the media does not get wind of it and start broadcasting the investigation news day and night. Chase of the FBI gives Lucas everything they have so far and wants Lucas to keep her updated as she really wants his help. Lucas is also to keep Director Mallard advised of what he is doing and update Smalls and Porter as necessary as well as give them deniability should things go bad from a political perspective. Things start escalating very fast after Lucas does a few interviews, starting with Audrey Coil, and reads a lot of files. The situation is complicated and messy and keeping things quiet soon becomes impossible in Masked Prey: A Lucas Davenport Novel by John Sandford. Then the shooting and killing really starts. This latest in the series is a fast moving thriller style read with lots of moving parts. Some may object to the fact that politics from both sides of the aisle is sprinkled throughout the read with the author pointing out various issues from time to time regarding extremism on the right as well as the left. Considering the subject matter, it would be impossible to leave the politics out of it. Despite what you may read in some criticism, the author does a very good job of balancing both sides of various issues while not overriding the main story of the hunt. Mr. Sandford still has the touch thirty books later in this series and Masked Prey: A Lucas Davenport Novel is a mighty good read. While I have been on the hold at the library for months now, Scott put me on hold for the eBook format and made things work so that I could get it now when it came up through the Dallas Public Library System. Masked Prey: A Lucas Davenport Novel John Sandford http://www.johnsandford.org/prey30.html G. P. Putnam’s Sons (Penguin Books) https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/bo... April 2020 ISBN# B07WQPHD3M eBook (also available in hardback, large print, and audio formats) 416 Pages Kevin R. Tipple ©2020

A very active Lucas. An initial plot turned on its head. Bob and Rae. Political shitheels. A solid antagonist. Lots of kooky gun lovers. An angry FBI agent. An attention-loving teen. One of Sandford’s best.

** spoiler alert ** A website, 1919, seems to be targeting the children of Democratic lawmakers. Henderson and Smalls bring Lucas in to investigate the right wing groups suspected of being behind it. But Lucas soon discovers the website was set up by Audrey Coil (one of the children displayed on the site) to garner publicity for her blog Young'nHot'nDC. Unfortunately some of the lone wolfs in the right wing groups take the 1919 website seriously and actually target the children on the website. One gunman is caught in the parking garage across from one of the kids school, another is apprehended after he kills a researcher looking into his group, but the third lone wolf escapes detection and kills a random child in the school yard. In order to track him down Lucas will leak the identity of the person responsible for 1919 and use Audrey for bait. Also large hint at the end of the book that the next Prey novel will take place in Florida.

Ahh... a visit with a long time friend, Lucas Davenport who is currently in the US Marshal service. He is called in to investigate a troubling website found by a Senator’s teenage daughter, linked to her lifestyle blog in which there are pictures of many Senators children. He then travels to DC and becomes entangled in right wing White Supremacy groups. It becomes apparent that an unknown group/individual will be targeting these children to influence political decisions. Lucas calls on longtime associates Bob and Rae, from the US Marshals office in New Orleans who assist him in investigating the groups. This a well plotted, fast paced action story. TW for child endangerment, gun violence.

Lucas Davernport is called in to handle a sensitive situation after a Senator’s daughter discovered a fascist website. It is full of pictures of Senator’s kids. Nothing is posted, but it is inferred that these children are targets. As with most Sandford novels, there is lots of non stop action. I thought the plot was solid, and it was an interesting world that Lucas took on with the Fascists. As always since Lucas has become a Marshall, it is sad not to see him solving crime around Minnesota. Overall a solid five star that was fun to read and hard to put down.

As always, a great Prey book. My only complaint about this one - not enough gunfights and/or dead bodies. And no talk of any of Davenport’s old pals. Just a couple of Marshals that show up from time to time to keep Lucas company and help him get knee deep into trouble. Through all the years I’ve followed Davenport, he just keeps getting better and better instead of just aging. I’ll keep reading this series long into a time where he’s old, crippled and rolling in a wheelchair.

U.S. Marshal Lucas Davenport investigates a supposed plot by alt-right wingers who are threatening the children of politicians. Or, are they? This thriller is timely, exciting and leads to a fantastic plot twist.

OH SO MUCH FUN! Sandford really keeps it going. I read far into the night, until I realized I had actually dreamed the last few pages....then I picked it up first thing next morning. A snappy and well-plotted read with an almost surprising twist!

Jews control the banks and media Jews, Teachers, Hispanics, Arabs are America’s problem What better way to talk about what’s going on in current times then through fiction. Author Sandford must have put in hours of research to help develop the Mask Prey storyline. Those who are new to politics will be entertained while learning about how the world and politics work. Marshall Lucas Davenport, one of my favorite fictional law enforcement officers, has been brought to D.C. to find a group called 1999 who, on its Web site, has posted, pictures of children in their everyday setting and some with their parents. What they have in common is all their parents are democrat politicians. The site was accidentally discovered when a high school student wanted to trace the locations of her photos on the Web and found her picture on the 1999 site. She showed it to her mother who brought it to the attention of law enforcement. Now every crazy white supremacist is out to wipe out the children of those politicians. Richard Ferrone’s exemplary storytelling draws you in from the first sentence and don’t let you go until he says, The End. The Mask Prey was an exhilarating read.

Davenport getting shady. Sandford mixing fake news with crazy white supremacy insanity, brought along his Louisiana Marshal sidekicks. This isn't political, it's current

I love Stephanie Plum. This is one of my all-time favorite series. I don’t really care about the whole Ranger vs Morelli saga. I don’t think she should pick either. She doesn’t seem to really want to settle down, and neither do they. I just want her to have another goofy adventure with plenty of comedy thrown in.

This one ticks all my boxes for a Stephanie Plum adventure: Love triangle - check; multiple car casualties - check; Lula and Grandma Mazur in peak form - check; new quirky wingman - check; FTAs with unusual back stories - check; yummy food - check; and Stephanie being Stephanie - check. I don't know about you, but I flip flop back and forth between Team Joe and Team Ranger like an overcooked pancake. It's part of the fun, right? And Stephanie is still a hapless bounty hunter with plenty of tenacity and a ton of good luck. Even a professional treasure hunter gives her some props. Janet Evanovich is at the top of her game on this one, in my opinion. I had the good fortune of meeting her at an author event sponsored by my local library last year. Hearing her discuss her books has given my appreciation for the series a boost. Looking forward to seeing how the mysterious Gabriela Rose is developed in the final book of the trilogy and #28. Thank you to Atria Books and Edelweiss+ for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.

This Stephanie Plum book had a different feel to it. I feel that Stephanie is finally realizing that she is at crossroads and she is about ready to make some serious decisions. I am noticing some character growth and I will be happy to follow her further as she matures.

I have always wanted to read Janet Evanovich’s The Plum Novels, and this 27th book in the series really is a reason why these books end up in the NYT bestselling lists time and time again. In this installment, Stephanie Plum takes us into a high stakes treasure hunt after her grandma Mazur’s husband dies on the wedding night left with keys to some fortune. I loved the humor and the formidable characters in the book like George, the sidekick and assassin, and Gabriela Rose a gourmet cook and firearms expert who is always red carpet ready. Stephanie is not the only one on the hunt which makes this a dangerous mission. Overall, this was such a nail biting and thrilling read I loved! I am definitely a fan!

Congratulations to the winner of the FORTUNE AND GLORY Book Giveaway Contest. Tantalizing 27! Mick Addington | Aurora, CO. I liked his response: "Which guy do you want Stephanie to choose "Joe or Ranger?" "NEITHER. It's Me." Thanks for all the fun answers to the 3 questions: 1. Favorite Stephanie Plum Book? 2. Favorite Plum Character (s)? 3. Joe or Ranger for Stephanie? View the RESULTS HERE. Check out my fun Elevator ride interview with the fabulous #1 NYT Bestselling Author Janet Evanovich and get all the behind the scenes and more Plum trivia. A Treasure Awaits! Watch out, there's a new gal in town. Grandma Mazur gets plenty of action this time around and some new characters in the latest Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich—Fortune and Glory. 5 STARS. She has two dead husbands. The custom is to move your wedding band from your left to your right hand. Now she has two rings. But she thinks it is not right to have both of them so close together. Then she notices the dates inside the band from Jimmy, her latest mob husband who died. A clue? Jimmy Roselli was the Keeper of the Keys —Grandma Mazur's mob hubby. Died and left behind 3 keys in a La-Z-Boy chair. There are also, of course, the wedding rings (which may contain a clue or two). Two clues are inside a safe at the Mole Hole strip club with good burgers). Ace it #1 and Philadelphia #3. If you tried to open the safe without the keys, it's Hiroshima. The keys are needed to open a safe that contains something valuable. Jimmy, a south Jersey guy. He liked the shore. Wildwood, Cape May, and Atlantic City. He liked the slots and poker. So where? Grandma must find the secret treasure with Stephanie's help. It is a dangerous proposition. A safe. Diamonds, money, bodies, or what and where? What did Jimmy leave her? Jimmy's mob friends (6 of them) La-Z-Boys are after the treasure; however, Stephanie and Grandma Mazur are right behind them. Stephanie— has some competition this go around for Morelli and Ranger's attention. As always, she is loyal to her family and her cupcakes. But she is a bounty hunter and surely she can help Grandma find the treasure. But little does she know all the others on the trail. Morelli is kind of out of the picture—at the moment, and it is "game on" for Ranger. Gabriela Rose—A new kick-ass character. A Latina Wonder woman beauty, Rachel Ray, and GI Ninja rolled into one. (who will star in June 2021 novel And best of all: you get a sneak peek)! George Potts — Stephanie's new bodyguard, geeky sidekick, wingman. Age 37. Unemployed. He is allergic to everything, has PTSD, and lives at home, and plays video games in his PJs. More action and adventure— than ever. With Gabriela, Morelli, and Ranger. La-Z-Boys' Tunnels and the Mole Hole. Comic books—Superman and Uncle Scrooge. Even more cars: blowing up and buildings — (signature). Plus, it wouldn't be Stephanie Plum without some funeral home, caskets, viewings, and cemetery action. Lula is always up for an adventure as long as there is food around, especially chicken and donuts. Love her! Stephanie's Mom— threatening to put Grandam Mazur in an assisted living. Stephanie is feeling down. About her love life. Her job. Her apartment. Her inability to cook, shoot, figure out streaming, understand the cloud, or complete any of the books recommended by Oprah. She still has Rex her pet hamster and shared custody with Bob, the golden retriever with on and off again Joe Morelli. But now there is the mysterious beauty, Gabriela. Stephanie thinks she has her hooks into her ex-boyfriend, and now she thinks she is trying to steal her family's treasure. Always the conflict between Ranger vs. Morelli. Maybe Stephanie will decide she does not need to settle for either one. Plenty of action from Rangers SWAT team: Rangemen. Always some bad boys on the trail. La-Z-Boy(s) — Who knew a chair and good ole boy mob buddies could get so much action? When the journey is as exciting as the destination! Join in the fun. Want some laughs and entertainment? (don't we all crave right now, especially today). Find it here, better than ever! Janet Evanovich always has some surprises up her sleeve and more to come. Her best yet! #JDCMustReadBooks, A special thank you to Atria Books and Netgalley for an advanced reading copy.

Janet Evanovich never disappoints! This series is my most guilty pleasure (ok, I don't really that guilty). What can I say? If you are a fan, you will love this just as much as you love all the other books in the series. Stephanie and Lula are up to their normal hijinks. Stephanie and Morelli are off again. Stephanie has some romantic interludes with Ranger. I was a little disappointed that Lula did not feature as much in this book, but Grandma Mazur made up for that. A couple of new characters were introduced. Gabriela Rose reminds me a lot of a slightly less crazy version of Ranger's wife from a previous book. Evanovich promises to bring Gabriela forward to the next book. Potts makes an appearance as the "hanger-on perp" for the novel and is very similar to many "mom's basement-dwelling" perps from novels past in the series. He has a good heart and is pathetic enough to be good for a lot of laughs. If you haven't started this series yet, go back and start from the beginning. If you have, then I'm not writing for you. You already know you're going to read it.

Loved this 27th addition to Janet Evanovich's "Stephanie Plum" series!

“And then there’s me and Grandma with Superhero Derangement Syndrome.” – Stephanie Plum If I was to pick a word to describe “Fortune and Glory: Tantalizing Twenty-seven” I would use the word explosive. This light humourous read starts directly in the action and is packed with entertainment and adventure from start to finish. There is fighting, treasure, kidnapping, sex, mystery, humour and more. Janet Evanovich gives us our beloved cast of regular characters. Each one does what they do best. In addition, there are a couple of new characters introduced. One of my favourite things about The Stephanie Plum Series is the quirky characters. George Potts, new on scene in #27, fits nicely into the storyline and his character flaws bring him to life in an amusing, yet endearing, way. The mysterious figure of Gabriela Rose is introduced in wonderful little snippets of character development. Just enough information is given or suggested about her character to draw the reader in and leave the reader craving more. All that is done without drawing attention away from Stephanie. This novel is a nice addition to The Stephanie Plum novels.

I loved Fortune and Glory. Probably all that need be said is that it’s classic Stephanie Plum, which makes it an exciting and very entertaining read. The plot this time is the hunt for Grandma Mazur’s treasure, which may or may not exist but belonged to her late husband Jimmy, a gangster who shares the right to any treasure with four other very dangerous but very old hoodlums. And...cars get totalled, donuts and canoli get eaten, Lula is an absolute riot, some bail skippers are re-taken in near-farcical circumstances, possibly the world’s most annoying man who decides it is his mission to protect Stephanie and the poor woman once again has to juggle her love life between two of the sexiest men in New Jersey. Like I said, classic Stephanie Plum. It’s just great. I was completely hooked and laughed a lot. Janet Evanovich writes brilliantly, especially dialogue, and the whole thing is a monumental pleasure. Very warmly recommended – and there’s another one due in a couple of weeks. Hurrah!

Zany, crazy, funny, very entertaining and supremely addictive. I have read and devoured all 27 books. I thought the new character Potts was a great addition and he really made me chuckle a lot. Can’t wait for number 28!

I have to say that I enjoyed this book more than the others in the series. It was full of action and laughs. Stephanie is still Stephanie but I'm kind of at that point where I don't think it'll change...and I think I'm ok with that. Now to wait for the next one!

Wow! What a great read. This one is going to be my favorite of the year in the mystery/Legal Thriller category. Five and a half stars out of five. Full disclosure Connelly is one of my go-to favorites and it’s hard not to be a little biased. I like this book better than the last four or five of his Bosh novels. In this book he sets a dynamic conflict in the first few pages and initiates a great plot that never slows to give the reader a pause to take a breath. This is a mystery and not crime novel. We don’t know “who-dunit” even when it’s over at the end (one of the only problems with this book—small one). The reason I think I like the Lincoln Lawyer books, so more is due to writing craft. The Bosh books are third person and there is a feel of distancing between the character and the reader. The Lincoln Lawyer books are first person, up close and personal. So well done. What also makes this book such a dynamic page-turner is the micro conflicts. They are set up and executed with verve and great skill. As the plot winds out and Connelly feeds the reader information on the over arcing plot, the micro-conflicts are worthy of their own brilliant short story status. The only criticism is the ending, it’s a little too deus ex machina. I was only quasi-satisfied but that might just be me expecting more from one of my favorite authors. David Putnam author of the Bruno Johnson series.

Mickey Haller never thought in a million years that he’d have to defend himself. That day, however, has arrived. When Mickey Haller is stopped during what appears to be a routine traffic stop, he initially thinks nothing of it, until a search of his trunk reveals the dead body of one of Haller’s former clients inside. The next thing Haller knows, he’s in prison garb and awaiting a speedy trial. Fortunately for Haller, he has an entire team on his side including two ex-wives and his half-brother and retired Police Detective, Harry Bosch. Now he just has to prove “The Law of Innocence,” meaning that in order to prove that he didn’t do it, he has to prove who did. The court battle ensues with Haller, his law partner, Jennifer, and his ex-wife, Maggie McPherson, on his side against the prosecution which has it out for him from the get-go. The arguments are brilliantly plotted, and the action is wholly compelling. For those who love courtroom thrillers, "The Law of Innocence" delivers! What I loved most, besides the appearance of Harry Bosch, was how the predicament Haller was put in changed his persona. Haller is known for being big, brash, and larger than life. He is a showman in the courtroom: he often throws in a lot of antics and they tend to work to his advantage. Here, because he’s framed for a murder he didn’t commit, he understands the perspective of the clients he has represented all his life. That turn of events shows a softer, more humane side of him and it made me like him more as a character. I have never quite liked Mickey Haller and yet the way he was portrayed in this novel endeared him to me. I loved seeing him interact with his ex-wife Maggie and have high hopes for the two of them. For me, the characters truly brought this novel home. I have read every single book Michael Connelly has ever written (having started in the late 90’s) and I feel like I know the characters really well and think of them as friends. (Can I just say that the reappearance of Maggie McPherson was something else?!) What I also really appreciated about this novel is the fact that it is the first one I’ve read that includes Covid-19 in the storyline. Michael Connelly incorporated the virus in a very realistic way, which I must give him kudos for. I hope that other authors will follow suit. A huge thank you goes out to Edelweiss, Little Brown and Company, Hachette Book Group, and Michael Connelly for the arc of this book which will be published on November 10, 2020. *Review originally published in Mystery and Suspense Magazine on 10.2.20. Also published on Edelweiss and Goodreads on 10.4.20

Catching Up…& Update (2-6-26 below)... I love my neighbors and their donations to my Little Free Library Shed. Obviously, they are fans of Connelly, and this gave me an opportunity to re-visit this one. Mickey Haller is back defending a very important client. Himself. Apparently, someone decided to stuff a corpse into the trunk of his car. And, of course, the police discovered it, and thus, he has been accused of this individual’s murder. And, it doesn’t help that he was an ex-client. That doesn’t make Haller look so innocent, right? “The law of innocence is unwritten. It’s not a true legal term, can’t be argued in a court of law and doesn’t exist on the books. In the law of innocence, for every man not guilty of a crime, there is a man out there who is. And to prove true innocence, the guilty man must be found and exposed to the world.” (Hence: the title of the book!) And, then there is Harry Bosch. Because he is on team Haller in finding out the truth. Of course, if you aren’t familiar with who Haller or Bosch is, don’t start reading the series with this book. These are a couple of the most important characters in Connelly’s book character ensemble. Mickey Haller is the Lincoln Lawyer who has conducted his “lawyering” in the backseat of his Lincoln vehicle. And, Harry Bosch is the author’s well-known L.A. cop. Readers will love his brooding presence in this one as the two and other returning characters intend to prove Haller’s innocence. “When it came to opening statements, I was from the Legal Siegel school of law. He always said, save your powder, meaning less is more; don’t reveal your case or its surprises until it’s time to present your evidence.” Those who love stories with justice/legal proceedings and good investigative work will enjoy this one. Also, the pandemic looms in the background. Well-paced. Gripping. Page-turner. Update: Fans of The Lincoln Lawyer, will appreciate that Season 4 on Netflix is based on this book. Trailer: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pVvVN...

On his way home from celebrating another case win, Mickey Haller - the Lincoln Lawyer - is stopped by an L.A. police officer. At first it seems that this is a routine pull over, his rear licence plate seems to be missing. But then the truculent cop spots something else – is that blood dripping from the boot of his car onto the asphalt? When the boot is opened the body of a man can clearly be seen, Haller’s day has turned bad. Mickey finds himself in lock-up and more bad news quicky follows: his bail is set at an unmanageable figure by a judge he’d crossed sometime in the past. It looks like here he’s going to stay. He’s facing a murder charge and as evidence is gathered it becomes clear that Dana Berg, known by members of the downtown defence bar as Death Row Dana, is going to live up to her reputation for seeking the maximum available penalty. Moreover, Haller has decided to defend himself in court and he’s claimed his Sixth Amendment right to a speedy trial, but how is he going to pull his defence case together whilst locked up in jail? To me there’s nothing more comforting than settling down with a Michael Connelly novel. I trust him implicitly to nurse me through a complex narrative without getting me lost in a mire of names or confused by the fine detail. He’s truly the master storyteller. And I do love a good courtroom yarn! Haller pulls together a team that will ultimately comprise a bunch of characters regular readers will be familiar with, including two ex-wives and his half-brother Harry Bosch. I found this to be a truly immersive experience, I was totally captivated from the start and when I wasn’t reading I was thinking about the story and wishing time would pass more quickly so I could get back to the book. I’m not the fastest reader but I was done in half a dozen sittings over the course of a few days. I suppose I knew we'd end up where we did but not how we'd get there. And that's the case with most crime fiction, which means that for me the enjoyment is primarily in the journey more than the destination. Connelly manages to maintain both pace and suspense whilst sprinkling the tale with some nifty surprises and top end dialogue. As you'd expect, his set piece courtroom scenes are terrific. Yes, this is another book fans of the genre really should not miss. Some afterthoughts: 1. It’s another quality book from a writer at the top of his game. In my mind he’s never written a bad book - and I can think of few other writers I’d grant the same accolade. 2. The power of television and film was demonstrated to me by the fact that when I thought of Haller he wore the head of Matthew McConaughey and when Bosch arrived on the scene I saw and heard Titus Welliver. I think it’ll ever be thus. 3. A few new release books I’ve read recently are haunted by the menace of Covid-19 lurking in the background. It’s here too. 4. I remain fully in awe of how well MC has manages to have his key series characters – Haller, Bosch, Jack McEvoy, Renee Ballard and the late Terry McCaleb - maintain lead status in their own books whilst merging seamlessly into each other’s lives. It shouldn’t work, but it does. My sincere thanks to Orion Publishing Group and NetGalley for providing a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.

Mickey Haller is back! And this time he is defending himself... Michael Connelly is one of my all-time favorite authors! I love all his characters, the courtroom drama, the investigation. Mickey Holler is pulled over one night on the way home. The cop explains he is pulling him over because he does not have a back license plate, but what is that dripping out of his trunk? When i the trunk is popped open and a body is found, Mickey knows he’s been framed. But by who? And why? Finding himself in a Downtown LA jail Mickey is determined to defend himself, using his jail cell as his office. He knows his reputation will require him not only to prove his innocence, but also prove who committed the murder. All the gang is here, old characters and new. Even some surprises. Of course I was thrilled to see my favorite detective ever Harry Bosch, Mickey‘s half brother. Once again I was completely caught up in this intriguing investigation. I also always love to watch Mickey in action in the courtroom - not going to lie can’t help but picture Matthew McConaughey. The story takes place in the beginning of 2020 and it was interesting how the onset of the coronavirus was woven into the story, with an epilogue that really brought it home. Another stellar book from this amazing storyteller. This book in emojis 🚨 🩸 👩🏻‍⚖️ 😷 *** Big thank you to Orion for my gifted copy of this book. All opinions are my own. ***

Mickey Haller is back, with his most important capital murder client yet .... Mickey Haller. I tell you, I have loved Michael Connelly for years and when he has a SECOND new book out this year, AND I get to preview it early, it is like Christmas coming early. And though I usually prefer the Bosch books, I dare to say that this is Connelly’s best Mickey Haller book yet. I mean, is there a better setup than the police pulling over the Lincoln Lawyer only to find a body in his famous trunk? And that’s just the beginning! The story from there is Connelly’s usual brand of fantastic, but with even more intensity and higher stakes, because this time the life Mickey is saving in court is his own. Connelly lays out his usual perfectly written and fastidiously researched tale. As a former criminal lawyer, I can tell you that not only I, but many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle comprise an ongoing fanclub for Connelly for just how right he always gets criminal procedure, police procedure, and the law and justice in general. I sure wish every cop I ever worked with was like Harry Bosch and I also wish I had an opportunity to go up against (and probably be wrecked in court by) the great Mickey Haller. This is a great, nuanced work with cameos from all of our favorites (Bosch, Cisco) and some particularly wonderful scenes. I loved watching Mickey pick his own jury and also loved a totally ingenious bail argument that I’m sure defense attorneys around the country will soon be stealing. But most of all I loved the reinvigoration of an old relationship of Mickey’s. No spoilers, but if you know you know and you’ll love it as I did. Though this isn’t the first Lincoln Lawyer book, it works perfectly as a standalone and is, in my opinion, even better than the original first Lincoln Lawyer book. An easy five stars, and one of my favorite books this year — this book has heart, gravity and import. You will learn and feel as you read about the wrongful accusation against a character you know and love. It is also amazing, and equally compelling, how Connelly worked the pandemic into the plot. Highly recommended to both new readers and Connelly fans. Huge thanks to Little, Brown, NetGalley, and the amazing Michael Connelly for his brilliant ongoing perspective on justice and the law.

I am a Harry Bosch fan. But, when Connelly spun-off the Lincoln Lawyer Series with Bosch’s half-brother as, Micky Haller, a defense attorney I became a fan. Besides, Bosch often did some detective work for Haller. The book is well written. The characters are interesting and the suspense kept me up reading. In this story Haller is charged with murder and he decides to defend himself with the help of his firm and Bosch. The courtroom drama is great. If you enjoy Connelly’s writing, you definitely must read this book. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book is twelve hours and twenty-seven minutes. Peter Giles does a great job narrating the book. Giles is a Canadian actor and has narrated the entire Lincoln Lawyer Series.

Here in the Twin Cites today is the start of the trial of Derek Chauvin, the police officer who killed George Floyd last summer. This book may be a perfect primer for reading about that trial. This Mickey Haller story seems to have all the courtroom drama a person might need to understand the inner workings of a murder trial. About a week ago I met two friends here for coffee. We all were part of a group of mystery book fans several years ago. They both had recently finished this book and wanted to discuss it. I hadn’t read it yet, but I listened to their opinion and it may have influenced my take on this book. They were not that positive about the book. We have our opinions on how Connelly can turn out 2 books a year and they rode that horse hard. After reading the book I don’t think this was Connelly’s best Mickey Haller book. It may have something to do with the fact that Haller is both the defender and the defendant in this case. He doesn’t seem to have the swagger of his Lincoln Lawyer persona. Harry Bosch has a walk-on role in this book. I wish he could have played a bigger part in the investigation. As is my want I wish to comment on the ending. It went one chapter too long. The last chapter had some positive parts — the grocery store with empty shelves and his family situation — but the last portion of the chapter was not needed. The ending was way too tidy. For me reading, especially this genre, is for entertainment. I present to the court evidence that I finished this book in less than 2 days. It was a page-turner. Maybe not Connelly’s best, but I enjoyed it. If I want to reach my 2021 GoodReads Reading Challenge I perhaps should read more books like this.

Being pulled over by the cops after a night out at the bar is a bummer. But being pulled over after a night out at the bar and having the cop find a dead body in your trunk can really put a crimp in your life-plans. Michael Connelly's sixth novel to feature his lovable ambulance chaser, Mickey "The Lincoln Lawyer" Haller, "The Law of Innocence", finds Haller on the other side of the defense table. Or, rather, both sides of the table, as he is both defendant and his own attorney. Clearly being framed for murder, Haller has to convince a jury of his peers, as well as a stubborn prosecutor, that he is not only "not guilty" but that he's also innocent. (In the legal world, there is a distinction.) In order to exonerate him, Haller and his legal team (which includes his daughter, two ex-wives, his partner, his trusted detective, Cisco, and his half-brother, retired LAPD Harry Bosch) are working overtime to find the real killer (s). Another great legal thriller from Connelly. Looking forward to this book turned into a later season of Netflix's "The Lincoln Lawyer".

Haller, the Lincoln lawyer, is framed for the murder of a former client. The county attorney pursues his conviction with the same single-minded enthusiasm that they apply to Haller's clients, and Haller elects to defend himself. This is the legal equivalent of the oft-used trope where a detective is wrongly accused of a crime and must find the real perpetrator to save himself. Connelly, a former journalist covering the crime beat, is spectacularly good at capturing the subtleties of criminal trials. He is second only to Scott Turrow, who has been a practicing attorney all his life and thus is expectedly expert. John Grisham relies less on the lawyer/legal aspects for his novels and more on exciting/unbelievable plot twists, and so is disqualified from this competition. Most amazing about Connelly is that he brings the same detail, the same credibility to his Bosch novels, which are police procedurals. In Connelly we have most of Turrow's skill, plus most or all of Joseph Wambaugh's (a former LAPD officer who has written police procedurals.) A satisfying 'legal-procedural' with a worthy and clever plot to be revealed by the characters.

The Lincoln Lawyer Mickey Haller is forced to defend himself when the dead body of a serial con artist is found in the boot of his car when pulled over by the police. The LA defence lawyer faces a first-degree murder charge and decides to defend himself with the help of half brother Harry Bosch to help investigate. This difficult case is linked to a biofuel company run by a criminal with ties to the mob who Haller helped convict several years ago. The company is running a scam that is falsely receiving government pay-outs but Harry Bosch is on the hunt to uncover it. The main focus surrounds the court case itself and it is that suspense and intrigue that makes this book such a good read. As per usual Michael Connelly writes excellent thrillers that are superbly paced and worked out. I love a court room thriller and this one is top notch, great suspense and very good characters. Michael Connelly does it again producing possibly the best thriller of 2020. Highly recommended

Recent novels from Connelly, the modern maestro of LA crime writing, have focused on the investigations of long-running hero Harry Bosch and/or Detective Renee Ballard, a fierce new protagonist seeking justice in Bosch’s old stomping grounds in LAPD Hollywood Division. Bosch’s half-brother, sly defense attorney Mickey Haller, has made guest appearances, but in The Law of Innocence ‘the Lincoln Lawyer’ has top billing. And the stakes couldn’t be any higher: Haller finds himself charged with first-degree murder when the body of a former client, a conman who ripped off many including Haller, is discovered in the trunk of Haller’s car. The DA’s office has come out guns blazing to convict a man who’s thwarted them on so many occasions. There’s forensic evidence to back their case, and star prosecutor ‘Death Row’ Dana Berg is determined to put Haller behind bars for the rest of his life. Or keep him there – as thanks to a vindictive judge Haller has to prepare for the trial of his life while in custody. He’s made plenty of enemies over the years: did one set him up? Will others take their shots at him now? Connelly delivers a rip-snorting legal thriller that offers plenty of courtroom parry and thrust, while also giving readers fascinating insights into trial preparation and strategy with action aplenty even before the jury hears opening statements. Connelly’s keen insights into the realities of a flawed criminal justice system, as well as the character relationships, elevate this novel and the whole series to the top of the legal thriller class.

Always a good book when it's by Michael Connelly. He is one of my favorite authors and I love his characters. I love Bosch and I love The Lincoln Lawyer, who IMO will always be Matthew McConaughey. He was the perfect person to play this role and to me he is The Lincoln Lawyer. This book was a legal story, of course, about Haller being accused of murder and having to get his ex wife to represent him in court. The FBI gets involved and of course he is released from the crime. The book is about how the court finds a person either guilty or not guilty but never innocent and Haller wants to be innocent not just NG as he calls it. I definitely recommend.

Mickey Haller Finds Himself Where Many Clients Are...In Prison... A fabulous story that I could Not put down! (A typical Connelly problem I have!) Mickey is pulled over leaving a bar...No longer drinking he thinks nothing of it...Until the cop opens his trunk and puts him under arrest...For murder!! The bail set by a vindictive judge is $5 million...He elects to defend himself...And stays in jail...Refusing to remove any money from his daughter's college fund...But surrounded by dangerous men, and even more dangerous jailers...Mickey has his life in his hands...Trying to stay alive long enough to defend himself...He knows he has been framed...His Team believes in him, and want very badly to help... Innocence is hardly ever ruled in a courtroom, if Mickey ever makes it there...He must fight for his life...In more ways than one... A fascinating legal thriller, right up there with the Best...And the battle in the courtroom takes you right into the scene....I love that this author wraps up every little question by the end, and give a High Recommendation for All who enjoy a fabulous legal story.

Just finished the tv series based on the book. A cracker👍 Another cracker of a read. This book follows on from ‘The Fifth Witness.’ Mickey Haller is stopped by a policeman who finds a dead body in the boot of his car. Mickey has to defend himself from prison. Complex legal procedures explained as he seeks to prove his innocence. Not helped by a single minded Prosecutor or the FBI. Mickey becomes closer to his first wife and acquires a new driver. Can’t beat a Michael Connelly.

Thank you Michael Connelly. Thank you Netgalley. This was, without a doubt, one of the best books I’ve read this year. During these stressful months, concentration and focus, are sometimes difficult. This book came along at exactly the right time, which proves I am still capable of being totally engaged. Michael Haller, the Lincoln lawyer, is arrested for murder and we are lucky enough to join him and watch the trial. This book is perfect. The plot drew me in from start to finish. Yes, there were recurring characters but it works perfectly fine as a stand-alone. I was breathlessly involved with Haller and literally loathed the prosecutor. Boo, hiss! That’s great writing! Honestly, this is the reason that Connelly is so loved by fans like me. I could not have asked for a better gift than this terrific novel. Truly grateful for this ARC and I urge Connelly fans to sink into this book.

Connelly dazzles in this fast-paced legal thriller featuring the Lincoln Lawyer and my book crush, Harry Bosch.

Author Michael Connelly gifts us with a second book in this pandemic year and I, for one, am deeply appreciative. THE LAW OF INNOCENCE, features Mickey Haller, of Lincoln Lawyer fame, boxed into such a tight frame-up that it’s difficult to imagine how he will get himself out. He starts the book celebrating a courtroom win and in no time finds himself tangled up in a case defending himself on trumped up charges that escalate over time. At first blush, he can’t even figure out who’s out to get him, although the list seems expansive. For Connelly fans, Bosch (Haller’s half-brother) plays an active role in the case and it’s a pleasure to have the retired detective involved. There is something bittersweet about author Connelly’s choice to have his characters age appropriately throughout his books. Many authors leave their characters alone, forever frozen in time as iconic cutouts, unchanging and in stasis. Here we have Mickey Haller as an older character, with a daughter in law school and a previously ended relationship that lasted longer than both of his marriages combined. That makes sense time-wise since ‘his’ last book but is a big jump in his life as we knew it in that last book. This method answers questions readers may have about the characters but, well, life passes quickly and we can sense the change all the more when our favorite characters age. This is predominately a courtroom drama, and as such is taut and dynamic. I could not put it down and read the book straight through in one long arc. I loved it. Yes, I pictured the characters as their movie/TV actors. That made it more fun, oddly enough. There are twists and turns in the tale and red herrings galore. We’ve waited awhile for a Mickey Haller-centric book and it was worth the wait. This was a joy to read. I received my copy from the publisher through NetGalley.

C. J. Box continues to excite readers with unique crime thrillers that are full of suspense and action. The twenty-third book in the series featuring Wyoming Game Warden Joe Pickett is set in late March and early April when snow storms are still bringing two or three feet of snow at a time to the town of Saddlestring and its surrounding countryside. While Joe is hunting a wounded elk, he finds a vehicle on a remote mountainside on a large ranch. Then he finds a missing professor’s frozen and mutilated body. With a snowstorm hitting the area, Joe has to leave the body in place and notifies the local sheriff. Federal agents, local extremists, and Governor Colter Allen attempt to thwart Joe’s investigation. Meanwhile, Joe’s friend Nate and Liv Romanowski are rebuilding their falconry company. Geronimo Jones has come to them with a business plan for expansion. Additionally, a local group of extremists approaches Nate. They want him to join them. The characters are well defined. Readers get a good feel for Joe, his wife Marybeth, and Nate. Their characters have depth, and by this time in the series, they feel like well-known friends. Joe and Marybeth’s daughter Sheridan plays a much bigger role in this novel. The other supporting characters provide humor and conflict to enrich the reading experience. I enjoyed seeing how the characters responded to events and experienced changes in outlook. The writing is fluid and descriptive which helps readers envision the scenes without disrupting or slowing the flow. There was a strong sense of place causing me to feel as though I was living the events alongside the characters. The dynamic plot has a tremendous amount of conflict that kept me engaged throughout. The suspense intensified as the story progressed. The final action scenes are somewhat over-the-top, but consistent with other books in the series. Themes include violence, extremism, murder, deception, assault, and much more. The author also incorporated some contemporary issues into the story line that added depth to the novel. Overall, this was intriguing, entertaining, suspenseful, and had an action packed ending with compelling characters that kept me turning the pages as I sat on the edge of my seat. With exciting scenes and fascinating story lines that converge, this fantastic thriller felt authentic and timely. I’m looking forward to reading the next book in the series. Will one of the Pickett daughters get their own series? PENGUIN GROUP Putnam, G.P. Putnam's Sons and C. J. Box provided a complimentary digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. All thoughts and opinions expressed in this review are my own. Publication date is currently set for February 28, 2023. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine. ------------------------------------- My 4.5 rounded to 5 stars review is coming soon.

I have had the pleasure to read twenty three books featuring Joe Pickett. I have never been let down. Some are slower than others, some are like being on a runaway roller coaster. This book was the latter. Joe is often thought by those who do not know him to be dense but underneath that neutral expression is a very sharp mind. He manages to see things that others cannot or do not want to see. He never ceases to ruffle feathers of others that lack his tenacity. The setting is beautiful, his friends are supportive, his family is precious (except for Missy, the mother in law) , the plot is clever and the action is fast moving. The good part is this is an exceptional read for those who fancy this genre. The bad news is now I have to wait again for the next in this series.

BIG thanks to both G.P. Putnam's Sons and NetGalley for the opportunity to read and review an early copy of Storm Watch!! What a great book!! I was a bit disappointed by the last book ... but this one knocked it out of the park!!! Storm Watch finds Joe and Nate surrounded by a storm of peril. They confront it in different ways—and maybe, for the first time, on opposite sides. This one had all of the things I love about the series: A huge snowstorm, mystery, lots of tension, good guys who may or may not really be good, bad guys who may or may not really be bad, Joe's sweet dog, Daisy, and his wonderful daughter, Sheridan. May this series never, EVER end!

5 Stars for Storm Watch: Joe Pickett, Book 23 (audiobook) by C. J. Box read by David Chandler. On a hunt for an injured elk, Joe Pickett ends up finding a dead man. It looks like someone has shoved him through a ventilation fan in the side of a strange metal building far out on a billionaire’s land. Of course there’s a blizzard moving in and Joe can only take some pictures and then head back to town and file his report. Joe better keep his head on a swivel as this case gets investigated. Who knows how high this goes, the feds are involved and even the governor.

More shenanigans happen in Wyoming than I realized! Like every C.J. Box book I've read I learned something new in Storm Watch. I never learned anything about crypto-anything because it felt like a scam. Crypto-mining was a fascinating subject to learn about but more so how Box weaved crypto into the story. Storm Watch is a stunning display of Box's writing prowess and character development. The bad guys in Storm Watch are a **chef's kiss**. I've said it before and I'll say it again -- I would be the first in line for a Nate Romanowski standalone or series. My sincere thanks to G.P. Putnum's Sons and Netgalley for the opportunity to read an advanced c0py of Storm Watch!

Good story, ripped-from-the-headlines. I was skeptical that the story with several disparate threads could be pulled together, but they were to a satisfying conclusion. (There was one point where I had to wince at the coincidence -- i.e. Lucy's friend Fong and the info she provided. But I can overlook that.) I listened to the audio book at 1.5x speed. P.S. -- minor spoiler -- I think it's time for Sheridan to find a good boyfriend. She's smart, loyal, and interesting and I think she's grown-up enough at this point not to fall for these losers.

Pick a hot-button topic: Cybercurrency mining. Survivalists hoping to overthrow the government. Conspiracy theories. Politicians with questionable campaign donors. Chinese interference (find better word). You'll find 'em all in here. And caught smack dab in the middle are Wyoming game warden Joe Pickett and his falcon-loving, former fugitive-from-justice friend Nate Romanowski. The whole thing begins as Joe is looking for a wounded elk that needs to be put out of her misery and seems to be wandering around on a friend's remote property. Mission accomplished, but in the process Joe comes across something a bit more worrisome: a dead body half in, half out of a building from which strange sounds are emanating. The friend is evasive, and the subsequent identification of the body brings more questions than answers. Meantime, as Nate is dealing with burgeoning demand for his bird abatement business, he's approached by a shady guy who wants him to join a group of men who, like Nate, don't trust the government - but who want to kick their distrust up more than a few notches. Given his background, Nate is willing to listen - but will he jump in knowing the guns may come out? In the midst of this is the weather - snow deep enough to bring a several-ton plow to its knees - and a state governor who's power hungry, itching to get reelected and decidedly not a fan of Joe, who was aligned with the previous governor who just might decide to run again. All told, once the action gears up it's full speed ahead right up to an ending that probably has more potential to go wrong than right - and the whole thing held my attention throughout. Many thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review another of the books in one of my favorite series. Well done!

Storm Watch by C.J. Box will be the last book finished in 2022 and it sure is up among the best ones this year. It is always fun visiting Saddlestring Wyoming. Joe Pickett is one of the several game wardens I follow and I love the fact that there is a genre without the traditional police, private detective or military hero. I also love the side characters that are just as important as the "hero". I have followed this series since the beginning and have never been disappointed once and that is a great achievment for any writer. In this book we get bitcoin mining, poaching, murder, political power struggle and some kind of militant rebellion. Oh, and falconry of course. I love the new characters like Geronimo and the fact that Joes family is always taking a part in the story and actually is a big part of the solution. I also was surprised by the fact that Saddlestring has a new deputy that we all know from his blog and his new book Fields of Fire. I am really glad I got this copy and thank Edelweiss, G.P. Putnam's Sons and Penguin Random House for it as well as C.J. Box for keeping things western.

Great as always Love the characters, the setting, the animals, and the twisty lovely plot that keeps my attention. Once I get started, I hate to be interrupted so usually finish it in a couple of days. Then comes having to wait for the next. Highly recommend it. #23 in the series!

Great Jo Pickett book! I love the characters in the book.

Conspiracy upon Conspiracy :::sitting in numb stupor::: C. J. Box builds a mountain of a story, stacking it up from every angle and then boom! he blows the whole kit and caboodle sky high, then poof, the story is over. I’m sitting here going over what happened in that wild ride of a story and wondering if I should really try to do a teaser for this one? Title: Storm Watch; yes there are a couple of big and terrible snow storms in the Bighorn Mountains and some figurative storms brewing on the ground. On the very first storm day Joe Pickett was investigating reports of snowmobilers harassing elk. Not only did he see the crime in progress, he finds a dead body and gets shot at. Joe took pictures and didn’t mess up the crime scene, but Sheriff Tibbs with only days left on the job resents Joe bringing him trouble. Nate has a strange encounter with a man who comes out of nowhere trying to recruit him to join a subversive group. The guy seems like someone Nate might be friends with in another life. These things don’t look related, but in a conspiracy you never know who might be involved with who, and what’s really going on? This seemed to start a little odd, but when the pieces started to come together, as Joe would say, “it got real western up in there”. What we had was another bang up job for our favorite Wyoming Game Warden. Five stars.

CJ Box continues to write some of the best thriller/mystery fiction today. Like most of Box’s books this one does center around an issue popular today regarding Bitcoin and the Chinese government and government corruption here in the states. I absolutely love this series. It’s very real and continues the story of Joe, his family and friend Nate. My only regret is I’ll have to wait ANOTHER year before I get my next Joe Pickett fix. Buy this book when it comes out you won’t regret it! I was provided an early copy of this book through NetGalley

This story starts out with a "BANG' getting right to the plot. Bitcoin and it's meaning are brought out. Everyone wants part of the action. Game Warden Picket has his job to do despite bad weather, aggressive people and his mother in-law. Great story.

Another brilliant instalment in one of the best series out there. Together with Don Winslow and Daniel Silva, CJ Box is my absolute favourite author and he never disappoints. I can’t wait to read the next book. Highly recommended. Thanks to the author, the publisher and NetGalley for the copy.

Holy cow! C.J. Box is an amazing writer. Joe Pickett is an incredible man with the best support system of friends and family.

A big thank you to Head of Zeus and NetGalley for providing me with this ARC for my honest review. This book comes out on Feb. 28th so mark your calendars😊 What can I say? I love C.J. Box's books, he's one of my favorite authors and is an autobuy for me. I've been reading the series from the beginning, and Joe Pickett and Nate Romanowski are definitely 2 of my favorite book characters. I enjoyed reading this one as much as all the others😊 Storm Watch is the 23rd book in the series but can be read as a standalone. Wyoming Game Warden Joe Pickett is at it again. Stumbling upon things out of his jurisdiction while doing his job. But he can't just let things go when someone tells him to look away. He needs to pursue it with the help of his family and friends, he gets the job done. Just like the other Joe Pickett novels, I couldn't put it down. I needed to see what Joe would do next, especially with the big snowstorms rolling in. This book had murder, mystery, and suspense to keep you turning pages. The setting of Wyoming, my favorite state, is an added bonus, and the author actually transports you there. I loved this book and would highly recommend it.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Storm Watch Author: C.J. Box Source: TBR - new purchase Published: 2023 🚔 If someone had told me I would become a big fan of Wyoming Game Warden Joe Pickett, I would have laughed in their face. But I swear these Wild West stories are so darn entertaining. This 23rd novel is yet another twist with politics, the FBI, and China backing some crazy ideas about cryptocurrency and computers in the frozen state of Wyoming. Throw in Nate and Geronimo backing up Joe Pickett, and you get more fireworks than the 4th of July. If Mr. Box keeps writing these stories, I’ll keep reading them. Mr. Box remains one of my fav guilty pleasures. #joepickett #stormwatch #Wyoming #gamewarden #crookedpoliticians #politics #poaching #miningnaturalresources #gunsABlazing #rightVSwrong 🚔 #book #books #bookaddict #booksofinstagram #bookstagram #bookstagramer #bookshelf #booksbooksbooks #readersofinstagram #reader #booklove #bookreader #reader

Wyoming is known for its wind, snow, personal freedom, guns, and open spaces. All are used in this novel to allow Joe Pickett to win favor with the former governor and kill a group of local bad guys. Nate again returns to his past training to eliminate a small band of big-gun-packing militant activists. Not to be called a sexist, C. J. Box, uses the female members of Joe's family to take up guns and capture a bad guy in a blinding snowstorm. An exciting read on every page, give it a try.

4.5 Simon makes my heart stutter Stars The Duke and I has been on my TBR list for years, but I just never got around to reading it. Now I can't believe I waited so long. I wasn't two chapters into this book before I knew two things for sure 1. I loved the Bridgertons and 2. Julia Quinn would be a new favorite author. This book grabbed me right out the gate. It captivated my heart, and I fell in love with this big, loud but sweet family. This book was cute, at times sad and had me laughing out loud more times than I can count. Simon totally broke my heart. It bled for the way his dad was to him, and for all he had to suffer because of it. Simon was damaged but he was still a great guy. Daphne was funny, sassy, and very independent. I loved that she was honest and didn't play games when it came to how she felt. Simon and Daphne were very sweet together. They had a strong connection from their first meeting. I loved them as a couple. They weren't perfect they messed up, did things that hurt the other, but in real life love is messy and people are imperfect. Simon and Daphne's missteps made them more human, and relatable. I loved Daphne's whole family. Her older 3 brothers really had a cute protective roll in this book. I can't wait to read their books too. I also loved her mom. The whole family was very cute and endearing. Overall a great read and I think Julia Quinn has herself a new fan girl.

I'm officially a romance convert. I want to devour all the Bridgerton books now. I was into this from page one and couldn't put it down. This was one that I was carrying around with me from room to room. I LOVED Lady Whistledown's Society Papers at the beginning of each chapter. They are pure gold and really set the tone for life of the upper echelon in British Society. I normally read very meaty books; historical fiction, psychological thrillers...that has its drawbacks. Reading started to feel like a chore. This romance was a breathe of fresh are and exactly what I needed to yank me back into my love of reading. I was fully invested in the characters. I am beyond excited to binge watch all of Bridgerton on these last days of vacation...and order the second book by Julia Quinn!

Re-read/listened to the audiobook version Oct'2018: 5 stars (with some quibbles) - Historical Romance The audiobook narrator was great, and overall, it's still a 5-star read for me. But I will say, I didn't like or agree with the heroine's actions. (view spoiler)Daphne meant well and was trying to help Simon and things eventually worked out, but the drama between them felt manufactured at times. Original Review from Sept'2010: 5 stars – Historical/Regency Romance My introduction to author Julia Quinn was with the books The Lost Duke of Wyndham and Mr. Cavendish, I Presume, and I wasn’t at all impressed and found them really boring. Several GR friends told me they aren’t her best books or indicative of her other works and that I should give her popular Bridgertons series a chance. I’ve had several of JQ’s books on my TBR shelf for quite a while now, and after mourning the end of two of my favorite HR series, Lisa Kleypas’s beloved Hathaways and Gaelen Foley’s Knight Miscellany, I was looking for another series centered around a family. After hearing such great things about this series from so many trusted GR friends (and also knowing that several of them are on AAR’s Top 100 Romances of 2007 list), I decided to finally read the first book in the Bridgertons series, The Duke and I. And boy oh boy am I ever so glad that I did because it was absolutely delightful! I was worried that it might be a little bit too light and fluffy for my taste; and although there are several humorous moments (I can easily see why JQ is famous for her clever wit!), there are also deeper, emotional elements to the story as well. I loved steadfast, spitfire Daphne and gruff, tormented Simon, and they made such a fun, sweet, endearing couple. They had some wacky and serious obstacles to overcome to be together, but in the end, their HEA left a big ole happy smile on my face. I didn’t feel as strong of a connection to the characters or experience the same lust and love for the hero as I do with every Lisa Kleypas book, and I would have liked a bit (okay, a lot) more steam in the love scenes. But it was still a highly enjoyable, thoroughly romantic story, and I’m looking forward to reading more Bridgertons! 5 stars!

I have no idea why i have waited this long to read the very beloved "The Duke and I" which is the first instalment in the historical "Bridgerton"-series which follows the lovely Daphne Bridgerton and her brothers bestfriend,the very seductive duke Simon Basset.These two meet in a quite unexpected (and hilarious) way on a ball and their life never gets to be the same again.Simon and Daphne`s romance only develops with their plan of fake engagement to make other men more interested in Daphne and to keep all those crazy husband-hunting women away from Simon.In between we have the lively Bridgerton family who brings joy and humor into this tale of true love! I found a swedish translation in the library,and also by my rating its quite obvious that i absolutely love this book and everything in it.We have the emotionally wounded Simon who battles his painful child-hood because of his stammering that made his father treat him like he was dirt beneath his foot.Daphne who have grown up in a warm loving family is the perfect woman to give the peace and love Simon always have yearned for.There are so many memorable scenes in this book that makes me warm all over,such a wonderful romantic tale Quinn have created with this story!Oh darn how great Simon and Daphne are together,how they just blend into each other and understand each other.Their chemistry is so smoldering and fiery that i was totally rooting for their HEA all the way!How i also came to adore the other family members of the Bridgerton,especially Daphne`s older overprotective brother (the very alpha) Anthony Bridgerton!Like many others i also wonder who the mysterious Lady Whistledown is...?

Re-listened 1/10/2021 After watching the Bridgertons on Netflix I figured I'd go back and reread this series. It's been a year and a half since I had read this book in particular. _______________ I bought this audio on 9/17/2017 and I decided to read it before the Netflix series comes out. I really enjoyed the story of Simon & Daphne and their determination to get out of having to deal with the dating world by coming up with a plan to have Simon court Daphne. Their plan gets out of hand and they find each other married to one another. Overall a sweet and funny romance for the ages. The Duke and I is the first book in the Bridgertons series. There are 8 Bridgerton siblings who each get their own book to tell their love story. Lovers of historical romances will enjoy this tale between the eldest daughter of a very involved family and a stuttering duke. Their love story will capture the reader's heart with their witty banter and at times the laugh-out-loud moments. Follow Foxy Blogs at: Foxy Blogs ♥ Twitter ♥ Instagram ♥ Facebook

I just love a good romance. Sparks has done it again. If you love romances and happy endings then you should grab a copy of this one. I bet we see this one on the big screen in the future. 5 stars and I HIGHLY recommend this book.

The Return by Nicholas Sparks a four-star you will return too. This was like a story of two parts the first half I nearly didn’t finish multiple times, but the second half was all five-star read. The first half wasn’t a bad story, it was just so descriptive, and repetitive, normally I like a good description, but this just kept going. The thing I did enjoy so much was Carl Haverson a man we didn’t meet physically but a man who left a hole, big and dark and needing to be filled, ideally with the flowers like Roses and bees he loved so dearly. But mostly this is the story of his grandson Trevor Benson a convalescing, disabled veteran physician who has a story to tell and one that you should read, he brings some great characters to life and will show you different sides to people and he gets them to reveal themselves like petals from a flower opening. This does follow the typical Nicholas Sparks line, but if you enjoy his work then you will enjoy this as well.

The Return by Nicholas Sparks My feelings after receiving this book: Well, from childhood I have three fantasies, One) I will date Harry Potter, Two) Chris Evans will reply to my msgs, Three) One day I will receive a copy from Sir Nicholas Sparks or the publisher of his upcoming book! 2 years back the last fantasy was as impossible as me dating Harry Potter or the other one! Mr. Sparks’s books are the reason that I ever started reading novels. I still remember the year 2014, for the first time I saw “The walk to remember '' and i loved that movie so much that I researched about it and found out the movie is based on a book written by The Nicholas Sparks, that's the start! I fell in love with every work he did, every book, every plot,every line, every character! I also fell in love with North Carolina! I have never been there but it feels like i know this place. It's like i visited the place through the stories of Mr. Sparks, through the stories of Noah-Allie,Landon-Jamie,Hope-Tru(the characters who lived there). Back then I wasn't so fond of reading but Mr. Sparks kind of forced me to be “a novel person”!! And also a reviewer! I know it's totally funny to you guys, I GET IT!!! I always wait for his books like you guys can't imagine. So in January when he posted about the release date , that the book is releasing on 29th september, i posted everywhere the famous green day song “ Wake me up, when september ends!!” Because the feeling was just like that. Then after moving here in the UK one night suddenly a thought clicked inside my brain and I wrote an email to the publisher with a rejection expectation(truly I believed that they wouldn't respond to me!) and 3 weeks before they mailed me that they are willing to send me a copy! And last week i received it! Trust me, that day was one of my BEST DAY EVERR!! I totally freaked out, screamed , don't remember what else i did, Lastly thanked god for this! Now I will thank Nicholas Sparks and Little, Brown and Company for this book! Now about the book: Well, like every other book of Mr. Sparks this story is also based in New bern, North Carolina. This is a story of Trevor Benson, a surgeon who used to serve the army in Afghanistan and after an explosion he got injured and lost his fingers. Due to this reason he had to change his profession to psychiatry where he himself is suffering from PTSD! After the death of his grandfather he returned to New bern to live and think about what he will do with his grandfather’s beloved house which he inherits now. The story has two mysterious characters which you will discover as you read. First a teenage girl Callie, who may or may not be connected with the reason for Carl's death(Trevor’s grandfather) because the place of his death creates some suspicion to Trevor that he wants to find out. Second, a female deputy Natalie Masterson, Trevor fancy her and both of them are really attracted to each other but for some reason she is reluctant to be with him , especially in public, which makes Trevor confused and enchanted towards her! But the question is why Natalie is behaving this way, why she is keeping herself from the feelings. To find out you have to read the book my dear! There is no question how much I loved the book, and I learned a lot about bee farming just the way I learned infos about safari after reading “ Every Breath”.haha! So i just finished reading another masterpiece from The Nicholas Sparks!! God I am still having goosebumps!! All the best Mr. Sparks for your upcoming gem! And thank you again to @little,brown and company for sending me the book.

I really love the story...

When Nicholas Sparks writes a new book, I can’t wait to read it! This one is a great romance. Grabbed me from page 1 and kept me busy during all the chaotic political “stuff” going on. Loved it!

I absolutely loved this new romance that touched my heart in all of the right places. Trevor Benson is a Navy Vet recovering from a serious injury. He returns to his grandfather’s home in New Bern, NC to make some serious life choices. It also seemed to me that he was there to say farewell to his beloved grandfather. While there, he meets a deputy in the sheriff’s department, Natalie Masterson, and the two fall hard for each other. But there is a complication that just broke my heart. No one can break your heart and put it back together again like this master storyteller! Then, there was the subplot of teen-ager Callie who was like a porcupine. She wanted to be left alone but she also needed to survive. Trevor’s stepping in to try to befriend and help Callie was so touching. I could just imagine the whole thing! I think my favorite parts were when the author educated me about beekeeping. As Trevor cares for his grandfather’s bees, he tells Natalie what he is doing and why and I learned more than I thought possible. I also enjoyed the setting since I have family in the New Bern area. There was nothing about this book that I did not enjoy, so I highly recommend it. I own a copy of the book and all opinions expressed are my own.

Is it summer? It must be because Elin's new Nantucket book is almost out. Every year, I wait (in)patiently for her new story. I have enjoyed so many of her other books and she always amazes me with how she is able to transport me to Nantucket, a place I have never been (but I want to go). So what did Elin have in mind for this novel? Well, I would say that she centers the storyline on the people working at the Hotel Nantucket. The hotel was an eyesore until British billionaire, Xavier Darling decides to buy it and renovate it in the most luxurious way. He hires Lizbet Keaton as his general manager. He tells her that he bought the hotel to impress two women. One of them is a mysterious blogger who rates hotels as Keys. No hotel has been able to get the 5 Keys. Darling wants the Hotel Nantucket to be the first. He doesn't tell Lizbet who the other woman is. Lizbet decides to apply for the job after she discovered her boyfriend and chef of their restaurant sexting with another woman. No one on the island would have thought that they would break up after so many years. Liz knows she needs a change and demonstrating to the world that she can make the hotel a success becomes her next goal. She hires quite a few people and she is happy with her choices although she doesn't know the secrets they are keeping. Thankfully, the readers will get to discover all of them one by one including the person responsible for the death of a chambermaid killed in 1922 who has been haunting the hotel since her death. My new favorite Elin Hilderbrand's audiobook!! Erin Bennet's masterful narration does a wonderful job of bringing these characters and Nantucket to life. I liked all the characters but I guess my favorites were Lizbet, Longshot, and the kids. I also loved how Elin incorporated some of her past characters from other books into this one. I always like to know how those characters are doing. In this case, Fast Eddie made a few appearances. In addition to writing a fun and entertaining story, Elin gives us at the end of the book a list of places to visit in Nantucket. I know I will need it when I go. I just don't know if I want to go in the summer or for Christmas. Cliffhanger: No 5/5 Fangs A complimentary copy was provided by Hachette Audio, Little, Brown & Company via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

Hotel Nantucket Loved, loved this book. For what it is, a chocolate and popcorn book that most others call a hot summer read. An easy five stars for me. The writing is smooth and almost luxurious and easy to drop into the fictive dream. This is because of the great writing craft. The author maintains several plot lines juggling them with skill and verve. But what is really impressive about this story is the micro-conflicts that come and go, branches to the main trunk. The setup or conflict is rooted in a damaged love story, the main character’s heart is unjustly crushed by a long-time boyfriend. Add to this the start-up of a refurbished hotel that the new owner wants it to meet the highest standards on Nantucket island. There is a mystery hotel reviewer that holds sway and is pandered for a five-star review. A status not unlike a Michelin Throw into the mix a ghost. Yes, a ghost, but this apparition is only used as spice and to reveal past information that helps give the hotel equal weight as a main character. Which is difficult to do. The trials and tribulations are buried in the relationships that interact in and around the hotel. They swirl and ebb in such away the reader can’t look away and is tugged along in a most favorable way. The author flirts with maudlin and melodrama but never crosses that line. I highly recommend this novel. If you’re in need of a little ginger the same as in a sushi dinner to clear your literary palate this is the one for you. David Putnam author of the Bruno Johnson series.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ (5/5 Fiction) Elin Hilderbrand could write a phone book, and it would be my favorite book of the summer. Her books are creamy ice cream in a fragrant waffle cone on a hot summer day, they’re your favorite song surprising you on the radio with the windows down, the smell of fresh lilacs on a 70-degree morning. This book is the perfect companion on your next summer trip. Our book follows the opulent unveiling of Nantucket’s newest hotel. It had been abandoned for years, was rumored to be haunted, and was such an undertaking that Nantucket residents were resigned to living with the eyesore forever. That is, until billionaire Xavier Darling buys the hotel and spares no expense renovating it. The amenities alone will leave you considering switching out all your bedding for @matouklinens . With the new hotel comes the staff, each with rich backstories and baggage of their own. I think you guys will just adore this book. Juicy, addicting, and totally decadent, this book is the perfect beach read. Yes, there is a ghost, but it’s so well done and fun, don’t let it get to you!! Best paired with the fabulous cocktail from the novel, The Heartbreaker (not Heartbroken!!), which we don’t have a recipe for, but is some combination of vodka, strawberries, ginger, and blood orange. Play around with it! Worst case, you get tipsy, best case, you’re a mixologist!! P.S. It is good to know I am a card-carrying Elin addict. I trekked to Nantucket on my honeymoon because Elin painted the island as the most romantic, most perfect, dreamiest place on earth… and she was not wrong.

in a shocking turn of events.. i’m obsessed this is my first elin hilderbrand book and it will not be my last. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Five keys for the Hotel Nantucket! While I have to admit that I did not feel as attached to these characters as I was to those in 28 Summers and Golden Girl, Elin wrapped this one up so seamlessly that I caved and awarded the fifth key. Part ghost story and part romance, we follow Lizbet and her staff as they revive the Hotel Nantucket into something magical after ten years of vacancy. We learn so much about both the hotel’s workers and the island’s regulars; even the hotel’s very own supernatural phenomenon, Grace Hadley, gets her time to shine in the spotlight. I would absolutely ADORE to read more and follow the staff into their second seasons at the hotel. Elin does an amazing job (as always!) of transporting the reader to beachy, beautiful Nantucket, and I can see this book inspiring many real life trips to the island. My next Elin read? The Blue Bistro. I hope Mario makes an appearance!

This 5 ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ audiobook is so fantastic that I want to shout from the rooftop to encourage people to listen to it! The Hotel Nantucket by Elin Hilderbrand; (narrated by Erin Bennett) is a magnificent women's fiction novel that is a must-read! Let's meet the characters: Lizbet Keaton is looking for a fresh start after a disastrous breakup in a long-term relationship. She lands an exciting brand-new job as the general manager of The Hotel Nantucket. Given a staff of humorous colleagues, this proves to be quite an adventure. The Hotel Nantucket was a decrepit old hotel that Lizbet's billionaire boss Xavier Darling had exquisitely remodeled and turned into a place of high-end vacation dreams. Listeners of the audio will come across delightful Grace Hadley, a nineteen-year-old ghost living anonymously at the hotel after being killed in a fire in 1922. The spirit of Grace joyfully roams the hotel, amusingly haunting the staff and guests. Will this phenomenon scare off the guests? Will The Hotel Nantucket be a raging success with the elite clientele or a humiliating disaster? The release date for The Hotel Nantucket is June 14th. It is magnificently funny with a perfect touch of romance and heart-touching emotion. Erin Hilderbrand's description of the hotel feels like you are in the audiobook. Thank you, NetGalley and Hatchett Audio, Little Brown Books, for allowing me to review this outstanding audiobook. I am so in love with it that I have listened to it twice! Lol! 🥰

Summer is Elin Hilderbrand novels! The Hotel Nantucket delivers all the goodness of a beach read and all the excellence of Nantucket within its pages. The Hotel Nantucket is renovated and returned to its former glory; however, the new owner's main goal for the summer is acquiring the elusive "5th Key" from renowned hotel blogger Shelly Carpenter. Throughout the summer the mysteries and secrets of the hotel staff and guests emerge and are revealed. The biggest mystery running through the novel is the ghost of Grace Hadley who died in the hotel in the 1920s. Her presence as an omniscient narrator is such a sweet touch and this perspective works perfectly in the book with so many characters, allowing the reader to get to know the characters without the characters themselves knowing their stories are being revealed. As always, Hilderbrand's surprises in the closing chapters are perfect, and the book ends with most characters relatively unscathed. There's even a possibility of a sequel (or maybe I just really like some of these characters and the hotel and want to keep reading about them) in my opinion! Elin's "Blue Book" makes me want to visit Nantucket even more than I wanted to before! Someday...

I may not have read too many books by Elin Hilderbrand yet, but of the ones I HAVE read I have loved them all, and The Hotel Nantucket is no expectation. This has been one of my favorites by her so far actually, and even though some readers weren't a huge fan of all the different subplots and characters happening here, I loved every single minute of every single one. I swear that half of the reason I loved it so much is that I listened to the audiobook which is narrated by Erin Bennett, and she helped make this a story I could not put down. Bennett has narrated basically all of Hilderbrand's novels and believe me when I tell you that you can't go wrong with listening to the audio. Something extra special about The Hotel Nantucket that is not included in the audiobook is a list of places Hilderbrand recommends to stay and go to while on Nantucket, and while it isn't a comprehensive list, it is vast. I highly look forward to someday making the trip out there and getting to use this guide. The Hotel Nantucket is perfect to take with you to the beach, and there is a lot going on which keeps things interesting. One of my favorite viewpoints was definitely the ghost, and while not all readers are going to love the inclusion of her, Grace's story and sense of auras for the people who come into the building was priceless to me. Summer doesn't really start for me until I read a book by Mary Kay Andrews, but at this point, I can say the same about Elin Hilderbrand. Not all the stories are completely fleshed out due to the multitude of different characters, but there was enough for me to get a sense of each of them and their purpose in the story. I also loved the inclusion of both the Traveltattler reviews and the occasional review of the author of Hotel Confidential who is a person (likely female) that goes and stays at different properties and gives out key ratings. 5 keys are the max, and something they have never given out, which is what drives the story here and the hope that Hotel Nantucket will be the first. There is also everything else you would expect including romance, drama, and mystery, and I highly recommend taking The Hotel Nantucket with you on your next vacation!

This was the perfect beach read, I've never read Elin Hilderbrand before this and she had won me over with this book. The Hotel Nantucket was messy, dramatic and full of gossips. It was filled with so many interesting characters that it was hard for me to decide which ones would be my favorites. Every character played an important role here, he/she added flavours and colors to the book. There were so many characters but it wasn't hard to keep track of them. Anyone who wants a comfort read to lose oneself in, this would be a suitable choice.

This book was just the perfect escape to Nantucket! I loved the concept of a haunted hotel that was just bursting with secrets and scandal! Add in some compelling friendships and sizzling relationships, this one was hard to put down! I relished with how well Hilderbrand was able to weave such a large and endearing cast of characters through multiple entertaining and intriguing storylines. I was fully connected and immersed in each and everyone of them and I never wanted it or them to end! While I was able to foresee a bit of the mysterious reveal at the end, it was still executed flawlessly and I enjoyed it throughly! This is such an ideal setting to be whisked away too making this the ultimate summer read that you need in your beach bag! 4.5 stars rounded to 5 for goodreads

Name of Book: Hotel Nantucket Author: Elin Hilderbrand Genre: Chick Lit ~ Beach Read Publisher: Little Brown and Company Pub Date: June 14, 2022 My Rating: 4+ Stars ~ Rounded up Hmmm summer is right around the corner and it is time for “The queen of beach reads” to release a new story. I am a big Elin Hilderbrand fan; this is #22 for me and I am so ready to be transported to Nantucket. After a fire in 1922 that killed Grace Hadley a young chambermaid, The Hotel Nantucket quickly made a quick nose dive as one the elite hotels on the island. Now, billionaire Xavier Darling wants to bring the hotel back to its glory and erase the hotel’s bad reputation. He is having some difficulties. Grace Hadley was the young chambermaid who died in that fire, she is now haunting the hotel as she believes she was murdered and won’t rest until that fact is acknowledged. We EH readers have expectations from recurring reads: SO immediately my reaction is …..What? This story is not written in typical Hilderbrand style of chapters with repeated POVs one of which includes Nantucket!  In this case there are actual chapter numbers with titles; however, “The Cobblestone Telegraph” has recurring chapters.  We do have the signature Hilderbrand playlist of old and/or new songs!  Love that characters from past stories made an appearance ~ Fast Eddie in his Porsche Cayenne and Panama hat and the mention of Fiona Kemp who was the chef at “The Blue Bistro. I had a big smile on my face when it was mention that a local author was sad about sending her son off to college wearing one of his t-shirts. I am sure the t-shirt had a Gamecock on it. We EH fans know that Maxx recently graduated from the University of South Carolina! In this story we have Wanda Marsh an eight-year-old Nancy Drew fan who writes an article about Grace Hadley’s ghost living in the Hotel’s fourth floor closet. The article is printed the “The Cobblestone Telegraph”; The Hotel Nantucket is now the “in” place to stay! Aww so many fun interesting characters ~ I don’t want to spoil it for you! Ms. Hilderbrand does not disappoint. Want to thank NetGalley and Little Brown and Company for this eGalley. This file has been made available to me before publication in an early form for an honest professional review. Publishing Release Date scheduled for June 14, 2022.

Elin’s books scream summer for me. Her books are like a vacation; the absolute best vacation. I do not know if I will ever get to Nantucket (at the top of my bucket list), but while reading The Hotel Nantucket, I certainly felt like I was there enjoying the food, drinks and beautiful island. Elin has a way of creating characters you genuinely like and cheer on even the most broken ones. There are a lot of characters in this book, but Elin spun her magic and I was able to keep them all straight and follow along with ease. The perfect summer book has a mix of mystery, romance, delicious food, a picture perfect beach town and a lot of gossip! The best summer books take you away to a place where you forget your stress filled every day life for just a little while. Oh, I almost forgot about the hotel ghost, Grace. She is like Casper with a witty sense of humor who snoops around the hotel sliding into the guests hotel rooms hoping someone will discover the truth of her death on the fourth floor of the hotel. Throw this one in your beach bag. You will not be disappointed.

Wow I loved this one. I felt that this one echoed exactly how I felt when I read The Blue Bistro. Such a strong sense of place, you feel like you’re inside the hotel. I love when books can transport me places. It is such an escapist book. If you’re looking for your next beach read I highly recommend this!

This is the first Hilderbrand book I've read but it won't be the last. Enjoyed all the different POV's including one from the 'town.'

There is no such as thing as summer without a novel from the Nantucket goddess herself, Elin Hilderbrand, and this year she bestows upon us, THE HOTEL NANTUCKET....a juicy fun wild ride of book with a full cast of characters, including a ghost, a chambermaid that died inside the hotel in 1922, and who has "haunted" the hotel for decades, waiting for her murder to be acknowledged. But....just because there's a ghost (a friendly ghost!) doesn't mean this isn't still an Elin Hilderbrand book. It's got everything you want; the food; the beaches; the romance; the hint of mystery; and a list of characters that you're rooting for even the ones that are behaving badly.... 😜🤫🤭 The novel tells the story of a woman, Lizbet, taking over the general manager position of The Hotel Nantucket in present day 2022 after it has been purchased by a London billionaire, and fully renovated, hoping to restore it to full glory and earn a treasured "5 Keys" review from a hotel review blogger. Lizbet is tasked with hiring a full staff and overseeing the operations, and trying to maintain excellence in customer service, and Grace the ghost appears every now and then to cause a little hijinx. It's a truly fun read, I read it in a couple days; Elin never disappoints, I always start my summers with her novels!

Counting Miracles written by Nicholas Sparks was absolutely beautiful and heart breaking. In my honest opinion, Counting Miracles is Nicholas's best work yet, this was an all time FAVORITE for me. There will NEVER be a time where I am NOT in awe over Sparks's stories. I will forever be honored to have read this book, because anyone who knows me, knows I'm a HUGE fan of Nicolas Sparks. This book, the characters, and their stories left me completely speechless and heart broken. I know these are just fictional characters, but as you read their story, they feel like real humans to you and I love that about Nicholas Sparks, he makes you feel like you have known these characters forever. Nicholas Sparks writes from his heart and you can truly feel that pain. You can feel the pain and rawness from each character. There were many times where I just wanted to reach into my kindle and hug these characters based on their stories and emotional baggage. The snot bubbles were bubbling the entire time I was reading this book. Please do yourself a favor and mark your calendars for September 24th, 2024 because Counting Miracles is no exception. I love love love this book with my whole entire heart. THANK YOU TO NETGALLEY AND RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP- BALLANTINE FOR AN ARC OF THIS BOOK IN EXCHANGE FOR AN HONEST REVIEW!!!!!!! Tanner Hughes has been raised by his grandparents for as long as he can remember. His mother died minutes after giving birth to Tanner, and he also knows nothing about his biological father. Tanner's grandfather was a former Army mechanic and Tanner wanted to follow in his grandfather's footsteps and make him proud, so Tanner became an Army Ranger. Before Tanner's grandmother passed away, she left him a note: Find where you belong and make that place your own. On the back of that note, Tanner's grandma left the name of his biological father and where can possibly be found. Tanner was in the Army for fourteen years, he then left the service and worked for the USAID for over six years, then Tanner left for Cameroon to work for the International Rescue Committee. Tanner Hughes is boyfriend material, both of his arms are covered in tattoos, he has green/hazel eyes depending on sunshine on light, muscled, high cheek bones, defined jawline, and wavy dark hair, if you ask me, Tanner Hughes is a cinnamon roll. After Tanner receives this note from his grandmother, he sets out for Asheboro, North Carolina to look for his biological father. I couldn't help but cheer Tanner on as he went on this beautiful journey. Tanner has been in town for less than twenty four hours when he meets Kaitlyn Cooper. Kaitlyn's daughter backed into Tanner's car at this bar/restaurant. Kaitlyn is a doctor and a single mom to Casey and Mitch Cooper. Kaitlyn divorced from her husband George who is an interventional cardiologist. Following the divorce of her parents, Casey became the queen of excuses, but she never gave her mom a hard time, Mitch viewed his father as a real life super hero. Kaitlyn Cooper has a story to tell, but Tanner can't exactly put his finger on what her story might be. As Kaitlyn and Tanner start spending time together, their stories eventually spill out. Jasper Johnson is just a widowed eighty-three year old man that lives alone with his dog Arlo in a cabin bordering a national forest. Arlo was such a cute and sweet pups, he's part Labrador and part mystery mutt. Jasper has many medical conditions, including burn and grafting scars that cover more than half of his body. Jasper, Tanner, and Kaitlyn find a way to connect with one another throughout this book, but you will need to read Counting Miracles to find out their connections. Jasper, Tanner, and Kaitlyn will forever remain in my heart. Like I said before, Counting Miracles is a heart breaking story, so do yourself a favor and keep the tissues close by.

A magical white deer is one reason to give this one all the stars. I am always up for a new title from Nicholas Sparks. Here are some additional reasons to love this new release: 🤗 You will want to hug Jasper Johnson. A man whose life mirrors that of Job. He has lived a life of blessing and tragedy. 🦮 Arlo, Jasper's dog, is one of my new favorite fictional canines. 🙏 High marks to Sparks for the character development of Jasper and his past with a father who was well-versed in the truth of scripture. Jasper follows in his footsteps in applying verses to his life situations. 👫 Tanner and Kaitlyn are a middle-aged couple to root for. They make some foolish decisions early on, but you will get your happy ending. 📣 High marks for Kaitlyn's kids. Both Casey and Mitch are delightfully drawn by the narrative. Thank you to Random House and Edelweiss+ for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.

Tanner Hughes was raised by his grandparents because his mum passed away when he was born and he became an Army Ranger like his grandfather. He's lived most of his life overseas, he returns to the America when he finds out his grandmother is sick and before she passes away she gives him the name of a man who she thinks is his father. Tanner drives to Asheboro, North Carolina, and his plan is to study old phone books and follow up any leads about men with the last name his grandmother gave him and could possibly be in the right age group to be his dad. Kaitlyn Cooper is a doctor in Asheboro, she’s divorced and has two children Casey and Mitch. Kaitlyn and Tanner meet, there’s a spark of attraction between them, but Kaitlyn doesn’t want to have a fling and with a man who’s only going to be in town for a couple of weeks and is returning to Africa. Tanner and Kaitlyn share the same ideal of helping others and giving back to the community and are fearful of being in a relationship and especially Tanner who doesn’t stay in one place for long. Japser is eight three, he lives alone in a cabin with his dog Arlo and his land borders on Uwharrie National Forrest, he hears rumours about a white deer being spotted in the area, a creature that he’s been told by his father and grandfather is sacred and how it provides a spiritual message and guidance and he wants to protect it. The tale is told from the points of view of Tanner, Kaitlyn and Jasper. Each of them have been hurt in the past, Jasper was burnt in a terrible house fire, he lost his entire family, he gets up every morning, his body aches and itches and Kaitlyn is his doctor. I received a copy of Counting Miracles from Sphere Publishing and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. I haven’t read a book by Nicholas Sparks in ages, I can remember sobbing while reading A Walk to Remember twenty two years ago and he hasn’t lost his touch or way with words and he writes with feeling. A story about family and love, finding were you come from and a home, settling down and the future, animals and what they mean to people, whittling and kindness, forgiveness and finding peace. Five stars from me, some readers didn't like the biblical versus in the novel, I wouldn't class it as Christian Fiction, everything included in the story is there for a reason and you need to find it like Jasper did.

Every time I read a Nicholas Sparks book, I am reminded how much I love his writing and characters. The emotional attachment I feel toward them is unmatched. He does it so so well every time and always makes me feel something. Great story!

I have never once been disappointed in a Nicholas Sparks book, so I was excited to see this new book, Counting Miracles, and couldn't wait to read it. Of course, I loved it! Description: Tanner Hughes was raised by his grandparents, following in his grandfather’s military footsteps to become an Army Ranger. His whole life has been spent abroad, and he is the proverbial rolling happiest when off on his next adventure, zero desire to settle down. But when his grandmother passes away, her last words to him are find where you belong. She also drops a bombshell, telling him the name of the father he never knew—and where to find him. Tanner is due at his next posting soon, but his curiosity is piqued, and he sets out for Asheboro, North Carolina, to ask around. He’s been in town less than twenty-four hours when he meets Kaitlyn Cooper, a doctor and single mom. They both feel an immediate connection; Tanner knows Kaitlyn has a story to tell, and he wants to hear it. To Kaitlyn, Tanner is mysterious, exciting—and possibly leaving in just a few weeks. Meanwhile, nearby, eighty-three-year-old Jasper lives alone in a cabin bordering a national forest. With only his old dog, Arlo, for company, he lives quietly, haunted by a tragic accident that took place decades before. When he hears rumors that a white deer has been spotted in the forest—a creature of legend that inspired his father and grandfather—he becomes obsessed with protecting the deer from poachers. As these characters’ fates orbit closer together, none of them is expecting a miracle . . . but that may be exactly what is about to alter their futures forever. My Thoughts: Nicholas Sparks with stunning prose and pulls me totally into whatever story he is weaving. This one is engrossing and pulled me in at the first and never let go. Tanner makes a great hero. Kaitlyn and her children are all great characters too. I enjoyed the romance and the search for Tanner's father. My heart broke for poor Jasper - he has such a difficult, traumatic history. This book evoked many feelings and there is both joy and sorrow here. I highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys romance. Thanks to Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine through Netgalley for an advance copy.

Another great book by the great Nicholas Sparks. Loved it from the very first page to the last!

From the beginning, “Counting Miracles” hit me in the heart the way only Nicholas Sparks can. He weaves together stories of loss, hope, love, and faith so beautifully. The setting—small town, North Carolina—feels vivid and warm. The characters—Tanner (the wandering Army Ranger), Kaitlyn (the single mom with a wounded past), and Jasper (the elderly man haunted by tragedy)—are all drawn with softness and messiness that makes them feel real. Nicholas Sparks doesn’t shy away from grief or guilt. He shows how heartbreak lingers—through Tanner’s search for his father, Kaitlyn holding things together for her kids, Jasper’s quiet mourning—but also how healing, connection, and even small miracles can appear when you least expect them. There are many emotional layers: family secrets, spiritual faith (with religious themes that felt honest, not preachy), and the kind of love that’s not perfect but enduring. The mystery of Tanner’s roots and Jasper’s pursuit of the white deer legend added a sense of deeper meaning beyond the romance. It’s not just about falling in love—it’s about discovering where you belong, even when you’ve spent your life running. Nicholas Sparks’s style is as comforting and poetic as ever. The pacing is steady; the intersecting storylines keep the momentum; moments of tension balance well with moments of quiet reflection. Overall, “Counting Miracles” is a heart-tugging, hopeful novel that reminds you that miracles might not always be grand, but they’re real—and sometimes they’re exactly what we need.

Such a sweet, tender story. People can go through some very hard trials that would make you think it should crush them only to come out stronger. This book is a good reminder of such strength and courage.

4.75 ⭐️ I truly loved this! 🥹 This is the perfect book to read while cozied up by a fire with a soft blanket and hot tea, because the feels are there. There is romance, thrill, suspense, and sadness among other things. The book is most definitely character driven but has solid side plot points that weave the two stories together perfectly. The characters feel so raw and real and I saw the book play out like a movie in my head, which only happens for me when the writing is intriguing and immersive, which it was! I LOVED the Biblical references and how faith is not linear, but as long as you’re here there is always more in store for you. This might get bumped up to a 5 if I keep thinking about the characters! Now I have to go buy more Nicholas Sparks books 😂 Dual POV Flashbacks/Present Day Fade to black romance Military life Biblical references Healing ❤️‍🩹 Self Discovery Trigger Warnings: Fire/Burning Hospitalizations Severe Injury Loss of Spouse Loss of Children S*icide Divorce No spice, but there is kissing + fade to black implication but no overtly explicit content

This book just did heart surgery on me. I am completely wrecked. And it’s personal. Tanner Hughes has spent his life in the military, first the army, then Delta. Though much of his time was in Iraq, he served in other parts of the world, never really settling down. He was raised by his grandparents. Now, with suitcase in hand, having said goodbye to the death of both grandparents, he heads for Asheboro, NC following an ambiguous note left by his grandmother before she died. While he’s in Asheboro searching for answers, his car ends up in the shop due to an unfortunate event. Because the car is a classic, the parts will take weeks to arrive. Yet, also because of this unfortunate situation, he strikes up a relationship with the local Doctor. She’s everything he wants and more. She even gives of her time making house calls on Sundays to those less fortunate. One of her older patients, Jasper, is dear to her and her two kids. He lives alone due to a tragic incident where he lost his wife and 4 children. Because of his obsession with a white deer spotted in the area, he vows he will protect it from poachers. But when an attempt to protect it goes horrifically wrong, the unexpected happens. As the characters’ lives unfold in this heart-clutching story, they realize that miracles do actually happen. Good grief, this man can write!! I don’t think I’ve ever cried this much over a book. There are so many important themes and details Sparks chose to include in the building of this story that just made it personal for me. I have a feeling that many readers will feel the same way. Nicholas Sparks has an authenticity in his characterizations that absolutely grip to the bone. He’s a master weaver of words. I cannot say more without revealing spoilers. YOU NEED TO READ THIS. Thank you thank you Random House, Nicholas Sparks, and NetGalley for the healing I didn’t know I needed in this story. This has been my heartfelt and honest review.

I always start a NS book with the same feelings. That he’s not gonna rip my heart out this time and that they’re just too good to be true stories. And then I finish the book and I’m sobbing like a child and wondering how he can write such stories over and over and make them fresh each time.

Jasper’s story 🥹😭 This was both heartbreaking and heartwarming. Nicholas Sparks never disappoints me. Highly recommend.

The Writing is a Work of Art SUMMARY Tanner Hughes just buried his grandmother and is now headed to a small town in NC. Tanner was raised by his grandparents and followed his grandfather's military footsteps. He spent 15 years in the Army with numerous deployments and has never stopped moving around since. It’s what he knows. Before she died, his Grandmother told Tanner two things. The first was to “Find where you belong and make that place your own.” But Tanner has no desire to settle down anywhere. He is heading to Asheboro, NC, to follow up on the second thing his grandmother told him. It was the name of his father, whom he never knew. After NC, Tanner plans to head to Africa to help with USAID security. Once he gets to Asheboro, he is devastated when a teenage girl backs her mom’s large black Suburban into Tanner’s brand-new 1968 reproduction red Shelby Mustang. When Tanner meets the teenage girl's mother, Kaitlin, a doctor and single mom, they instantly connect. While his car is being repaired, Tanner begins a futile search for his father and hopes to spend some time with Kaitlin. REVIEW You just can’t loose with a Nicolas Sparks book. He is known for romance and heartbreak and COUNTING MIRACLES is no different. It’s a moving modern love story between a woman with deep roots in her small town and a man who has no desire to settle down in one place. (Tanner is just like the Jack Reacher character in that regard.) But it’s also a story about Tanner’s search for a father who may have never known he existed. All the characters are delightfully well-developed and relatable. From Tanner and Kaitlen to her children, 16-year-old Casey and 9-year-old Mitch, you will become attached to them all. Even Jasper, the old man who is teaching Mitch to carve, is quite the memorable character with his own story to tell. The plot is poignant, and the writing is a work of art that will resonate well with many readers. Thanks to Netgalley for an advance reading copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Publisher Random House Publishing Group-Ballantine Published September 24, 2024 Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

While I have watched a few of Nicholas Sparks’ movie adaptations, this is the first Nicholas Sparks book I have read and I now understand why so many of his books gets turned into movies. A fresh and powerful message about family, old and new, Counting Miracles was a joy to read that had me tearing up at the end. I am so grateful and honored to have been given the opportunity to read an advanced copy of work from one of the best romance authors of our time. Thank you to the publisher and NetGalley as well!

Counting Miracles by Nicholas Sparks is nothing short of breathtaking. If I could give this book 6 stars, I would in a heartbeat! From the Note From The Author page, I was completely captivated and couldn’t put it down—I devoured it in one day. Sparks’ writing is, as always, exquisite. I can truly say that each book just keeps getting better and better. Reading his books as a teenager and now as an adult and still fall in love and get emotional, is truly full circle! His ability to weave raw emotion into every scene is true talent. The characters felt so real, their struggles were very very relatable, and their triumphs were so inspiring and will bring tears to your eyes. This story is such a beautiful reminder of the resilience of the human spirit and the unexpected blessings that can change our lives. That no matter how far you stray from God he is always working miracles behind the scenes.

My favorite book of 2024. What a BEAUTIFUL story. Centered around the story of Job— this is written like a Charles Martin novel and is flooded with scripture. I want to read it again!!!

Back to another Grisham. This features Jack Brigance who apparently was the lawyer in Grishams first novel. I enjoyed the character of Brigance and those around him. He defends a young boy who killed the thuggish policeman living with his mother and sister. A statute change meant that in two States you can be convicted of the murder in first degree of a policeman even if they are not on duty. Jack covers another civil case as well. He is ‘persuaded’ by a Judge to represent the boy. Bringing the hatred of the town on him as well as a savage beating. The story is fast paced and I found it difficult to put down. Now I have finished I move onto the latest Jack Reacher that I have been saving.

I haven’t read a John Grisham novel in over a decade. I don’t have anything against the guy. In fact, at one point, I read a bunch of his novels, starting with “The Firm”. It was okay. I really liked “The Client” and “The Runaway Jury”, but I didn’t really like “The Chamber”. I thought “A Painted House” was great. I thoroughly enjoyed his nonfiction work “The Innocent Man”. My favorite novel of his, though, was “A Time to Kill”. It should be noted that every one of these books (with the exception of “The Innocent Man”) was made into a movie. Some were actually decent. Of course, I saw them all, usually after reading the book. I distinctly remember liking the film adaptation of “A Time to Kill”, starring Matthew McConaughey, Samuel L. Jackson, and Sandra Bullock. Was it better than the book? I honestly can’t recall, it’s been so long since I read it. (The book was published in 1989.) Here’s the point, assuming I have one: I haven’t read a Grisham novel in a very long time. I kind of stopped reading Grisham, for no good reason, really. I just found other things to read. So, recently I picked up “A Time For Mercy”, published in 2020. It is a sequel, of sorts, to “A Time to Kill”. The main character, attorney Jake Brigance, reluctantly takes on a case involving the shooting of a police officer. He doesn’t want the case, and no good defense attorney would, for one main reason: In Mississippi, in 1990 (when the novel takes place) shooting a cop is virtually an automatic death sentence. The state had some of the most stringent laws regarding violence toward police. (We won’t talk about how NOT stringent the laws were regarding violence BY the police. That’s an entirely different subject…) The shooter was a 16-year-old living in the police officer’s house. The boy named Drew Gamble admitted to shooting the officer. Practically catatonic when the first responders arrive, Drew willingly goes to jail, but there is clearly something not right about the boy. His mother and sister (who also live in the house) share a heart-rending, disgusting story of a highly abusive—-verbally and physically—-man who, despite being a highly decorated police officer and well-liked in the community, was a mean and vicious drunk. Beatings were regular occurrences. Jake doesn’t want the case because he has good standing within the community. He’s actually friends with most, if not all, the local police officers. All of that will more than likely change when the people of Ford County find out he is defending the cop-killer. Unfortunately, he also knows that he may be the only attorney in the state who could provide the best defense for this kid. “A Time For Mercy” is courtroom drama at its absolute best, mainly because the drama doesn’t confine itself to just the courtroom. Grisham’s knowledge and experience about what goes into a court case in Mississippi in the early-1990s makes for an incredibly believable novel, populated with very real people. All of the characters—-even the ones you aren’t supposed to like—-are sympathetic. It’s hard not to compare Grisham’s defense attorney with another well-known DA, Michael Connelly’s “Lincoln Lawyer”, Mickey Haller. They couldn’t be more different in terms of personality and likability (Jake is a strong family man with good Christian values. Mickey sucks at adulting in almost every way, except in the courtroom.), but both are excellent lawyers. (Also interesting bit of trivia: both characters have been played by Matthew McConaghey in films.) I think it’s about time I start reading more Grisham.

The law works in mysterious ways - at least in small-town Mississippi courtrooms in 1990. And they're laid out here for all to read and enjoy as local attorney Jake Brigance takes on two very different high-stakes cases. One could earn a ton of money for his struggling practice; the other could get him killed. The golden goose case pits Jake against a giant railroad company he alleges was negligent in keeping crossing lights in good repair. The result was a horrible accident that happened - or so Jake needs to prove - because the lights weren't working. Needless to say, the railroad attorneys insist they were working just fine. As the book begins, it looks as if the railroad may be willing to offer a substantial cash settlement with Jake's client - thus allowing Jake to pay his bills as well as those he's racking up defending the client in his other case - one he got [ahem!] railroaded into taking on by the local judge. It is that case that gets the lion's share of attention. A 16-year-old boy has been charged with the cold-blooded murder of his mother's boyfriend. The case is complicated by the fact that the dead guy was a local deputy sheriff - albeit one with a nasty temper and a penchant for getting drunk. Under state law, the boy can and will be tried as an adult; many, if not most, of the town's residents (and most certainly the victim's family and his fellow officers) are fervent in their belief that he deserves the death penalty. The more Jake learns, though, the more he believes the charges against his young client aren't warranted. Readers, of course, learn the details of what really happened as well as how Jake and his legal cronies are working out their courtroom strategy. Suffice it to say it's a real treat to follow along - or at least it was for me. I have to say I wasn't totally thrilled with the way things turned out even though it probably was for the best, but I'm encouraged that there is plenty of fodder for the next book in this terrific series (this is the third). Many thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review it.

Can't go wrong with a Jake Brigance novel by John Grisham! A Time For Mercy is the 3rd book in the series and it's an excellent read! I highly recommend the audiobook!

It’s been a while since I last read a John Grisham book, but I thoroughly enjoyed picking up this one. I particularly liked A Time to Kill and it was great to revisit those characters. The compelling court case in the story, once again handled brilliantly by Jake, made it a delightful read. If you enjoyed the first two books in the series, you’ll definitely love this one. I also noticed there’s a fourth book that I’ll need to read soon.

I was hooked on courtroom dramas early, from reading To Kill a Mocking Bird (a school project requirement which I kicked and moaned about but ended up entranced by) and watching the film 12 Angry Men (made in the year I was born) persuaded to do so by my dad and still one of my favourite films. Though I’ve found some of Grisham’s output patchy I do believe he’s written some of the best courtroom scenes I’ve come across since. Here he’s back with a third episode featuring lawyer Jake Brigance, following up A Time to Kill and Sycamore Row. Jake is based in a small town in Mississippi and when a fourteen year old boy, Drew Gamble, shoots and kills his mother’s bullying and abusive partner it seems that he’s doomed to take a long walk to a short drop (actually it’s a gas chamber at this point in the state’s history, but the result is pretty much the same). The death penalty for a minor? No problem here. But of course there’s much more to the case: there are mitigating circumstances and some actions are open to interpretation in terms of timing and motivation. However, will any of this be enough to save the boy? Well, one complicating factor is that the man he killed was a law officer – that’s guaranteed to go down badly with the jury in this Bible Belt town. There are other complications too, mainly stemming from the fact that Jake is struggling for money. He hasn’t got too many other cases on his books and his biggest potential money earner, his banker, has just hit a major problem. He’s invested big in the case and he’s about to see it all disappear down the drain. With a measly $1000 payment for all of his efforts on Dew’s case it’s possible he could go bankrupt before the trial is over. I loved the everything about this one: the characters are terrific, the story is believable and the legal arguments complex but persuasive. And Jake’s oratory at key moments in the trial is just brilliant. I listened to an audio version of this book read superbly by American actor Michael Beck. Perfect!

It's 5 years after the Carl Lee Hailey trial brought Jake Brigance to prominence in 'A Time to Kill.' Now Jake is back and taking on a case that proves equally, and costly, to defend. Drew Gamble is a 15-year-old who finds his mother lying dead in the living room of the home belonging to her boyfriend, Deputy Stuart Kofer. His mother, Josie, has had a strenuous relationship with Stu, who constantly beat her and her kids, Drew and Kiera, her 14-year-old daughter. But Josie has had a life of hard rocks, never able to support herself, five-and-dime jobs, and no place to live. Shacking up with a deputy in the city of Clanton, Mississippi seemed like a good thing if it meant having a roof over their heads. All she had to do was keep wearing tight-fitting jeans and giving Stuart sex whenever he wanted it. Until it was not enough. Believing Stuart would now kill his sister and him; Drew does the unimaginable. He kills Deputy Stuart Kofer with his own gun, in his own home, and while he was passed out, lying drunk on his own bed. Justifiable homicide? Capital murder? The electric chair? Life imprisonment? Nothing is off the table and Judge Noose has no one who wants the case. Especially a capital murder case the county will only pay chicken-feed wages to the lawyer facing long hours of work on a case that is sure to bring down the townsfolk against him. Good luck with finding a reasonable jury and even more luck receiving a change of venue from Judge Noose. After being strong-armed into defending Drew Gamble, Jake's passion and desire to be seen as a successful trial lawyer kick in. He assembles his team to put together a defense of young Drew in hopes of keeping him out of prison and going to the electric chair. But the evidence against young Drew is overwhelming. The prosecution has the gun in evidence, the boy's confession, along with his fingerprints. Not to forget how the town of Clanton is in an uproar over Jake Brigance handling the defense. His successful win 5 years earlier over the Carl Lee Hailey trial did not win him points with the city white folk, who do not want to see a young boy off the hook from murdering a popular city deputy. Will Jake be able to defend his young client and keep him out of prison and the electric chair. Will he get paid for his work, which is a concern considering his mounting debt and struggling law practice. With time running out, Jake and his team are going to need a lot more than a good defense. They are going to need mercy. I've got to catch up on the Jake Brigance series. I've read 'A Time to Kill,' but missed 'Sycamore Row' and the 4th book in his series. I loved the movie and would like to see Matthew McCaughey and the rest of the cast return to their roles. They were so convincing. Naturally, the author's tongue and cheek writing keep you turning the pages. John Grisham is a gifted writer, and I am certain you will enjoy this book as much as I have, if not more. Keep on reading!

"I was thrilled to see that this latest Grisham was a legal thriller. Grisham is a talented writer across the board, but his legal tales are my favorite. And this latest may well be the best of them! The plot is gripping and the execution is simply fantastic. The behind the scenes machination of a trial are fascinating. As is the actual trial. Grisham's own background as a lawyer adds so much to his books. Jake is a great lead and the supporting cast brings back supporting characters from the previous two books. Time and place are brought to life with detailed descriptions. And then there's the loaded question - is murder ever justified? I chose to listen to A Time for Mercy. The reader was Michael Beck and his narration was perfect for this title. He has created many Southern accents/drawls for the myriad cast of players. Each is just a little bit different and it's easy to know who is speaking. He also does the female/child voices very well. His interpretation of the book is simply wonderful. Beck uses his voice to wonderful effect, capturing the emotions of the characters and the action of the plot. I've said it before and I'll say it again - I become so much more immersed in a story by listening. Five stars plus for this one! I hope we see more of Jake.

John Grisham never disappoints when he writes from the court room. Everyone’s favorite lawyer Jake Brigance returns with a heart breaking story. Coming off of a big win that not everyone agreed with Brigance is looking forward to not having a bullseye on his back. It this is short lived when he is chosen to defend a young boy who has killed a crooked cop. This book will have you hooked from page one and it is heart breaking. Jake has been the best lawyer since 1989 and I was glad to read another story based on him. Hope Grisham continues to allow us to follow Jakes cases! A TIME FOR MERCY is a must read this October

Grisham is a master storyteller. I love that Jake and all his family and friends are back. This one will make a great movie, too.

I absolutely love Grisham’s books, and Jake Brigance is a complex, engaging character who has endured since “A Time to Kill.” Talking about white people voting: “Lazy? My people vote like hell...they’re tireless, relentless voters. The vote early, often, all day long, late, absentee, with real ballots, stuffed ballots, fake ballots. They vote dead people, crazy people, underage people, convicted felons who have no right to vote.” Sound familiar? What about”We treasure life and can all agree that it is wrong to kill...Why do so many white people love the death penalty?” As always, this Grisham book, although set in 1990, is once again so current. Bravo.

My goodness, can John Grisham write a good book! I absolutely loved "A Time to Kill" and "Sycamore Row". I assumed this book would be great as well. And I was right, because this book is fantastic! That being said, this is my least favorite book in the trilogy, despite it getting a near perfect rating, but I'll explain that in a few paragraphs. This book is different because it doesn't really deal with race relations like the first two books did. However, the feeling of anger and visceral reaction that this book elicits from the audience is just as palpable. The whole discussion of the Death Penalty is just so well demonstrated. The book doesn't have any superfluous fluff, even though it has a case that I thought at the beginning would be just filler. The first two books were almost exclusively about one case, while this book is primarily about one case, but has another one hiding in the background. What this book does so well is make me, someone who is pro-law enforcement and pro-death penalty actively root against both in this book. Very impressive for an author to make me root against my morals. This book also has some really tender moments between the characters that I loved, and a wonderful pro-life message. The circumstances behind the conception of one character are certainly horrible, and yet Grisham lays out a compelling case for life without actually arguing it. Some of the characters argue it, but Grisham simply lets the story unfold, and it naturally presents this pro-life angle that I really liked, especially since it dovetails nicely with the whole death penalty discussion. As always, the laws and procedures of courtrooms frustrate me. The whole point is to get context and information, and yet they are constantly limiting it in some contest to see who can get the most objections and least out of the witnesses. My only problem really with the book comes to its ending. I thought that the endings for books one and two were masterful. Book two's ending was a little frustrating, but still masterful. Here, I can't really explain why I dislike it without going into spoilers, but lets just say I don't like the way Grisham resolves everything.... That being said, overall this is a top-notch novel. I cannot wait to read more John Grisham books in the future (next on my shelf is "The Runaway Jury"). But for now, I give "A Time for Mercy" a 9.5 out of 10!

J. D. Robb (pseudonym for Nora Roberts) infuses murder, suspense, and drama in Encore in Death , a well-written futuristic police procedural set in New York City featuring Lieutenant Eve Dallas with the NYC police department and set around 2061. Celebrity couple Eliza Lane and Brant Fitzhugh throw a party on the night before Brant is scheduled to leave for New Zealand. He is producing and starring in a movie being filmed there while Eliza is set for the role of a lifetime on Broadway. Eve Dallas arrives after Brant toasted Eliza, fell to the floor, and died. The drink that killed him was originally intended for Eliza. Which of them was the target? With over 200 guests, staff, and servers, it’s not going to be easy to identify the killer. Time spent with Eve, Delia (Eve’s partner), Roarke (Eve’s husband), and Eve’s colleagues is always entertaining. The main characters are compelling and three-dimensional. Eve’s need to serve and protect comes through in every book, but the underlying impetus for this is best understood by reading this series in order. As always, the interactions between Eve and Roarke are enjoyable and bring a different facet of Eve’s personality to light. Several of the recurring police characters play significant roles in this book, and readers get to see a bit of their private lives. I also enjoyed seeing Delia take on more responsibility in this story line. The prose is well-written and engaging. The plot is thought-provoking and tragic. While this book has some action, it is mostly a police procedural. Robb usually manages to weave humor in her novels, providing some much needed levity to offset some of the more serious and grim aspects of the story. The humor manages to bring out Eve’s personality. Everything from phrases she doesn’t understand, to her reactions to the loud clothing worn by her colleagues and to a candy thief make her more relatable. The author brings strong characters, great plots, wonderful relationships, and excellent pacing to the series. Woven through the novel are threads of caring for others, friendship, relationships, ego, glamour, careers, leadership, and trust. Overall, this novel was a twisty tale with great characterization that kept me turning the pages. If you enjoy engaging near-future police procedurals, then I recommend this series. This is the fifty-sixth book in the In Death Eve Dallas series and I have read all of them up to this point. I can’t wait to read the next book in the series. St. Martin’s Press and J.D. Robb provided a digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own and are not biased in any way. Publication date was February 7, 2023. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine. ---------------------------------------- My 4.88 rounded to 5 stars review is coming soon.

This is book 56 in the in Death series and it remains good which is pretty amazing given how long it has been out. This one wasn’t the best in the series in my opinion but I did still enjoy it. I think my favorite part was Roarke giving the armor to Dallas’ squad for an anniversary present. This was the moment when they truly fit. This one took longer to get into than most. Dallas is called to the murder of an actor at a party that he and his wife had thrown for their friends. The mystery was ok, but wasn’t the twistiest I had seen. I did like the connections to the long past mystery, it was interesting. Overall I gave this one 4.5 stars which I rounded up because I do love the characters and this series overall so much.

I really liked this one!! At a big, exclusive party, someone is poisoned. Its cyanide. Roarke outdoes himself with his gift to Eve on their anniversary!! I always think to myself ‘wow, time surely moves slowly in their universe!’ Glad of it!!

I enjoyed this book so much! JD Robb/Nora Roberts always produces a readable, interesting book. The last 2 JD Robb books, while addressing important issues, were really too much for me to handle due to subject matter. I'm so happy that she has returned to a less traumatic murder, at least for the reader. Our favorite characters progress a bit in their lives; their interactions are amusing and endearing. The victim in this book is a well-loved actor who is poisoned at a party and there are a number of suspects. The story read well, there are enough twists and turns to keep things interesting and of course there are Dallas, Rourke and Peabody. I am just so relieved that this book was fun and terrific.

Brant Fitzhugh has fallen to his death, and quite naturally, his widow is traumatized. She is certain he was murdered but cannot imagine why. Detective Eve Dallas is on the case. Was he the intended victim, or was his wife Eliza the actual target? Cyanide poisoning in a glass of champagne was the cause of death. Brant was well-liked. His death makes absolutely no sense. He was happily married. Both Brant and Eliza are in the entertainment business. With the harmony in their marriage, their schedules were usually in sync. However, Brant has a project that will take him away to New Zealand for six months. Eliza will be playing a role in a revival of successful play on Broadway so she cannot travel with Brant. In the case of the In Death series, Nora Roberts has written it under her pseudonym, J. D. Robb. I just love her books and have read every single book in this series, including the two that follow, Payback in Death and Random in Death . Everything about this book is wonderful. Whether the drama of discovering who murdered Brant, to Eve and husband's Roarke's amazing relationship, from Eve's relationship with her coworkers, most notably, Peabody, this book packs a wallop. Then I love Eve's sense of humor, and her level of snark, and how she often wonders aloud why certain phrases are what they are - like why is a driveway called a driveway. With a delightful mystery, great characters, solid intrigue and a conclusion that one might not expect, this book definitely rated a solid five stars. Many thanks to St. Martin's Press and to NetGalley for this ARC for review. This is my honest opinion.

All caught up! so grateful because I can take a break!

Reading a new In Death story is like coming home, like wrapping myself in a soft warm blanket and sinking into its comfort. Sure, I first came to these stories for the mysteries, and I still thoroughly enjoy the clever plots, the imaginative crimes and motives, and the riveting conclusions. But the characters—Eve, Roarke, Peabody, McNab, etc—and the interactions between them appeal to me at least as much as those crimes and investigations. Eve questioning common sayings never fails to amuse me just as I always have to concede she actually has a point. We do say a lot of weird things without ever questioning them (unless our name is Eve Dallas 😊). And, as always, Robb delivered. The crime was imaginative and the investigation riveting. The cast of secondary characters was colourful and fascinating. If I missed anything in this story, it was an update on the house Peabody and McNab are renovating seen through Eve’s eyes. I also wouldn’t have minded Mavis and Leonardo making an appearance in this story. But apart from that, I just lost myself in this tale. The pages almost turned themselves and I found it next to impossible to put the book down. 56 books in, I’m still not getting bored with this series and I have a hard time imagining I ever will. In fact, the only other thing I want to add here is: is it September yet? (view spoiler)

56 books...who would've ever believed that a series could run that long? Thing is, I have enjoyed each and every one. Some more than others, but that doesn't matter. What matters is JD Robb/Nora Roberts can write! She has created characters that I love dearly & look forward to checking in with. Even better, she remains true to these characters, doesn't fold under the pressure of people who want "more this, more that, she should have a baby bullsh*t". For that, I am extremely grateful. There have been other series, with strong, interesting female leads, that other authors have just ruined by turning them into whiny, weak, weepy, miserable women who sleep with anyone and everyone because "that's what women do" or "that's what's expected of them" or whatever lame excuse they come up with, and it's complete and utter rubbish! Book 57 comes out in September, and I cannot wait!

While this is typical Eve Dallas - catch a high profile case, investigate thoroughly, step on lots of toes, then throw in sides of Roarke, Peabody, and Co - the drama of the movie stars was different enough and so entertaining it was worth bumping to the top of my book pile.

When a mega vid star dies of cyanide in the middle of a party by sipping the drink of his mega Broadway star wife, Eve is called in to unravel the clues and bring the murderer to justice. Only, most of the suspects are actors who lie for a living. Not being sure who the intended victim was, Eve and her team have to explore all the angles. Brant Fitzhugh didn't have enemies. Even his ex-wife loved him. Eliza Lake, however, wasn't that nice. She was demanding, a micromanager, and a perfectionist. She had an obsessed fan and a number of bitter rivals. And the drink was made for her. I enjoyed this story very much. I liked the way the police tracked down the evidence to find the real culprit. I love the way Eve interacts with her team of dedicated homicide detectives. Her relationship with Peabody is growing to be more of a relationship between equals with each book. I also love seeing Eve's relationship with Roarke develop as the series progresses.

Encore in Death by J.D.Robb is the 56th book in the In Death series. A party held by celebrity couple Eliza Lane and Brabt Fitzhugh sees Brant die after toasting his wife with a champagne cocktail laced with cyanide. Another brilliant book in the series. Eve and Roarke's relationship continues to grow and Peabody's decorating plans develop further. I love catching up with all the characters and this book sees Roarke Industries presenting the homicide squad with lightweight protective garments to aid in their safety. The candy thief again makes a particularly sneaky strike. A superb mystery expertly solved by Eve and her team.

Once again, the author has woven the world of Dallas and Roarke with a mystery that keeps you guessing and you might get it right, but you might not! I often have it figured out, but I got tripped by a red herring that I thought the author was leading you away from! I love the witty banter, the interpersonal relationships and the well wrapped mystery that is always presented in these books. The narration is so freaking fabulous that you forget that you are listening to a book instead of standing amongst the characters listening to them carry on a conversation. I absolutely love this series and it remains my number one favorite must listen series of all time!

The most selfish reason for Murder, but that is all I am going to say about the killer. I really want this series to become a TV show; if done right, it should be the best!

I loved this book in the series. I don't think there's been one I absolutely didn't like, some I like more than others, but this one was good. The prose is well-written and engaging. The plot is unpredictable and thought-provoking. This book has less action than others; it is mostly a police procedural. Robb always manages to weave some humor in her novels, providing needed levity to offset some of the more serious aspects of the story. The humor manages to bring out Eve’s personality and her interpersonal relationships, in this installment mostly between her and Peabody or Roake. Her humor and her relationship interactions have made a more fully fleshed out character and much more relatable. The author brings strong characters, great plots, wonderful relationships, and excellent pacing to the series. Sometimes, there is no suspense on who is guilty; she lays it out from the beginning. Other times, it's a "who-done-it", like this one. This was one time I got fooled. I thought I knew who it was, not the one handed on a platter, but someone in the background. So I got fooled! I can never understand the criticism of this series, particularly addressing Eve's growth. I've seen complaints that there wasn't enough fighting between Eve and Roarke. Why? They have matured and grown in their relationship and mostly, usually, have an understanding of each other. No marriage would survive if they had knockdown drag-outs three years plus into it. The other biggest complaint I've seen is not enough of the supporting characters. How many people see all of their acquaintances and friends in one weeks time? This took place in less than a week! You can't bring in every single character to every single book. Overall, I love this series, and I recommend it all the time. This is the 56th book in the In Death Eve Dallas series, and I have read all of them (most several times). I can’t wait to read the next book in the series.

OMG! Returning back to Three Pines feel like going back to your hometown for holiday season! You’re not only greeted by Chief Inspector Armand Gamache or his partners in crime Jean Guy Buovoir ( also son-in-law) and Isabella Lacoste.You’ll be also welcomed by villagers including bookstore owners Claire, Myrna, bistro managers Gabe and Oliver, unconventional poet Ruth! They seem like your old time friends! At least I feel like they’re part of my fictional close circle friends after spending so much time with them at the previous books. I wish to go that fictional town, chatting with fellow villagers, sitting in front of fire, nursing my cognac as the snow slowly falls outside. Best way to escape from reality! But instead of that, I’m sitting on my couch, wearing floral pajamas, burying my head into my hard copy but at least the book takes me anywhere I want as long as I feed my highly creative imagination! I think this book was my favorite one of the series! Because it’s bold, though provoking, complex, moving, soul crushing, powerful, unconventional! Because a visiting statistician’s thoughts about euthanasia can threaten the well being of the community by ethically and morally questioning their beliefs. When Chief Inspector is requested to provide security of statistician lecturer Abigail Robinson, it seemed like an awkward request to be asked to a person who was the head of homicide for the Surete de Quebec. Abigail plans to give her lecture at a nearby university. Probably there will be very small attendance. ( who wants to listen about statistic in the death of winter, instead of scrolling through Netflix menu, lying on the couch, drinking hot chocolate) Gamache tries to have the lecture canceled which is denied by authorities. Abigail Robinson advocates euthanasia on the elderly and disabled people and during her lecture shots are fired and traumatic incidents take place. Divided groups and cultures turn against each other and madness start to intact the entire village like an epidemic. The book reflects the villagers’ adjusting in new normal life after COVID- 19 and now they’re ideologically infected and their twisted perspectives start to affect the village’s unity like growing wild fire! This is quiet literature feast! As a big fan of series, I highly recommend this book! This is so exceptional and one of my favorite books of the year!

I honestly do not know how Louise Penny keeps writing captivating, imaginative installments to this series after all of these years. This is an achingly beautiful book about so much more than the central mystery. Her novels are also about humanity, the choices we make, and the reasons behind those choices. Although Armand Gamache, his son-in-law and second-hand man Jean-Guy Bouvoir and Isabelle Lacoste have a potential riot to contain and a murder to solve. But threaded through all of that are situations that cause the characters and the reader to pause and take account. How much are we caught up in "The Madness of Crowds"? How much do we allow statistics to persuade us toward certain beliefs? These and many other things are posed for pondering. And with this book we are back in the beloved Three Pines, back at the Bistro, back with the familiar characters and their various quirks. This series is like a comfortable blanket, yet one that doesn't allow me to get too comfortable and helps me to examine my values and beliefs while in the company of old friends. As per usual, I listened to this book as an audiobook and that is the only way I prefer to experience this series because the narrator, Robert Bathurst, is stellar.

So I actually got from the library the book that is referred to in Penny’s title and repeatedly referred to throughout her book, Charles Mackay’s Extraordinary Personal Delusions and the Madness of Crowds (1841). Penny has a way of urging you to go down alleys and backstreets of research with her. You don’t have to do this to appreciate the book, but if you are aware of this Mackay book it just might be helpful in understanding her novel, her purposes in writing it, and just maybe, the world we are living in. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extraor... It’s a study of how crazy ideas can be advanced through a kind of mass hysteria. Today we advance such ideas through social media, another kind of crowd, though actual crowds can also be whipped up to a frenzy, getting them to take sometimes violent action, as we have seen in many ways today. From Wikipedia: “The subjects of Mackay's debunking include alchemy, crusades, duels, economic bubbles, fortune-telling, haunted houses, the Drummer of Tedworth, the influence of politics and religion on the shapes of beards and hair, magnetisers (influence of imagination in curing disease), murder through poisoning, prophecies, popular admiration of great thieves, popular follies of great cities, and relics.” People behave delusionally usually when they are afraid. Louise Penny was a journalist before she was a novelist and I always prefer my mysteries with at least one foot firmly planted in the real world. I don’t just mean the world of crime, as one might expect, but in the global present. Noir usually grapples with the economic struggles of ordinary, working class people. Agatha Christie, as good as she was at mysteries, was decidedly on the side of escapism, of entertainment. And so, it seemed, was Louise Penny, early on, creating her little idyllic fantasy Quebecois village with Olivier and Gabri’s wonderful bistro. Not that I mind Christie, and not that I still wouldn’t want to live in Three Pines, with the cranky comic relief of Ruth and her duck. And the warmth of Inspector Armand Gamache, asserting that goodness will prevail. But as the series proceeds, things get darker, we see that Three Pines is not a haven from the world outside. Still, family matters, community matters, beauty matters. Love is important in combatting cruelty and hate. And that Penny has fused her interest in journalism and fiction here in ways I admire. In The Madness of Crowds Penny takes full-on the frightening world we live in with the sword of all the remaining goodness she can find (and I am wondering if her move in the more political direction is also in part influenced by her recently co-writing a political thriller with Hillary Clinton?). We begin at a small university (we just seemed to have discovered) outside Three Pines, where the chancellor has invited a controversial mathematician, Abigail Robinson, who can show us statistics that prove that we can best survive economically and socially as a human race if we enact mandatory euthanasia for the old and infirm, and if we enforce the abortion of all fetuses that seem to indicate they will be born with disabilities, such as those with Down Syndrome. The argument is that in a world of diminishing resources, we just can’t save everyone, so let’s kill off the weak and disabled. If this seems far-fetched to you, let me remind you that such ideas are still being debated and have been enacted in various ways. The issue here is eugenics. And mass murder. Hitler and his henchmen murdered all sorts of people he didn’t want to live with. So did Stalin. And when we make moral choices that exclude others, we follow Robinson. Which lives matter? The time of the novel is the near future when this particular pandemic seems to be over, but about which we are still living in shock. It’s still a dystopian world. People are afraid. We can see climate change, massive refugee problems, and so when Isabel Robinson comes to speak of her ideas for murder, we expect “mad” crowds, incited to violence from all possible directions. Some people want to stop her, and some people want to advance her ideas. Gamache begs the chancellor to cancel the speech on the grounds of public safety concerns, and sure enough, someone brings a gun to the talk and hysteria happens. The gun goes off, yes. As an academic, the free speech/hate speech discussion is by now an old one to me, so I wasn’t initially enthralled to read about it, but I am well aware that it is still a very relevant concern; do we invite Q-Anon shock jock liars to campus to “debate” them, inciting people on all sides of the issues to violence? And so on and on. Nursing homes were hit hard by Covid-19, and many died in record numbers, so Penny dedicates the novel to front-line workers; she is taking the side of reasoned goodness, of empathy, as always. And Dr. Robinson will remind us of many viral whackjob politicians and scholars and social media nuts. She reminds me of mathematician Charles Murray (The Bell Curve) and his statistical claim that blacks are genetically inferior to whites: https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politi... But Penny has in mind specifically a Canadian scientist, Ewen Cameron/ whom she brings into her story, a guy who performed mind-control experiments on patients: https://www.washingtonpost.com/archiv... As to the resolution of the murder of a woman who is a friend and personal assistant to Isabel Robinson, we do not know whodunnit until the very end, but the resolution is complicated and ultimately satisfying. One suspect is another Three Pines visitor, a Nobel peace prize nominee, a Sudanese hero, Haniya Daoud, a person whose views many would admire more than the ideas of Robinson, though the latter on the surface seems to be personally more likable. Polls said that people liked Bush more than Gore, found him more likable. Millions prefer the personality of Trump to Hillary Clinton's. I very much like this book, which weaves in so many layers of ideas. Mikhail Bakhtin thought that the best of novels functioned as a kind of cultural forum, and I count this as one of those novels that takes on important social issues. It's not warm and cuddly Three Pines, it's her darkest book, but I like it a lot. I took a quick look at some three star reviews of this book, and some folks seem to be disappointed that she writes about politics.“Shut up and sing!” some folks screamed at The Dixie Chicks for taking stands on stage. I say: You go, Louise. Keep fighting the good fight.

Louise Penny’s long running series is, at its core, an ongoing meditation on the nature of guilt,conscience, redemption and compassion.The series is set in the picturesque village of Three Pines and is inhabited by an eclectic group of residents. The protagonist is Chief Inspector Armand Gamache.While Gamache and his team of investigators focus on their tasks, the residents form a background chorus, adding their voices to a discussion of society and morality.This seventeenth installment of the series adds new characters to the chorus and incorporates contemporary events, blending familiar themes with current dilemmas. The entire Gamache family has returned to Three Pines after we last encountered them during a visit to Paris.The time is set sometime in the near future when the pandemic has receded although the lingering psychological effects remain.Gamache has to oversee security arrangements for a lecture by a controversial professor of statistics, Abigail Robinson.She advocates euthanasia of the weak and infirm as a path forward to conserve resources and guard against future pandemics.Buttressed by her statistical analysis, she has popularized her position by callously perverting Julian of Norwich’s words of hope.Buttons proclaiming “ All Will Be Well” have served as a clarion call for many whose fears and prejudices have been exacerbated by the recent health crisis.Professor Robinson’s lecture is right before New Year and attendance at the event exceeds expectations.Supporters and opponents of the professor’s views are vocal and querulous.An incident at the lecture nearly results in disaster but is averted.However, at a New Years Eve celebration a murder occurs.Gamache and his team investigate amidst escalating emotions, conflicts and doubts. This novel is the most allegorical of Louise Penny’s work.Throughout the series an actual murder is incidental to the plot, serving only as a springboard to examine morality on personal and societal levels.Each member of Gamache’s team as well as the familiar village residents has a different skill set and emotional viewpoint, adding a palette of opinions to their social discourse.In addition to Professor Robinson there is another new visitor to Three Pines.Haniya Daoud is a twenty three year old Sudanese woman who is a candidate for the Nobel Prize.These women’s viewpoints add an additional set of divergent opinions to the debate. The author cleverly links the fear of the pandemic’s contagion to the notion that the same malaise can infect a society’s spiritual and social well being.The passions aroused by both dynamics create the tension that builds throughout the plot.There are times when the dialogue and momentum of the plot may seem repetitive.However, in a Louise Penny novel this shortcoming is a minor quibble.The genius of her novels lies in her depiction of the Three Pines community as an antidote to the dark passions unleashed in her books.The author seems to suggest that the comfort of a warm and embracing community is a buffer against the bad things we might encounter.Her creation of Three Pines is an almost utopian vision that welcomes us and has us wistfully longing to return to this village that enriches both the body and the spirit.

The Madness of Crowds is the seventeenth instalment in the brilliant Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. While the residents of the remote Québec village of Three Pines take advantage of the deep snow to ski and toboggan, to drink hot chocolate in the bistro and share meals together, the Chief Inspector and Head of the Homicide Department at Sûreté du Québec, finds his relaxing holiday with his family interrupted by a simple yet strange request. Gamache is befuddled to be asked to provide oversight and security for a lecture to be presented by a controversial visiting statistician Professor Abigail Robinson. To many, she appears innocuous and ordinary but her agenda is anything but, and once Armand carries out some research and learns more about her, he approaches the university to plead with them to cancel her appearance. Robinson had previously been hired by the Canadian government to examine the economic and social impact of COVID-19 on the populace and had come to the conclusion that the health care system and economy would fare much better if the elderly and vulnerable were euthanised therefore leaving overwhelmed resources and infrastructure to those who are stronger. Thankfully, the government renounced her findings and suggestions as inhumane, but her dangerous and asinine opinions have since spoken to a sector of the population in a highly sinister manner with many calling for her proposals to be enacted. It would be quite the understatement to say that empathetic Gamache was sickened by what he read about her and now fully comprehends exactly why he has been assigned the job. Her thesis actively promotes eugenics and threatens Gamache's sense of justice and his family. Much to Gamache’s surprise, there's is a large turnout despite the frigid conditions outside and people travel from far and wide to see Robinson talk. There is friction between attendees and tempers begin to fray leading to pandemonium. Discussions become debates, debates become arguments, which turn into fights. As sides are declared, a madness takes hold. Abigail Robinson promises that, if they follow her, ça va bien aller. All will be well. But not, Gamache and his team know, for everyone. An assassin takes aim and fires a bullet at Robinson yet everyone manages to somehow remain uninjured including the professor thanks in no small part to Gamache’s quick thinking. However, during New Year’s celebrations at the Auberge in Three Pines, a murder takes place, and it falls to Armand Gamache, his second-in-command Jean-Guy Beauvoir and their team to investigate the heinous crime. This is a riveting, compulsive and utterly absorbing read which explores thought-provoking social issues as well as the ubiquitous nature of disinformation and propaganda. It holds a mirror up to the current prevalence of phenomena such as xenophobia and ruminates upon the disturbing concept on eugenics. Penny is one of my favourite crime writers of all time as she provides readers with everything required for a scintillating, entertaining and intriguing thriller. She not only brings the mystery, palpable tension, drama, twists, misdirection and exciting thrills but also plenty of food for thought, intelligent dialogue and characters who come alive on the page regardless of whether they are protagonists or antagonists. If you enjoy crime fiction that is more than simply cheap thrills and non-stop action, then I guarantee you'll not be disappointed. I cannot recommend this highly enough.

Penny Perfection. I picked up the latest book in the Inspector Gamache series from the library on Pub Day last week. (Not so humble brag). Every time I start a new Louise Penny book my inner dialogue says, "Slow down, savor it! You'll have to wait a year for the next one." This time I succeeded better than in the past and spread 𝐓𝐇𝐄 𝐌𝐀𝐃𝐍𝐄𝐒𝐒 𝐎𝐅 𝐂𝐑𝐎𝗪𝐃𝐒 out over a couple of days. I'm an unapologetic Penny Pusher. I adore this series. Over 17 books, Three Pines and the characters who dwell there have started to feel like old friends. There is so much to love. The writing is beautiful, and the story had me invested from the get-go. I always appreciate the mystery, but I stay for the way Penny shines a light on the best (and worst) parts of what makes us who we are. The glimpses of love and friendship. I was a little uneasy when I saw that it took place just after COVID- but true to form, Penny nailed it.

Definitely one of Louise Penny's best. Contemporary in that she doesn't shy away from the current pandemic, although when she wrote it, she probably figured it would be a thing of the past and not ongoing as it is in real life, but with the addition of highly controversial subject matter as personified by a mathematics professor with a shocking agenda and a Sudanese refugee up for the Nobel Peace Prize, there are elements above and beyond even her usual excellence. In this one, she examines the nature of familial love and its challenges.

This is the seventeenth book in the Gamache series and follows All the Devils Are Here which I finished reading a couple of weeks ago. Devils took place mostly in Paris so I was glad to see that Madness returns Gamache back to the familiar setting of Three Pines along with its eccentric and interesting denizens. Madness takes place shortly after the Covid pandemic has been deemed to be over. Gamache is assigned to provide security for a visiting statistician who has used her data to conclude that in order to survive, the world needs to take steps to reduce the population by taking the drastic step of forced euthanasia on the disabled elderly and congenitally defective young. She purposes that this would improve response time in future pandemics but her methods are horrifying to many including Jean-Guy who has a young daughter with Down syndrome. The statistician is scheduled to speak at a gathering near Three Pines and Gamache is worried that she may be a target. And of course, someone does attempt to shoot her during the gathering. But was the attempt meant to kill or just scare her? Also visiting Three Pines is a woman from Sudan who suffered unspeakable hardships there from an early age including being kidnapped, beaten, and raped, until she is able to escape captivity and campaign for human rights. She is also being considered for the Noble Peace Prize. Then there is a professor who lives alone in the woods who at one time worked for a despised professor who was using human guinea pigs to study brainwashing for the Canadian government and the CIA. The characters stories intertwine and some very dark secrets are revealed leading to an unexpected murder. Can Gamache and his crew solve who and why the murder was committed? This was another very good entry in the series. The mystery of who committed the murder reminded me a lot of an Agatha Christie mystery with Gamache in the role of Hercule Poirot. There were many false leads but of course in the end Gamache is able to sift through the past to arrive at the right conclusion. I'm now looking forward to reading the remaining books in this series. Next up is A World of Curiosities.

A thought-provoking social issue combined with intriguing characters and Mystery writing at its Finest SUMMARY Abigail Robinson, a professor of Statistics, has been invited to lecture at a college near Three Pines. Armand Gamache, Head of Homicide at the Surete in Quebec, has been requested to provide security. It’s the middle of the holiday festivities and the weather is dangerously cold. It’s strange timing for a statistics lecture. But when Gamache learns of the lecture’s subject matter, he is horrified. He begs the college to cancel the speech to no avail, the college arguing academic freedom and censorship. Abigail Robinson’s lecture promises “all will be well” in the era following the pandemic if her recommendations are followed. Since resources will be limited in the future, Robinson argues that steps need to be taken to reduce the elderly and infirm population. Her proposal causes immense division, debates, and divisiveness. When shots are fired during the lecture, Gamache risks his life to protect Robinson and calls for calm. The following day, a friend of Robinson’s is murdered in Three Pines and left for dead in the snow. Gamache and his team investigate the crimes amidst the brewing controversy. Was it a case of mistaken identity, an attempt to stifle Robinson’s message, an attempt at sympathy, or perhaps even revenge? “As they trudged through the snow toward Clara’s pretty little cottage, Ruth lost her footing. Haniya grabbed her before she fell. She held Ruth’s hand for the rest of the way, and wondered if maybe the key was not in being held, but in holding.” REVIEW Author Louise Penny creates a relevant, entertaining, and poignant murder mystery in her seventeenth Armand Gamache novel. THE MADNESS OF CROWDS starts with a highly controversial ethical debate that will have you seething—combine that with several potentially untrustworthy characters and its mystery at its finest. You don’t know what to think or who to believe. Penny’s writing about social issues gives us plenty of food for thought, which is precisely what makes this book and this series so delightful. I can’t get enough. When asked if this series must be read in order, I say start wherever you want, the beginning, the end, it doesn’t matter, just start reading them now. You’ll be glad you did! I listened to the audiobook for THE MADNESS OF CROWDS. The narrator did a fabulous job differentiating the characters and bringing the story to life with perfect pitch and pacing “The madness of crowds was a terrible thing to see. The madness of police with clubs and guns was even worse.“ “The trick wasn’t necessarily having less fear, it was finding more courage.“ Publisher Macmillian Audio Minotaur Published August 24, 2021 Narrated Robert Bathurst Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

OMG … what a read!! As always, Louise Penny has written a well woven plot with a few new characters and clever “refresher” comments on our old friends of Three Pines. At the same time, I am a bit chilled by how prescient this plot could be…

When Louise Penny decided to write a sequel to ALL THE DEVILS ARE HERE, she knew that THE MADNESS OF CROWDS would take place “post-pandemic. As the world returned to ‘normal.’ But the bruising remained. The sorrow, the tragedies, but also the oddly rich blessings.” She felt that readers had had enough and needed a break. In ALL THE DEVILS ARE HERE, Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his wife, Reine-Marie, visit Paris for the birth of their first grandchild, Isolde, who has Down syndrome. Gamache has reunited with his 94-year-old godfather, Stephen Horowitz, who is recovering from an attempted assassination. They convince Stephen and their expanded family to return with them to Three Pines. Both Stephen and Isolde play an indirect role in the underlying theme of Penny’s latest and most profound character-driven novel. It is the holiday season in Three Pines, and public gatherings are joyfully embraced. Free from fear of infection and ready for entertainment, people turn out for any occasion. A gymnasium at the nearby university plans to open its doors to a stream of spectators who will hear a lecture by Abigail Robinson, a visiting Professor of Statistics. Her saying “All will be well” has caught on. It will be the largest crowd since before the pandemic, and Gamache’s law enforcement team is put on alert. Concerned about possible disorder, Gamache meets with Professor Robinson and Collette Roberge, chancellor of the university, to persuade them to cancel the address. The two ladies, who are childhood friends, refuse. This obscure professor has become a prophet, leading a growing movement, and Gamache prepares his team for the event. Professor Robinson is a statistician whose figures seem to prove that better times are ahead, emphasizing economic recovery and an all-needs-met health care system. Crowds --- worn down from grief and endless months of social distancing and masks, or simply tired of being afraid --- flock in growing numbers to hear her emotionally charged message. Now, instead of being asked to make a hundred sacrifices, the population would be asked to make just one. But what would that be? And who is this Abigail Robinson? The Royal Commission had requested statistical data on the pandemic, and Robinson came up with one simple solution. Upon reading her findings, the Royal Commission refused to publicize the information. So Robinson decides to do it herself and has taken it to the road, speaking to ever-growing audiences and streaming her speeches online so others can hear. And see. When Robinson says, “All will be well,” she does not mean everyone. Her message has now played across social media. Ratings are up, and sides are being drawn. A lobby entry offers an array of T-shirts, caps and buttons, ordained with her catchy phrase. What had begun as a dry research project headed for the government files has slipped its moorings. The chant “All will be well! All will be well!” can be heard in French and English in the auditorium. Stomping and clapping grow louder. Then come shouts of “Shame!” and howls of derision. When someone throws a chain of firecrackers at the group, chaos breaks out. And a single gunshot is heard. Of course there is a murder, which is expected from a Louise Penny novel. But nobody does it like her. She offers a lineup of multiple suspects for us and Gamache to consider. It is a true whodunit until the very end. THE MADNESS OF CROWDS is not political, though American audiences may think it is. This is perhaps Penny’s most powerful novel as it explores the psychological and emotionally charged national and international conundrums of the post-pandemic world. It is the lies we tell ourselves and the truths we hide that smolder like coals beneath an untended fire. And it continues to hover from our rear view mirror. Is it prescient that Louise Penny invites Haniya Daoud to her cast of characters? A potential nominee for the Nobel Peace Prize, she champions rights for Muslim women and world peace, and has a tiny role in the plot as the horrors in Afghanistan play out on the evening news. Reviewed by Roz Shea

What I love about reading a Louise Penny mystery is the priority of emotion. Seeing the world through that lens. Seeing the light, the dark, and the beautiful contrast that's made when the two meet. Giving form and creating shade, helping us see and identify the whole.

In my opinion, this is one of the stronger books in the Armand Gamache series. I've thought about how to review this one, but to be honest I'm so biased and emotionally close the characters that any attempt I'd make to review it would look something like this: LOVE IT!! READ IT!! I loved it. I want everyone to read it. I know Louise Penny's writing style is quite dramatic in its framing and use of sentence structure—not to mention the plot—but it just really works for me. I loved everything about this latest one and am already upset that I have to wait an entire year for the next one. Blog | Instagram

A perfect blend of fascinating characters, picturesque setting and a delightfully complicated and mesmerizing story. SUMMARY On their first night in Paris, the Gamache family gathered for dinner at a bistro with Armand’s godfather, the billionaire Stephen Horowitz. Walking home together after the meal, they watch in horror as Stephen is hit by a car and critically injured in what Gamache believes is no accident, but a deliberate attempt on the elderly man’s life. When a strange key is found in Stephen’s possession it sends Armand, his wife Reine-Marie, and his former second-in-command at the Sûreté, Jean-Guy Beauvoir, knee deep in secrets Armand’s godfather has apparently kept for decades. A gruesome discovery in Stephen’s Paris apartment makes it clear that the danger is greater and more imminent, than they realized. Gamache will have to decide whether he can trust his friends, his colleagues, his instincts, or even his own family. Hell is empty, and all the devils are here.” William Shakespeare REVIEW This is only the fifth Louise Penny novel I have read. While I have been intrigued with her books I have not been truly in love with them, until now. This book made me want to start at the beginning of the series and read them all in order. I am now hooked. One of life’s pleasures is a book that comes to life in your hands as you read it. This book was real. I felt as if I was in Paris with the Gamache’s, staying at the Hotel Lutetia, touring the Eiffel Tower and tasting the delicious pastries from the boulangerie. Penny’s writing is meticulously descriptive and and delightfully captivating. She hooks you with the tragic accident and the action doesn’t stop until you close the cover. It’s both exhilarating and emotionally exhausting following the activities of the entire Gamache family as they work together to search for the reason behind and the parties responsible for the attack on Stephen. Combined this minding-bending search with the a plethora of subplots. Gamache’s daughter, Annie is expecting a child at any moment, and revelations regarding the long held tensions between Armand and his son. lead the list, My favorite part was how so many long held secrets come to light during the story and how the story unfolds one delicious morsel at a time. ALL THE DEVILS ARE HERE is a perfect blend of fascinating characters, picturesque setting and a delightfully complicated and mesmerizing story. I loved the title, the literary references and the atmosphere of the story. Thanks to Netgalley and Minotaur for an advance copy of the audio book for this title in exchange for an honest review. The narration and delivery by Robert Barthurst was absolutely superb. Publisher Minotaur Books Published September 1, 2020 Narrated Robert Barthurst Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

Louise Penny has generated a following from her rendering of a small village near the Quebecois metropolis of Montreal. She has deftly added the head of the homicide division of the Sûreté du Québec, Armand Gamache, to each plot. In previous books, Gamache’s investigations allow him to range further from here but never has there been a plot that centers on Paris, France. Now the whole family is in Paris for celebration. What could go wrong? -----Almost everything! My mate, who has read every one of these books, tells me that Penny has become a favorite because of both the nature of the mysteries and her skill with characterization. I have jumped into this one because I guessed I could get away with doing so, given its geographical separation from all that has gone on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean. Even though my assumption was somewhat erroneous, I do believe that All the Devils are Here can be read separately. How was I off—base? Well, Gamache has his whole family with him. Some of whom have been in Paris for a long time and others have recently resettled. He has the chance to meet up with his “godfather,” the man who took responsibility for him when Gamache’s parents were killed while he was still a young boy. This man, Stephen Horowitz, used to bring him from Quebec to Paris every year when his work provided the opportunity. Horowitz suffers a violent attempt on his life right in front of Gamache and his wife and son and the book explores the secrets of this wealthy industrialist as tendrils of the plot reach into the lives of each of the Gamache family. There is no doubt that Gamache would want to investigate a crime committed right in front of him (Actually, two crimes but enough of that for now.). Why doesn’t the Paris Sûreté want to cooperate with him? Was the project that Horowitz seemed to be interested in the cause of this violence? Does this mean corruption at the highest levels of government and industry? "But it’s hard. Documents were destroyed. The archives themselves were in a shocking state after the war. They’d been ransacked by the Nazis, who burned anything that contradicted their worldview. We lost countless irreplaceable manuscripts." I enjoyed being dropped into the extended family in all its complexity. I was fascinated by Penny’s rendering of contemporary Paris. Penny seems to be working on several levels. There is a deeply placed secret that may reach back to the Nazis and the French Resistance There is an intricate plot involving corporations and technology There are family secrets and misunderstandings that illuminate Gamache There is an examination of the French bureaucracy and how things really work And, this may be Penny feeling free to express her love of the non-tourist Paris most of us will never see. Not many books have me holding my breath, or shedding a tear. This one did both.

As a fan of Louise Penny and her Armand Gamache series, I jumped at the chance to review the latest Penny masterpiece, All the Devils are Here, the 16th in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. Like the many twists Louise Penny gives us, there is a twist for me as well, it was my first audiobook to review for NetGalley and MacMillan Audio. Worried at first that I would not be able to savor each chapter and appreciate the intricate details of her carefully crafted mysteries, audio narrator, Robert Bathurst allayed my fears with an oracle narration that was equal to the masterpiece Penny delivers. Fans of Penny and the Gamache series will not be disappointed as Armand travels from Three Pines to the city of Light, Paris. Armand and wife, Reine-Marie, journey to Paris to visit their children and grandchildren. The Chief Inspector gets an opportunity to spend time with his godfather, Stephen Horowitz, the man who he treasures as he raised him after his parents death. What could be more enjoyable than a family reunion in one of the worlds most beautiful cities? Of course that peaceful family reunion is short lived when Stephen is brutally attacked one evening after dinner. Having witnessed this attack in the street against his beloved godfather, Armand and his son-in-law, Jean-Guy, know this wasn’t a random accident but a planned attack. Who would do such a thing? Armand will not allow his brilliant sleuthing skills to go unused when he is unsure that the Paris police can be trusted. There are so many twists and turns in Penny’s latest thriller and this time Armand’s investigation puts him and his family in danger. Will Gamache stop at nothing to discover the truth even if it costs him dearly? What does his son Daniel know as his employer his implicated. Penny has always allowed the reader to be a voyeur in these books. We hang around and develop intimate relationships with these people. Characters are on first name basis. Robert Bathurst does an even better job narrating this tale than I could have imagined. We will learn more about Armands relationship with son Daniel which has been filled with tension and resentment. Bathurst allows it to go one step further and “feel” the tension and emotion. Penny’s book is a reference to the famous quote from William Shakespeare’s The Tempest, “Hell is empty and all the devils are here,” While the city of light may be dim with the devils, Armand Gamache provides a beacon of hope and light to this sophisticated, beloved imperial city. I received an advance copy of this audiobook from NetGalley. #NetGalley #AlltheDevilsareHere

“Don’t believe everything you think.” All the Devils Are Here by Louise Penny is a masterful addition to the Chief Inspector Gamache series. If you're a fan of Chief Inspector Gamache series, you're in for a treat. And if you're new to Louise Penny's writing, well, get ready to be hooked! In this captivating mystery, Penny takes readers on a thrilling journey through the streets of Paris as Chief Inspector Armand Gamache investigates a seemingly accidental hit-and-run that soon reveals itself to be a sinister conspiracy. One of the standout aspects of Penny's writing is her ability to create rich and intricate characters that come to life on the page. Gamache, as the central protagonist, is a deeply empathetic and introspective character. His astute observations and unwavering determination make him a compelling and relatable figure. The supporting cast is equally well-developed, with each character adding depth and complexity to the story. “Hell is the truth seen too late.” The setting of Paris provides a vivid backdrop for the unfolding mystery. Penny's descriptive prose beautifully captures the essence of the city, immersing readers in its charm and allure. The rich historical and cultural details enhance the atmosphere and add another layer of intrigue to the story. “History wasn’t just written by the victors. First it had to be erased and rewritten. Replacing troublesome truth with self-serving myth.” But let's get down to business. The plot is a rollercoaster of twists and turns. Just when you think you've got it all figured out, Penny throws another curveball your way. It's a slow burn, building up the suspense until you're on the edge of your seat, dying to know what happens next. The pacing is well-balanced, allowing for moments of introspection and reflection amidst the action and intrigue. Penny also explores the family dynamics, which adds a whole new dimension to the story. Loyalty, betrayal, forgiveness—these themes hit you right in the feels and make the characters even more relatable. “Patience. Patience. With patience comes choice, and with choice comes power.” Penny's prose is elegant and evocative, painting a vivid picture of both the characters and their surroundings. Her attention to detail and keen observations create a rich tapestry that draws readers in and keeps them engaged throughout. “history wasn’t just written by the victors. First it had to be erased and rewritten. Replacing troublesome truth with self-serving myth.” All the Devils Are Here is a testament to Louise Penny's skill as a writer. With its compelling characters, atmospheric setting, and intricate plot, it is a captivating addition to the Chief Inspector Gamache series. Whether you're a longtime fan of the series or new to Louise Penny's work, this book is sure to leave you eagerly anticipating the next installment. “I just sit where I'm put, composed of stone and wishful thinking: That the deity that kills for pleasure will also heal, That in the midst of your nightmare, the final one, a kind lion will pick your soul up gently by the nape of the neck, And caress you into darkness and paradise.”

Louise Penny simply never disappoints. I loved this latest in the Inspector Gamache series as much as I have loved all the rest. I've listened to all of the them on audio (they beautifully read) and with this one, I adored the beautiful sounds of French names and places being read by an expert narrator. Set in Paris, rather than beloved Three Pines, it was like having had a wonderful visit to the City of Lights, and so timely, since any trip to France right now is impossible. Louise had me biting my nails with worry and crying at the end for the beauty of the perfect conclusion. Highly recommend, as usual

You can still read this as a stand-alone. But...To gain the most from this series, start at the beginning. I honestly believe that this series has gotten better with time. After coming off of State of Terror, (Review here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) I found myself ready for what I thought would just be a simple cozy. Instead I was taken on a breathless action-packed walk through Paris trying to unravel this mystery whodunnit. And being the mystery reader I am, it takes a lot to keep me off track. So kudos to Ms. Penny for doing just that! The writing is excellent and the story had me invested from the get-go. The Paris conspiracy is complex and there's a large array of characters, so the story requires a good bit of concentration, but totally worth your time.

Thrilling, pacey, and action-packed! In this latest novel by Penny, All the Devils Are Here, we head to Paris, France where Chief Inspector Gamache of the Sûreté du Québec and his extended family will find themselves uncovering long-buried family secrets, examining the inner workings of a company with suspicious intentions, and inadvertently investigating the murder of an engineer and the attempted murder of one of their own. The prose is sharp and crisp. The characters are intuitive, loyal, and dependable. And the plot, including all the subplots, intertwine and unravel seamlessly into an engrossing tale of secrets, deception, familial drama, manipulation, corruption, greed, violence, and murder. All the Devils Are Here is the sixteenth novel in the Chief Inspector Gamache series and whether it’s small-town mayhem, big-city crime, or newsworthy headlines it’s always an absolute indulgence and pleasure to sit back, open the cover and immerse yourself once more in an intricate mystery perfectly befitting this humanly flawed, intelligent, steadfast character who you can’t help but root for. Thank you to Raincoast Books for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.

Another 5 star from Louise Penny! I look forward, all year, to August or September, for the next Armand Gamache novel. The last few have disappointed me a bit and I felt I was going to really be unhappy when I read none of this latest book took place in Three Pines (a place I long to visit, and maybe live, in my imaginary mind). The book takes place entirely in Paris...so you can’t go too wrong...but still, it was not Three Pines! But! ...I was pleasantly surprised and could hardly put this one down. We learn so much more about Armand’s family in this book. I think it may be the only one in the series I actually got a little teary while reading..or maybe the second. It was so good, maybe a favorite in the series. I just missed the village folks and coziness. I won’t go into any of the details, but if you love Armand Gamache, you’re going to love All the Devils Are Here! I can hardly wait until next year already, for the next book and many other reasons! A 2020 winner.

All The Devils Are Here (Chief Inspector Armand Gamache #16) Louise Penny I have never read the series at all nor a Louise Penny before and this was a wonderful surprise for such a thrilling and fast paced read about Chief Inspector Gamache in the setting of Paris. As this is an Audiobook review, I want to commend the incredible Robert Bathurst for the amazing voice and reading of this book. It truly transported me to the story and brought Chief Inspector to life. It made reading this book all the more dramatic, with the atmosphere of Paris and the murder mystery – all worked together into an incredible audiobook I highly recommend. Louise Penny fans do recommend reading this series in order and will definitely do that. I just loved this I am a fan of the Inspector and of course Louise Penny!

4.5 Stars Thanks, #netgalley @macmillanaudio for a complimentary audio ALC of #allthedevilsarehere …. All opinions in this review are completely my own. All the Devils Are Here, #16 in the Inspector Gamache Series, is set in Paris. The death of Armand Gamache’s godfather is made to look like an accident, but Gamache and his family suspect it is a deliberate murder. Soon the entire family is involved with searching for the truth, unraveling a web of lies and deceit, and facing danger from many directions. Can Gamache trust his beloved godfather? His son? His instincts? His past? Are you a fan of Inspector Armand Gamache and Three Pines? We can depend on Louise Penny for a fast-paced, complicated, thoughtful, and intriguing plot. If you appreciate well-told stories of powerful and corrupt corporations, you might be especially captivated by this story! In addition to the mystery and detective work, there are subplots involving the birth of Jean-Guy and Annie’s baby and unresolved father/son tension. One reason I love the Inspector Gamache series and have read them all is that the books are a perfect balance of plot-driven and character-driven. Penny writes intense, “heart-stopping” action but doesn’t neglect the complicated character of Armand Gamache. This delicate balance of a dedicated family man and loyal friend and fast-paced action represents my ideal reading experience. Without giving spoilers, the ending is one of the more satisfying in the entire series! I could write a whole post about it! Some of us might be disappointed that All the Devils Are Here is not set in our beloved Three Pines. However, isn’t the glamorous City of Lights an acceptable alternative?! And, after all, how many murders can actually happen in that small Three Pines community?! Louise Penny’s vivid and detailed descriptions of Paris, the delicious pastries, and points of interest make me feel like I am right there walking the streets with the family. Penny’s writing is atmospheric and creates a strong sense of place. We might not be with the quirky and interesting characters of Three Pines for All the Devils Are Here, but we are with the entire Gamache family. In the previous fifteen books, we haven’t learned that much about Daniel, Gamache’s son. Penny has waited for book sixteen to fill us in on the strained father/son relationship. I love stories with complicated family drama themes! Even though the mystery is compelling, I think the family dynamics drive the story and are intriguing and heartfelt. We see loyalty, sibling rivalry, jealousy, misunderstandings, protectiveness, sacrifice, forgiveness, trust, and reconciliation. Now that’s a great story in my opinion! Louise Penny doesn’t skimp on thoughtful themes! All the Devils Are Here includes father/son misunderstandings, sibling relationships, grief, family loyalty, childhood trauma, workplace intrigue, trust, friendship, sacrifice, healing, belonging, coming home, and the treasure of family. The title references a line from the work of William Shakespeare: “Hell is empty, and all the devils are here.” I enthusiastically recommend the entire Inspector Gamache (Three Pines) series for readers who are fans of mysteries, for those who appreciate a mature and wise detective who also has the highest morals and is a dedicated family man, and for readers who love thoughtful and smart writing. Others have said, and I agree that, Louise Penny hits her stride with book #4 (book #3 is my least favorite). However, the earlier ones are important in character development and introducing an overarching story line. I have a few favorites in the series (#7, #9, and #13) and All the Devils Are Here is among them because of the father/son storyline and heartfelt ending. Read the Series in order! Although you might be tempted to jump into the series with book #16 (and it is possible to read this as a stand-alone), you would be missing a great deal of character development that happens from story to story. Read in order starting with Still Life for the best reading experience! For more reviews visit my blog www.readingladies.com

I love Armand Gamache & his entire family. This novel left Three Pines, the wonderful, cozy community called home to Paris, where the children & grandchildren live. I do not recall Stephen Horowitz from a prior book. I fell in love with this series and have read 16 books in this last year & a half, therefore some of the details have grown hazy. That being said, Book #16 has become my favorite. Leaving the comfort of home to venture into the unfamiliar & uncomfortable (Armand & Daniel) and discovering the truth makes it so worth the journey. As it always does. The family has come full circle as did the entire storyline. I love Penny’s books for this along with the history, the details, and more. What Penny ALWAYS does is makes you believe you fully understand the story, then unveils the reveal and the story turns. For the 1st time ever I noted a small detail, thinking I was so clever! I was not. The end of the story proves this small detail is an integral part of the story. Again, what I believed it to be was only slightly true. It was oh so much more than that. I adore the characters like they’re old friends. I love Three Pines and always feel like I’ve come home again. Thank you to Louise Penny for having the courage to go back to Paris after Michael died and crafting one I don’t most favorite stories of the series.

ALL THE DEVILS ARE HERE is the 16th book in the Gamache series. I thought I better try to catch up a little on this series because Penny just recently published the 20th book, THE BLACK WOLF, that I'm looking forward to reading. It's been about a year since I read the previous book, A BETTER MAN, but I'm hoping to finish reading the remaining books soon. ALL THE DEVILS was another page-turner in the series that I really enjoyed. This one is somewhat a change of pace and scenery for Gamache with the book taking place almost entirely in Paris. Gamache and his wife, Reine-Marie, are there to visit their children and grandchildren. Gamache's former chief of homicide in the Sûreté du Quebec and his now son-in-law, Jean-Guy, has moved to Paris with his wife Annie who is expecting their second child, for a job with an engineering firm. Gamache's son Daniel and family also live there where he has a position in banking. Gamache's 93-year-old billionaire godfather, Stephen, is also there as the family gathers for dinner. But then on the walk from dinner, Stephen is run down and critically injured in what Gamache knows is no accident. Later, a man is found murdered in Stephen's apartment by what seems to be professional assassins. So what is happening here? There seems to be a high-level conspiracy involving the engineering firm where Jean-Guy works and members of the Paris police department. But what is being covered up and why? I enjoyed the setting in Paris even though I did miss the usual eccentric characters residing in Three Pines. The novel provides some back-story on Gamache and his relationship with Stephen as well as his strained relationship with his son Daniel. Overall, the book included a lot of tension and suspense but it also included some happy family scenes including the birth of a new grandchild for Gamache. I'll be looking forward to reading the next few books in the series.

The title of this sixteenth book in Louise Penny's Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series, as many reviewers have noted, is taken from Shakespeare's play, The Tempest. Yet, the crime and the criminals depicted in this story bring to mind another author's titular phrase: "The Banality of Evil." For as Gamache's friend the chief of police in Paris notes toward the end, today's villains are good people who smile and do nothing when they see evil. The comparison to Hanna Arendt's 1963 book on Nazi Germany and Eichmann's trial for war crimes is also apropos because the setting for this novel is not Quebec, but rather Paris. And the story of France's Nazi past provides the backstory of this novel. Steven Horowitz, Gamache's godfather, was a member of the French Resistance. But when Stephen tries to take down a criminal business organization whose products are killing thousands, his reputation as a resistance fighter is called into question. Was he in reality a Nazi collaborator? Did Steven, like so many collaborators in the immediate aftermath of the war, claim to fight for the resistance in order to avoid the consequences of his actions? If he was a collaborator during the war, what does that say about the motives of his actions in the present? Are they too based on self-interests? Stephen cannot defend himself because he lies in a hospital bed in a coma after being deliberately run down by a car. Armand Gamache must solve the crime and discover the truth about his godfather’s past. The complex crime story is accompanied by an equally poignant story about the bonds of family and the quest for belonging. As noted earlier, this novel is not set in the quaint town of Three Pines, in a remote area outside of Quebec, Canada, and so many of the familiar characters that fans of this series have grown to love, such as Ruth Zardo and Clara Moro, play only minimal roles in this narrative. And yet they are never far from our minds, as each of the Gamache family members in Paris—Steven, Armand, Reine-Marie, Annie, Jean-Guy, and Daniel—struggle literally or figuratively to find their way home. Ultimately it is their love for each other and for their circles of friends that throws light on a world in which too often the banality of evil triumphs. As always, Robert Bathurst’s narration of the audiobook is superb; he breathes life into each of the characters, capturing their conflicted emotions and their complex relations with one another. I confess ever since I first heard his rendition of the books, I have been hooked on this series in audiobook form. I love being transported by his voice and the author’s words to the eclectic town of Three Pines and in this case to the sights and sounds of Paris. I would like to thank NetGalley, the author, and the publisher for an advanced copy of this book in exchange for a fair and honest review.

There's no point in my rating Louise Penny's individual Gamache books, because the whole series is a five-star experience. And even though Ruth doesn't make an appearance until page 429, she's there throughout in spirit, and in Honoré's first word. I have said several times that I'm not a big mystery reader, but it's often because the writing doesn't work for me rather than the stories don't. I love Louise Penny's style, her sense of humor, her sense of humanity, her sense of families–both biological and found. I wish I knew her as a person and a friend. I think she'd be a wonderful person to talk with and to travel with. Anyone know her number?

this book made me feel every human emotion possible in a span of ~300 pages - anger, heartbreak, unease, but overall pride. i never read Tom Sawyer or Huck Finn growing up so i just did cliff notes of both of them before starting this (i know i know dont yell at me.) but yeah, i loved this. the ending!! so good

Percival Everett's James is a transformative reimagining of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, but this time, Huck is merely a supporting character to Jim—now James—a man whose journey to freedom becomes the heart and soul of this gripping novel. This isn't just a retelling; it's a ferocious critique of racism, slavery, and systemic inequality, delivered through dark humor, biting satire, and moments of profound emotion. The novel dismantles the simplistic portrayal of Jim in Twain’s original, replacing it with a complex, resilient figure who reclaims his own story. James is not the passive character from the original story. He’s observant, sharp-witted, and even philosophical. He debates with famous thinkers in his delirium, as he edges closer to death. These are not merely flights of fancy; they reflect his awareness of the absurdity and cruelty of the world in which he lives. James knows that he is seen as nothing more than property, and rather than resign himself to that fate, he chooses to risk everything for a life of freedom, even if it means facing danger at every turn. The novel begins when James learns he’s about to be sold, which would separate him from his wife and daughter. With a bold determination, he runs, hoping to earn enough money to buy his family’s freedom. His path crosses with Huck Finn, who has also run away from an abusive father. Together, they embark on a perilous journey down the Mississippi River. But what is an adventure for Huck is a desperate bid for survival for James. Everett doesn’t sugarcoat the brutality of slavery, and while Huck remains oblivious to much of James’ suffering, their relationship is fraught with tension and unexpected moments of connection. As James navigates encounters with bandits, con artists, and white men who paint their faces black for minstrel shows, the novel builds a world that feels both real and nightmarish, where danger lurks at every bend in the river. Yet, amidst the darkness, James remains determined to reclaim his story. As he says in his own words: “My NAME IS JAMES. I wish I could tell my story with a sense of history as much as industry. I was sold when I was born and then sold again. ... I am a man who is cognizant of his world, a man who has a family, who loves a family, who has been torn from his family, a man who can read and write, a man who will not let his story be self-related, but self-written.” Everett gives us a novel that transcends the boundaries of the original tale. James is no longer just a symbol of slavery’s brutality—he’s a man with agency, intellect, and an unyielding determination to protect his family and reclaim his humanity. James is not only a profound retelling but a far-reaching commentary on race, freedom, and the enduring impact of slavery. With vivid characterization, harrowing depictions of survival, and a narrative that resonates with historical and contemporary truths, this book is one of the year’s best. It challenges readers to see the world through James' eyes, offering a powerful meditation on the price of freedom and the strength of the human spirit. Highly recommended for those ready to revisit a classic story with fresh eyes and a new heart. Follow me on medium.com to read my articles about books, movies, streaming series, astrology: medium.com instagram facebook twitter<

“Are you insane?” “No. However, I did get the idea from an insane person.” James is a fictional story that imagines a character from The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn. The main character, James, is a slave on the run after he discovers that his family is to be sold. The short chapters, effective use of dialogue, and surprising reveals keep the pages flying faster than a steamboat. Everett is clearly a veteran storyteller with this mesmerizing work showing the skill of a seasoned professional. In addition to the reimagining aspect, interwoven into the story is a creative take on the Identity Plot. Throughout the book, James wrestles with his name and his identity, and he struggles to make split-second impossible decisions which only add to the heartbreaking realness of the work. The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent): Hardcover Text – $36.00 a signed copy from The Mark Twain Store Audiobook – 1 Audible Credit (Audible Premium Plus Annual – 24 Credits Membership Plan $229.50 or roughly $9.56 per credit) Connect With Me! Blog Threads BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

Samuel Clemens, who took the steamboating term “Mark Twain” as his pen name, knew the Mississippi was a deadly river to navigate. But it feels like a tranquil brook next to the tumultuous waters of American literature. You can hear that stress prefigured at the end of “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn,” when Huck admits, “If I’d a knowed what a trouble it was to make a book I wouldn’t a tackled it.” Indeed, Huck has never had it easy. Mark Twain toiled on the manuscript off and on for years — sometimes unsure how to continue it and clearly unsure how to end it. Before the novel was released, someone noticed that an illustration of Uncle Phelps had been enhanced with an obscene endowment. That act of vandalism, presumably by an unknown engraver, was fixed, but just weeks after the book appeared in 1885, the library in Concord, Mass., condemned “Huckleberry Finn” as “trash.” Once critics caught that scent, they never let up. Huck’s coarseness was initially the problem — “the whole book being more suited to the slums than to intelligent, respectable people,” according to one library committee. And the dialect that Twain sweated over offended the sensibilities of self-styled defenders of English who knew how a proper book should sound. As many White Americans began to catch up with Huck’s respect for his Black friend, the book’s use of the n-word — more than 200 times — was increasingly intolerable. By the 1950s, some schools were expelling “Huck Finn” for its racial insensitivity. As late as 2007, it was still one of the 10 most challenged books in the country. It’s worth noting that Huck begins his own story by referring to Mr. Mark Twain with a little metafictional joke: “He told the truth, mainly.” That word “mainly” runs as wide as the Mississippi in the spring. And on the currents of such a stream of possibilities, Percival Everett has now set “James,” his sly response to “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.” The timing may be accidental, but it couldn’t be better. Our barely United States is once again tearing itself apart over which books should be banned and how African American history should be taught. Meanwhile, “American Fiction,” an adaptation of Everett’s 2001 novel, “Erasure” — which satirizes the publishing industry’s condescending regard for Black writers — is up for five Academy Awards. What better moment for one of the nation’s preeminent authors to reconceive the nation’s central novel? Like Huck, you might think, “I been there before,” but. . . . To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/books/...

Booker Shortlist 2024 Percival Everett reimagines—no, inverts-- the classic saga of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn that resides in every American’s consciousness. Huck Finn and enslaved Jim’s adventures have been in print for 140 years. If you didn’t read it in American schools, you’ve likely still been affected by its content. Everett reappropriates that story, turns it upside down and inside out, and leans formidably forward by making this a story and POV of Jim, with Huck at his side. I am in awe and in thorough admiration of Percival Everett’s skills and fierce talent. My personal favorites, The Trees (shortlisted for Booker in 2022), and Telephone (a finalist for the Pulitzer in 2021) combine laconic protagonists, subversive wit, and tragic events. In James, he has made Twain’s classic his own historical fiction, and I applaud it as the contemporary bookend of Clemens' saga. He improves upon it by giving Jim agency. I predict that they will be teaching both books side by side in the coming years. “White folks expect us to sound a certain way and it can only help if we don’t disappoint them…The only ones who suffer when they are made to feel inferior is us.” This is Jim, teaching his daughter and other enslaved children a lesson in coded speech. Although they speak eloquently amongst themselves, they communicate submissively to white people in a "slave dialect," which enhances their survival in a world where they are nothing but chattel. It also illuminates their resourceful intelligence as they hide (linguistically) in broad daylight from their ignorant “massas.” Additionally, the enslaved people pretend that God and Jesus are primary in their lives, when in actuality, as Jim states, regarding white folks, “religion is just a controlling tool they employ and adhere to when convenient.” How cynical it was that early American Christian identity was predicated on a proslavery theology. As in Twain’s original, Jim and Huck run off together from Hannibal, Missouri and ride the Mississippi River, beginning in a raft. The main plotline of the original text is captured, but comically and dramatically turned on its head. Jim leads a double life—one that he owns, and one that meets white people’s expectations. In fact, there are those that are more threatened by a Black man with eloquence than they are by a Black man with a pistol. Intelligence is Jim’s stunning subterfuge. He has a rich interior life, and in dreams, he debates slavery and philosophy with the likes of Voltaire, Rousseau, and John Locke. As an autodidact who enriched himself in Judge Thatcher’s library, Jim spends stealth nights in there poring over the judge’s books. His quick wit, thoughtful compassion, and deep humanity also become his ammunition in a hostile world. As the plot progresses, Jim and Huck grow closer, and more revelations are gradually disclosed. The major twist is foreshadowed early on, so it doesn’t come out of nowhere, and it changes the complexion of the story. As others have already noted, this is the novel that Everett was born to write. In his hands, his heart.

“How strange a world, how strange an existence, that one’s equal must argue for one’s equality, that one’s equal must hold a station that allows airing of that argument, that one cannot make that argument for oneself, that premises of said argument must be vetted by those equals who do not agree.”. Everett abandons Huck Finn as narrator, placing us instead in the weary, observant eyes of Jim, the enslaved man who aids Huck on his flight down the Mississippi. Jim, in Everett's hands, is no longer a sidekick, a naïve truth-teller but a shrewd critic of his own captivity and a wry observer of white America's absurdities; his gaze a searing indictment of the racial hypocrisy. The familiar scenes of the river journey take on a new and unsettling power; a journey that curdles into a treacherous odyssey, the idyllic fantasies of Huck shattered against the hard realities of Jim's captivity. The picaresque humor of the original is now intwined with a bitter awareness of the violence and degradation that pervade Jim's world. “…natural liberties, and we all have them by virtue of being human. But when those liberties are put under societal and cultural pressure, they become civil liberties, and those are contingent on hierarchy and situation.” James is not a comfortable read. It is a confrontation, a reckoning with the sins that continue to haunt the American “experiment”. It is a novel that forces us to ask ourselves just how much has truly changed since the days of Jim and Huck's fictional flight down the Mississippi. It is a challenge, a call to interrogate our most cherished assumptions. Everett's prose is sharp puncturing Twain's sentimentality and exposing the hypocrisy that infects Huck's narrative. But for those willing to descend into the depths with Everett, James offers a necessary illumination, a harsh light that reveals the complexities of race, identity, and the elusiveness of true freedom in America. “Why did God set it up like this?” Rachel asked. “With them as masters and us as slaves?” “There is no God, child. There’s religion but there’s no God of theirs. Their religion tells that we will get our reward in the end. However, it apparently doesn’t say anything about their punishment. But when we’re around them, we believe in God. Oh, Lawdy Lawd, we’s be believin’. Religion is just a controlling tool they employ and adhere to when convenient.” 4.7/5

** Pulitzer Prize winner 2025** Wow, that touched my soul in a way I wasn’t expecting—the winner of numerous accolades and well-deserved. I finished the last few pages on a flight, slightly shattered and profoundly hopeful. James is a powerful, moving read. It deeply touched my heart and was much more than The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. We delve deeply into the world of Jim (James), cheering for him throughout his treacherous journey. It's heartbreaking and heartwarming —an extraordinary story. Reading the original story as an adult, I wanted more for "Jim," and found it in this book. There were many moments I was brought to tears—rarely has a story transformed me into an unfamiliar time and place. Author Percival Everett transcended time, creating an atmosphere that is both uncomfortably gut-wrenching, tragic, humorous, and heartwarming. How often can you say that about a book? The most significant deviation from the original story was James' education — primarily his ability to read, an advantage he kept close to his heart and a tremendous transformation. If I could see the words, then no one could control them or what I got from them. They couldn’t even know if I was merely seeing them or reading them, sounding them out or comprehending them. It was a completely private affair ... Some reviewers didn't like this change, but it created a balanced and believable possibility that James could stand up for himself and overcome the oppressive system. When Huck uncovers the truth about his father, I was moved to tears. You can be white or black. Nobody will question you.” “What should I be?” “Just keep living,” I said. “Just remember, once they see you, or see me in you, you’ve been seen. I know you don’t understand. But you will one day He had always felt affection for me, if not actual love. He had always looked to me for protection, even when he thought he was trying to protect me There exists an unbroken truth between Huck and James—like father and son, they will support each other through it all. They have a genuine connection that touches the heart. While reading James, I was sitting at the edge of my seat, hoping he would escape and find freedom for himself and his family, but hope can't always be trusted. “What’s so funny?” “I don’t know. Hope? Hope is funny. Hope is not a plan. Actually, it’s just a trick. A ruse." The most potent quote in the entire book--encompassing the inequality: How strange a world, how strange an existence, that one’s equal must argue for one’s equality, that one’s equal must hold a station that allows airing of that argument, that one cannot make that argument for oneself, that premises of said argument must be vetted by those equals who do not agree Why did I love this story so much? It moved quickly, the drama intense and continuous. The quotes were thought-provoking, and the story was what we needed to read in the dark climate of current affairs. Jim was a resilient character; his struggles, fears, and happiness were all part of the reader's psyche. Overall, one of my top reads this year! 5/5 stars

A fabulous read… action packed.. humorous in many spots and moves at a fast pace! This is the story of James, a runaway slave who needs to get money to buy his wife and daughter from the slave owner. Huck is helpful here too. This all happens right before the start of The Civil War. Some surprises! I listened to most of Huckleberry Finn on audio prior to reading this..I think you should have some knowledge of that story before reading this… you can find a summary of that book online.

James is the 22nd book I read by Percival Everett. When I was at book #18, I met the man when he spoke on a panel here in NYC where I live. I’d brought my copy of Erasure for him to sign. I’d chosen carefully—the newest looking of his books on my shelf. I wanted to present him with something pristine. After the panel discussion, I crept out of the audience, around the circle of panelists’ chairs, and, like a teenager with crush, smelling my own sweat, I said, “Mr. Everett, would you sign my book?” He couldn’t have been more affable. And as he wrote, I blurted, “I’ve read 18 of your books.” “Oh, so you’re the one!” he joked, a line I sensed he used a lot to those of us in what was then a small cult of fans. Undeterred, I further blurted, “When I first discovered your work, I felt like my head exploded.” He smiled kindly and handed me my paperback, fully aware that I was as in love with him as a reader can be from only an author’s books, and I didn’t know what to do with the feelings. Every one of Everett’s books is different, but having read so many, I feel like all of them have led to James. James is far more accessible than a lot of his other books, and it is perfectly timed to convey his essence to the huge audience he has “suddenly” evoked due to a movie based on Erasure that he had virtually nothing to do with. (I have not seen it because I like the edge in his books, his anger, his uncompromising intellect—even when it is over my head—and his refusal to mitigate any of it with anything that would make his work more accessible, and I’ve heard that the movie softens all that.) What is Percival Everett’s essence? For me, it is the thing that made my head explode on first contact: he is absolutely himself. He refuses to fit into any box, under any label designed by someone else. There is loneliness to this kind of a life. A loneliness that can become a choice because at some point you know that nobody—or very few people—will see you as you know yourself to be. (He writes about this in not only Erasure, but I Am Not Sidney Poitier, Dr. No, God’s Country, and many of his short stories.) In James, he has parsed this out for the masses, using Mark Twain’s Huckleberry Finn as a launch pad. Why this book now? Because it’s legal—The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, written in 1884, is now in the public domain. But more importantly, perhaps because the masses are now open to hearing that Black people are and always have been individual people with individual thoughts, ideas, and peculiarities just like all human beings. This sounds obvious, but in our country it is anything but—proved by the stereotypes that make Black men “dangerous” and all the other notions that weave through our culture. As in many of Everett’s books, James disarms us with humor. There are the fools, the clowns whose cruelty is matched only by their idiocy. As in one of my favorite of Everett’s short stories, “The Appropriation of Cultures” (in his anthology Damned If I Do ), there are ingenious absurd yet logically-obvious-except-nobody-has-thought- of-them plot twists. There is the unpredictable picaresque journey (I Am Not Sidney Poitier, Dr. No). And there is also an undertow of “yearning to be seen and known.” (I wrote about how subversive this is in the book-within-the-book of Erasure; I have no idea if Everett would agree with my take, but it’s what I felt.) This is what gives Everett’s books a subliminal heartbeat . . . and it hurts—in a good way. New in this book, although there are aspects of it in other books, is the utter exhaustion of the code-switching Black people have learned by necessity by the time they have social interactions. And, here, that is married to the exhaustion of living in a slave culture of “duplicity, dishonesty or perfidy (195)” where you can’t tell who is telling the truth or who might act like an ally but turn out to be the worst kind of enemy. But because of Everett’s genius, reading James is never exhausting and always entertaining. And for me, the newest aspect of this book is a full pulsing catharsis—set up by the ending of his remarkable God’s Country in 1994, delivered in an almost mythical form in 2021 in Trees, and finally, in James, experienced through the heart of a man who loves his wife and young daughter, who loves the son who didn’t know him as a father, and loves life enough to fight for it. Oh, my heart!

Growing up, one of my fondest memories is reading Mark Twain with my father. So when I learned about this reimagined tale of one of my childhood favorites, I was excited to get an early copy to read. Set in Missouri in the 1840s, James tells the story of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn through the eyes of enslaved Jim. When Jim hears that he is going to be sold to a man in New Orleans, which would separate him from his wife and daughter forever, he runs away to form a plan. Meanwhile, Huck Finn has faked his own death to escape his violent father, and of course, we all know what happens next- the duo embarks on a transcendent journey down the Mississippi River in hopes of reaching the free states. Percival Everett brilliantly gave a voice to one of literature's most well-known characters, Jim a runaway slave who prefers to go by James. James the person, is the exact opposite of how the world perceives him. He's a wise sage, who's nihilistic but also carries a profound tenderness for his fellow humans. To be inside the mind of someone that was born enslaved, and desperately wants to be reunited with his wife and child, is an experience I will not be forgetting anytime soon. Even though it's been decades since I read it, while reading James, the story of Huck Finn came back to me. Percival Everett has crafted a masterpiece in James. This book is going to be one of the biggest literary events of 2024 and will also become a modern classic. James by Percival Everett will be available in March, 2024. A massive thanks to Knopf/Doubleday for giving me the opportunity read an early copy!!

One of the best things I have read in years. I plan on doing an in-depth review soon, maybe after a second reading. Just brilliant.

A WORTHY COMPANION to Twain’s Huck Finn. I gasped and physically reacted to sections. Who would dare set themselves up for comparison (with near guaranteed embarrassment) to Twain’s masterpiece? Percival Everett, I guess. And Christ does he pull it off. I will make the argument that Jim’s perspective is of greater use to readers than Huck’s. This is an important book.

“I was as much scared as angry, but where does a slave put anger? We could be angry with one another, we were human. But the real source of our rage had to go without address, swallowed, repressed.” This is not Mark Twain’s Jim. This is a new Jim. This is James, still enslaved but revealing his authentic self, not the demeanor that the enslavers require. He is an astute reader and thinker, a devoted husband and father, able to activate the facade of an obedient and dull-witted slave when needed when interacting with those who see him as less than human. Everett’s reimagining of Twain’s Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is brilliant. It is both funny and tragic. I travelled along with James through each adventure, each danger. I held my breath, I cheered, I was enraged. James is longlisted for the 2024 Booker Prize and well worthy of it. Whether or not it wins, it should be required reading. I can foresee it being included in high school English curriculum - at least in some states.

4.5 rounded to 5 for GR! I GET THE HYPE! i didnt read this in 2024 despite the hype bc i really couldn’t recall anything from the original Huckleberry Finn novel and i was scared that would make this not resonate as well. but after chatting with a few friends on it that confirmed you don’t really need to remember the OG details and seeing the audiobook was highly rated/less than 8 hours, i finally picked it up—and i’m so happy i did! and it’s true—you can easily follow the story if you don’t recall the original!!! (if anything, just Google “huck finn summary” prior to reading and you’ll be all set!) 🎧 if this is still on your TBR, please consider the audiobook!!! it’s deff one of my faves—the narrator brought everything to life so well. the vernacular and the way the characters talk is a huge part of the story and i would think that doesn’t come through as strongly in the physical copy! this story was equally parts entertaining and heartbreaking. i loved learning and following his adventures and journeys to escape being sold away from his family and the obstacles and people he ran into along the way. this story had SO much packed into a short listen—the backhalf was truly so action packed, i was invested and couldn’t stop listening until it was done. my one issue is that i wish we had a bit more resolution with James + two specific characters… semi spoiler so ill stop there, but one is a main character and one is a character he met/travelled with along his way. and the ending 🥺🥹🫶🏼 oh i loved it!!!!!! it resolved a bit quickly but i liked the overall resolution this is being adapted into a film via Steven Spielberg and i cannot wait to see it come to life. this story should be required reading for all as it’s important to understand and always remember this part of American history… it makes me so sad and sick to even consider these events were likely based on very real and true events 😭 TLDR—absolutely worth the hype!

"James" is revisionism at its best. After 140 years, Jim, the black slave from "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn", is given his own voice and what he has to say is exciting, funny, absurd and shocking. Although the story is well known, it opens your eyes even though you would rather close them. What is described is too shameful. The arrogance of the whites, their complacency, cruelty and double standards - it's all hard to bear and yet the history here is also a mirror of the present. "James" is an adventure novel, a literary road movie, in which numerous colorful characters appear that remain in your memory. It is also an astute - almost Shakespearean - play on the absurdities of racism, in which a black man among whites with blackface must first be made up white in order to be able to convincingly embody this blackface. In which language serves as a strategy, as a means of resistance and self-assurance. "James" is the novel that "The Underground Railroad" or "Washington Black" should have been. It is a novel that tells of the unspeakable with ease, whose delicate heaviness first goes to your head and then sinks into your heart, where you carry it with you for a long time.

probably 5 stars in few months this is so inspired and Percival's writing is electric.- 2024 ReREAD 5 stars this is perfect. I enjoyed it 10x more the second time, its riveting

Don't go into this, as I did, expecting comedy. A few lines of this novel were indeed as 'ferociously funny' as the blurb promised, but overall, this is one of the most devastating books you'll ever read.

Stellar Stunning Brilliant Unforgettable An adventure of a lifetime I am in love! WOW. A best read for 2024!

“I had never seen a white man filled with such fear. The remarkable truth, however, was that it was not the pistol, but my language, the fact that I didn’t conform to his expectations, that I could read, that had so disturbed and frightened him.” ― Percival Everett, James I rarely consider retellings. They are often about earlier classics, and I'm getting too old to remember that far back. However, I did love this novel, and I loved James, the runaway slave. By reimagining the story from Jim's point of view, the author effectively laid bare the uncomfortable truths of white racism and slavery. I'm glad that I listened to the audio. It made the phonetic dialogue and Jim's coded "slave speak" easier to appreciate. It ultimately revealed James to be smarter and more self-educated than many of the white enslavers that he met along the way. All the stars for this astonishing piece of work!

Percival Everett’s reimagining of the American classic Huckleberry Finn couldn’t be more timely or important. At a time when—inconceivably—this country is banning books like To Kill a Mockingbird and Beloved, and a Florida governor is talking about the “benefits” of slavery, we need a book like James to meet this frightening moment. But first, let’s talk about Mark Twain. Percival Everett says in his acknowledgments that his “humor and humanity affected me long before I became a writer.” Indeed, Mark Twain was ahead of his time, lampooning American society and its hypocrisy when few others dared to do it. Which makes the irony of Huckleberry Finn being banned because of its use of the N-word all the more absurd. Percival Everett doesn’t shy from using that reviled word. He’s writing about his time, but he’s also correcting the perception that Huckleberry Finn is a white boy’s story. His viewpoint is that of the slave Jim’s, whose story it really was all along. As in his book Erasure (the inspiration for the movie American Fiction), there’s a lot about how Black people speak. Their very lives are hinged upon how well they master the language expectations of the “massa” (sho’ enuf, massa) or “dat be da best conebrad”). A minstrel scene about James pretending to be a white man in Black face demonstrates beautifully how silly the whole concept of judging by skin color is. It's been years since I read Huckleberry Finn, but memories came flooding back to me, particularly the scenes with the King and the Duke. Interestingly, James can tell they are con men way before Huck based on his need to size up white men quickly. James is wise and cynical enough to know the truth of the world. When he acquires a pencil—with horrible consequences—he writes, “With this pencil I write myself into being.” Too many enslaved men and women did not have the luxury to write their own story; it was communicated for them. By writing James, Percival Everett takes a step toward correcting that, by enabling James to narrate his own story. This book is phenomenally good and should be taught along with Huckleberry Finn at all schools. That is, if our democracy survives. Six stars!

I mean, the short review is that this novel is as good as everyone says it is. Everett isn’t telling a story about the antebellum South, this is a story about living in the here and now. It is about what it means to claim your voice and identity in a world that barely believes you’re capable of having a voice. Almost every review I have read or watched has to first talk about the use of language and the code-switching, and while I thought that was ingenious and really effectively used, I am a little surprised at how that is the first thing so many people talk about. Anyone from any marginalized or oppressed identity/community, though this may be especially true for people of color, can instantly relate to that code-switching. It is literally happening every day in near every community across America. Once the idea is presented there is an “of course!” moment, because this is familiar. This isn’t fantastical, this is history. There are enough rave reviews about this novel that I don’t really have a lot more to add. But the two things that stood out for me were the character development and the actual writing style. Through the first 2/3 or so of the novel, I was trying to decide if James was going on any sort of inner journey. He knows himself so well right from the first page, regardless of what he is told about himself, that I wasn’t sure what kind of journey his character might be taken. By the end, though, you realize there is a journey. It isn’t a monumental role-reversal or revelation, but a leaning into what he already knows to be true. It is not his mere assertion of his identity but his creation and embrace of it. That inner journey isn’t full of fireworks, but rather a slow and persistent erosion, a freeing himself from the marble slab where he always knew his likeness to reside. It is a subtle but important journey, the one from assertion to acceptance and embrace, and I found it really moving. As for the writing, what was most skillful is that it really does parallel Twain’s novel that inspired it. The chapters are short, the writing direct but playful, not afraid of interiority and sentimentality but also not resting or wallowing in it, moving from story beat to story beat, keeping the reader eagerly turning each page. It is incredibly easy and satisfying to read, and the language and style really creates the world, or rather worlds, of the characters. Famously “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” was one of the first novels to be written entirely in a local vernacular, and “James” does the same but twice over. There are many ways this story could have been written and still been effective, and yet every page felt like an homage to and extension/update of Twain. The simplicity of the style allowed a deeper resonance with James’s experience, which just goes to show that there was nothing simple at all about it but in fact it was incredibly well-conceptualized and constructed. What else to say that hasn’t been said? The themes of what it means to take ownership of oneself, to write oneself into being, as well as those of complicity, identity, guilt, and culpability are all rich gardens full of enticing fruit. Everett never has to be didactic or heavy-handed he is simply honest and direct, and uses profound characters, smart writing, and visceral world-building to let those truths be self-evident. (Rounded up from 4.5)

I went into this book fairly blindly. Since Huck Finn is such a well-known character in literature, I had a vague understanding of what I was getting into, but I had never read the source material. This was incredible. The subject matter is obviously very difficult to read. Really, really bad things happen to James and some intensely tragic ends come to some folks he befriends along the way. There were some scenes which were incredibly difficult to read. I was rooting for James so hard. While there are some obviously heartbreaking events that take place along his journey, there is a very clear adventure element present, especially in the last third of the book. Huck Finn is an unlikely companion and doesn't always have tact, but the relationship is endearing. I just really loved getting this story from the perspective of James, and I'm happy I read this one first.

Don’t think you’re reading another Twain This book is filled with so much pain It reimagines all Huck Finn From the perspective of poor Jim —Though in this version his name is James And he’s a writer like Baldwin James So articulate bright and brave Far from your cliché of a slave Well-read in Rousseau and so on He knows way more than he lets on Not that he really has a choice Slaves ain’t supposed to have no voice The only way not to be dead? Keep your damn thoughts inside your head For in those days were slaves to speak They would be hanged within a week (view spoiler)

perfect? Yeah, that’s the word

INCREDIBLE. I don’t know how Percival does it. Just hit after hit. What a read! I think he's my current favourite writer. There's something to be said about reimagining or reinvigorating a story that sought to disappear a main character in the experience of another. Everett flips everything on its head. I've never read Mark Twain's main story, yet through skillful reverse engineering and forward-thinking creativity - I could read that story without ever having read that story. Ironically, this matches the experience for me this past weekend listening to Cowboy Carter by Beyoncé. For those who know, they know. Black folks are raking through the past and pulling out the truths of history, the horrors, the lies, the hiding of things and that's got white folks shook. Everett creatively shaping truths and putting them out and it being celebrated illustrates the ways that men, sometimes, in a patriarchy, get more leeway to engage in that exploration, and naturally women are challenged on every front. Doesn't mean they stop, but they are challenged. Doesn't mean they stop. Go listen to Cowboy Carter. James is something else. Everett managed to push me through so many thought processes, he exposed my own deep inner thoughts around code-switching, tone-policing, etc and the legacy of what that has done to the community, the bad and surprisingly the good. Everett pushed me through EMOTIONSSS. The last sequences of the book reminded me of the realities, similar realities explored in another book, David Diop's At Night All Blood is Black. Another incredible read. Why wouldn't a man reflect the craziness that he's been pushed into? Trying to right a wrong, a deep wrong, can be an unscalable mountain, especially when barriers have been erected and then hidden under a pile of shit and a lethal level of lynch-based violence that many are trying to pretend doesn't exist or has been eradicated in 2024. It hasn't been. I kept wondering while reading: how?? where are we going to go with this?? where is he going??? how is James going to? What is the...? Where is the...? How can we possibly...? How can he..? Does he...? Will he...? Percival Everett had me. This book has layers. Layers upon layers. I couldn't even get into talking about the layers with my book club because it's something that needs to be experienced. Some folks won't get the layers. Some will want to ignore them. This book will stay with you for a long time after that last page though!

James is an extraordinary read. This is Percival Everett's retelling of Mark Twain's The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. Everett retells the story from Huck's friend Jim's POV. Jim is best known as the runaway slave that Huck befriends after he himself runs away. Everett maintains the plot points of Twain's original story, but brilliantly gives Jim a radical makeover. First by having Jim reclaim his birthname, second, expanding on his intelligence and perceptiveness, and third, radically changing the nature of James and Huck's relationship. Everett incorporates his trademark of on the mark satire with hillarious scenes of not only ignorant slave owners, but supposed white sympathizers. There are harrowing scenes of the cruel treatment of slaves which I found difficult to read, but what was just as heartbreaking was how James is forced to take on a role as an illiterate and submissive slave. What can be worse then to have to hide your intelligence and individuality especially for your own survival? Everett could've taken many different approaches through his interpretation of Twain's characterization of "Jim." He could've ripped apart the original story, but he's respectful of Twain's most noted work. James has propelled Percival Everett further into the spotlight this year with more acclaim and a wider audience. Everett has written not only a landmark novel in his own career, but also a landmark in literature in of itself.

Rating: 6.5 stars Of all authors on my list, Percival Everett remains the favorite. Few if any authors feign genre categorization, possess willingness to merge genre and in some cases, insert themselves as characters. As a distinguished English professor at USC and prolific author, he proves classics like "Tom Sawyer" have room for change and this controversial spin confirms it. To wit, a quote from the final chapters, "I am a sign. I am your future. I am James" Not exactly what you'd expect from a Civil war slave. Using the 'intellectual' narrative of James, the reader follows the journey of Jim and Huck (Finn) as they escape captivity in Hannibal, MO, home to ruthless slave owners, rapists and criminals. Jim is father to Lizzie and husband of Sadie, who like him are owned by Hopkins, a disgusting excuse for humanity. While the majority of 'niggers' are illiterate, Jim has learned much from reading Voltaire and other classics courtesy Judge Thatcher's collection. Being well read, he hides his valued vocabulary through slave language, a classic magician's misdirection. Not only did he fool the owners, but his friend Huck, who like most in this time period is illiterate and dimwitted. The mismatched duo venture into the river on canoe with hopes of escaping capture. The times being what they are, the journey to freedom is rocky, its challenges continually changing. As the plot plays out we witness Jim's uncanny ability to overcome adversity when least expected. At one point Jim's tenor voice results in being 'purchased' by Emmett, the leader of a minstrel group. Jim soon learns that he's a wolf in sheep's clothing and plots yet another escape. While reading this story I couldn't help but be reminded of William Kent Krueger's, The River We Remember its similarity the journey of a young boys escape on the river. And while Krueger's prowess is formidable, Everett's ground breaking approach puts this in an entirely different category. Through narrative and theme, Everett emphasizes his disdain for slavery and how African Americans have been disregarded and brutalized. I suspect it has to do with today's surfacing of white nationalism, division and racial injustice. Regardless, this is a true masterpiece and am willing to bet it will be short listed for the Pulitzer. For those who read my reviews, you're aware I prefer concise to wordy, and keep character/plot cards close to the chest so as NOT to spoil the experience. This is without doubt one of the best books this year and highly recommended for ALL!

Huck Finn’s companion gets his own novel? And it’s written by a true master? Oh, yes. Yes, please. He’s not “Jim,” or that other word. He’s James. Just James. The novel opens with some traditional songs like Blue-Tail Fly associated with slavery. But the narrator shows us he only speaks that language to appease white people, to feign inferiority, and hence preserve his safety. Not only does he read and write, but in moments of duress he’s visited in a dream state by European philosophers like Voltaire and Locke. The house owner tries to sell him but he flees, vowing to come back for his wife and daughter. And then his story intersects with Huck: they head downriver, sort of for safety, sort of for something else. But it’s not like you remember it! Unlike Demon Copperhead, you probably should read the original. Although the term “American Classic” can conjure visions of dreary school-required literature, The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is easier and more fun to read. You can view it as YA. Hey, if you’re dying to read James and don’t wanna waste time, go ahead and skip HF. But you might get lost. Percival Everett does what he does: he fashions a complex, interesting, controversial, fascinating main character. James is tough, intelligent, and resourceful. His monologue is smartly written but also quick and witty. His worldview is an amazing window into that time in history, infused with then-radical views on slavery and equality. But his anger and hatred build up oh so slowly. He uses the term “survival” and contrasts it with “living.” Many of the things he does could be considered criminal, even by today’s standards. But he doesn’t give us time to moralize. Instead, he lives those things out. He regrets stealing, for example, but he does it to survive. And if you have to steal to survive, if you have to resort to violence just to protect yourself and your family? What is that, exactly? At its heart, James is an adventure novel in the same tradition as its parent tome. A man on the run is bound to have escapades, and they just don’t end. Something big happens on every page, and the plot twists, turns, and churns, much like the river itself. The themes of slavery and freedom permeate, but if you just read this for the thrill, you’d be riveted just the same. The ancillary characters you know from Huck Finn get depth and detail. I loved the Duke and the dauphin from the original, and there was more here. The portrayal of Huck is spot on, and even Judge Thatcher becomes interesting. As I approached the ending, I thought back to Everett’s other stories, particularly The Trees. He always seems to have some dark, harrowing conclusion. This was no exception. It reminded me of a spy novel, where everything falls together, and the hero must take on the most dangerous tasks to avoid total catastrophe. He might have to break some serious laws, or even his own moral code, to do it. It’s a goofy analogy, perhaps, but the movie “Taken” came to mind. I’ll bet Everett wanted me to personalize, internalize, the injustice of slavery. He wanted me to experience what it means to be identified as a slave, to know through action the violence and social implications of slavery of those times. Not so much what they mean today; that’s a different novel. Lots of authors try this, try to imagine characters of those times and paint a picture of what we think people experienced in a time through which none of us lived. But none have succeeded as he has. I’m left wandering around, contemplating the ideas of freedom and oppression. And I got it through one of the most innovative adventure stories I’ve read in a long, long time. The man can do no wrong. Absolutely worth the hype. Added to my growing list of “The Best of 2024,” and might just take the title.

This book is VINTAGE Nicholas sparks - full of damn good story telling, characters you fall in love with, and backstories that break your heart. Hard to believe that Sparks has been writing for 25 years and just keeps getting better and better. I love when Sparks uses the “story within a story” literary device-he used this in The Notebook and The Longest Ride- it’s fun to be able to get involved in both stories. THE WISH is a complex story that addresses: teen pregnancy, adoption, parental expectations, cancer, first loves. 10 percent in I had my first cry. I loved all the characters. I loved the setting and the story itself. Maggie will forever remain in my heart. I am beyond grateful to Gallery books, Edelweiss and Nicholas Sparks for the early read. Cannot wait to share this story with EVERYONE September 2021.

Sparks: You will cry. Me: Wow, so confident. Well challenge accepted! Also me by the end of the book: *Uncontrollably sobbing* I’m never going to recover from this😭. Seriously guys! I haven’t cried this hard since It Ends With Us by Colleen Hoover. I was hooked from the beginning, and it got more and more interesting, and sadder and sadder. I swear some of these books have no respect for my grades. Like stop being so good! I have to study. After a few chapters, I could tell that this book was going to break me.The ending was shocking and perfect. I loved this book so much! ‼️SPOILERS‼️ Maggie’s family was so awful. I’m so happy that she met Bryce. Maggie was so mature though. I’m glad it wasn’t some unrealistic romance where they gave up everything just to be with each other, but Maggie talked some sense into him. And then they didn’t get to say goodbye😭. And then he died😭😭!! I literally saw it coming and started weeping before I actually read the words. And fucking Mark! I started to suspect him after a while. I just couldn’t figure out how exactly he could be connected to Maggie, and then I knew even before he gave her the gift. I was like there literally is no perfect ending than that. On top of all this, he reminds her of Bryce. When she said in her letter that Bryce somehow affected who Mark is today, it didn’t make sense but also it made perfect sense. Great job Sparks!

Dang it, Nicholas Sparks! I had to run, not walk, to find a tissue multiple time while I finished this book. In my opinion, this is the best title from you in years. My favorite has always been A Walk to Remember and this recent release contains some of the elements that make for a wonderful read. At the top of the list would be combining young love and a tragic illness in the narrative. There are some beautiful themes in this new title affirming motherhood, pursuing your passions, life, adoption, and homeschooling. There are two timelines that are intertwined. One is mostly in 1995-6 while the more current one is in 2019. In both we find our characters exploring what love is and how we show or act on that love. There is a difference between not wanting to lose someone and truly loving them. I couldn't help but think of this verse from I John. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear ~ I John 4:18a This is a holiday read that will remind you to cherish those you love best and extend grace to those in your life who love you more than they can show you.

Edit: The chapters were insanely long, but I still LOVED this book so much!!!! OH MY GOSH!!!!!! The Wish was so good!! I have read many other books by Nicholas Sparks, but The Wish is the best one he has written. I absolutely adored this book, it was so heart touching. This novel had me hooked from the very first page, and I couldn't put it down. When I thought I knew what was going to happen I was completely wrong. The Wish destroyed my heart with each page, I was a sobbing mess. 1996 was the year that changed Maggie Dawes's life forever. At the age of 16 Maggie was sent away to live with her aunt in Ocracoke, North Carolina because of personal reasons. Maggie has a sister Morgan who she thinks that her parents favor. Maggie is nothing like Morgan at all. Maggie doesn't think she doesn't belong in Ocracoke because it's such a small island, and she thinks there's no one her age around. When Maggie is on a ferry ride with her aunt Linda, she meets Bryce Trickett, he's one of the few teenagers on the island as well. When Maggie is sent away she's not allowed to tell her friends why she's being sent away. When Maggie arrives in Ocracoke she can only think of the friends and family she's left behind in Seattle. Bryce shows Maggie around the town, he also tutors Maggie for school, and shows her the love of photography, which she instantly falls in love with. When Maggie got to Ocracoke she was failing all her classes and not doing very well, her aunt Linda was fairly worried about her so she wants Bryce to help Maggie. By 2019, Maggie is a renowned photographer. Maggie owns a gallery and lives in New York. Maggie is also suffering from a personal medical diagnosis which leaves her not to be able to always be at work. Maggie hires Mark, Luanne, and Trinity to help her out at the gallery when she can't be there. During the Christmas season Maggie and Mark stay behind, and Maggie tells Mark the story of her life in Ocracoke. Bryce and Maggie were such sweet people, my heart broke for Maggie throughout the whole story. Maggie will always remain in my heart. All I can say is have a box of tissues ready because this novel will destroy you. I'm so happy I picked up this novel it was that good!! I often found myself wanting to hug Aunt Linda, Maggie and Bryce, they touched me so much!! Mark seemed like such a sweet soul also.

This is my 8th book I’ve devoured by Nicholas Sparks and I think it may be his best book to date! (I recently listened to him on XM Radio and he himself said this was his best book to date). This has all the “feels” and I just could not put it down!! I loved the storyline, the characters and everything about it! I never, ever cry while reading books … ok, maybe only a handful of books I have cried while reading and I did with this one!!! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ all the way!!!!

What a great book. You outdid yourself on this book as you do in all of your books and movies. The characters in this book are great. I fell in love with each one, especially Maggie and Mark. I cried several times. This story addresses teen pregnancy, first loves, cancer, adoption, and parental expectations. I loved the relationship Maggie had with Mark (her assistant) and how professional Mark tried to remain even though he had feelings for Maggie. Maggie ended up having feelings for Mark and creating the very situation she wanted to avoid in the first place. Such a heartfelt story. I highly recommend. I want to read it again.

Nicholas Sparks brings all the feels once again in his new novel, “The Wish”. In 1996, an unexpected pregnancy sends Maggie Dawes to Ocracoke, North Carolina to stay with her aunt. As she adjusts to quiet, seaside living after the hustle and bustle of Seattle, Maggie comes to terms with her pregnancy, and starts to focus on her life after giving her child up for adoption. But when she meets Bryce Trickett, all of her plans change and the only thing she wants is to be with him for as long as she can. Now, in 2019 New York, Maggie is a travel photographer, and only now, ravaged by cancer, is she able to talk about her past and come to terms with all that she lost. Confiding in her young employee, Mark, Maggie hopes that her story will resonate and she will leave a little bit of herself behind. Nicholas Sparks checks all of the boxes in this novel; the ‘star crossed lovers’, the tearful decisions and, of course, a devastating death (or two). Combined they make “The Wish” as much of an emotional thrill ride as the rest of his memorable novels. Now twenty-five years in, Sparks is not slowing down, and I am so glad to say I continue to enjoy each and every book he puts out. Maggie is a likable character, a teenager full of angst trying to come to terms with a life choice that changed her whole world. Strong yet insecure, I wanted nothing more for her but to succeed, and I loved how Sparks portrayed her innocence and naiveté, while still managing to make her charming and likable. Bryce was far too good to be true, with absolutely ZERO faults (for a teenage boy??) even for a Sparks’s character, but I couldn’t help but like him anyway. I was jealous of the mature decision making that Maggie and Bryce showed, and I know that if I had that level of common sense as a teenager my life would be much different today. Nicholas Sparks’ novels are always easy to read, with the beautiful North Carolina backdrop, and his words flow just as prettily as his settings. Delightful and heartwarming, the ending delivered an unexpected twist that fit perfectly with the heart-tugging plot. “The Wish” is a book about first loves, regrets, and coming to terms with who we are and the choices we’ve made alone the way, told the way only Nicholas Sparks can. Beautifully written, I expect “The Wish” to be another one of Sparks’ book-to-movie hits.

I really really enjoyed this book. Nicholas Sparks has done it again. I love the back and forth time lines. Books and movies that have the before and after just take it up another notch. This story is about Maggie who goes back two decades to tell her story.

Damn, I think it just might have been his best one yet. I’m seriously an emotional wreck. This is true “Nicholas Sparks at his best” level; think A Walk to Remember and Dear John, it was very similar to those two, and I just loved how well written it was, and how much it pulled at my heartstrings. I think Sparks books had kinda fallen to the wayside there for a few years, I didn’t enjoy three in a row that he had published, and then I really liked The Return last year so I was anxious to start this new one.....and I truly believe he may have outdone himself here. It’s a story within a story formula that Sparks has used quite well before, and has a timeline of young 16 year old love in 1996 and a timeline of a woman spending her last Christmas on earth in 2019....and it just worked. So. Well.

At just 16 years old, Maggie Dawes moves in with her aunt who lives on a remote island off the coast of North Carolina called Ocracoke. While deeply missing her old life, family, and friends she comes across one of the few young people that live on the island, Bryce Trickett. The two become fast friends and Bryce introduces Maggie to the art of photography. Fast forward 23 years and Maggie is now making a living by taking travel photographs. Her job takes her to many remote locations all around the world and she is also running a successful art gallery at the same time. Everything changes for Maggie when she receives a devistating medical diagnosis. She hires a young helper, Mark, to continue with her business. Maggie relies on him heavily and over time the two become close. Maggie then tells Mark about the story of Ocracoke Island that changed her life forever! As I fully expected, Nicholas Sparks delivers a nearly perfect story in THE WISH. I loved this heartwarming story about hope, love, and life changing events. Get your tissue box ready, or maybe 2 boxes! This story will pull at your heart strings and make you smile and cry. I look forward to the next book by Nicholas Sparks. Honestly, I did not want this one to end. Many thanks to Grand Central Publishing for my ARC in exchange for my honest review. This review will be posted to my Instagram Blog (@coffee.break.book.reviews) on September 28, 2021.

The Wish By: Nicholas Sparks 5⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Get your tissues ready. With every book Sparks pens he amazes me. When a young Maggie gets pregnant she is sent to live with an aunt. 🏡 Her aunt wants nothing but the best for her. She makes sure that Maggie has a tutor and stays up with her studies. She introduces her to a young man, Bryce whom Maggie befriends. They start to have feelings for each other, but their futures look very different. 🏡 Over the years they manage to write and their love is evident. Then the unthinkable happens. We know from the beginning that Maggie is suffering from inoperable cancer. 🏡 Maggie works at a gallery and hires a young man who becomes an assistant. Mark befriends Maggie and helps make her last months very memorable and they become close. #thewish, #nicholassparks, #grandcentralpublishing, #bookreview, #bookstagram, #stamperlady50

“But never forget that love is always stronger than fear. Love saved me, and I know it will save you, too.” Nicholas Sparks did such an amazing job writing this book, especially with the ending. I have to admit I did see somethings coming, but the execution for the plot twist was beautiful. I really began to feel an emotional connection to the MFC and she defiantly brought tears to my eyes multiple times while reading. I recommend this book to anyone who wants a feel-good romance with a wholesome ending.

I cried.

Pensive, absorbing, and profoundly moving! The Wish is a beautifully written, touching novel that takes us into the life of Maggie Dawes as she spends her last Christmas savouring all the little things, enjoying time with those she loves, reaping as much pleasure and joy out of each day, and having no regrets before her battle with cancer comes to an end. The prose is eloquent and reflective. The characters are strong, compassionate, and endearing. And the plot is a compelling, highly emotional tale of life, love, friendship, kindness, generosity, honesty, humour, contemplation, and acceptance. Overall, The Wish is a charming, insightful, bittersweet tale by Sparks that, unlike most of his books that usually make me a little teary, this one absolutely slayed me. I think there was more than once when tears were trickling down my face. However, saying that this is the most exquisite, good for the soul story I’ve read in a while, and I do hope everyone grabs a few tissues and picks this one up in any version, as the audiobook narrators, Mela Lee and Will Collyer are fabulous, and spends a few hours immersed in a story that is guaranteed to remind you that life is short and every moment is truly precious. Thank you to HBG Canada & Hachette Audio for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.

I went into this book blind and I am glad that I did. I really liked Maggie. She had a that sarcastic teenager attitude but she was also very insecure and needing reassurance. I really loved how much she grew at Ocracoke (North Carolina) and how her aunt helped her to navigate an emotional journey of being a pregnant at 16. What a touching and emotional story from getting back into the groove of school with the help of her tutor Bryce to discovery of love. What I took from this book is to seize the moment because the future isn’t planned. The ending was just amazing though. Definitely a lost and found moment.

i’m not okay…i haven’t cried reading a book in a while. this was perfect for the holiday season although it is sad. but it is predictable so i should have properly prepared, i just couldn’t! i was leaning towards a 4 but the ending and emotions just really made it closer to a 5 for me

I am a left-handed, right brained person, with plenty of emotions. This was an emotional book all the way through. A 16-year-old girl get pregnant and is sent away to an aunt to stay there until the baby is born. While there she falls in love with a local boy and he with her. But the story begins when the girl is in her 30s and is looking back on that period of her life. She tells her life story to a young assistant. It is a very moving book, and it makes you want to keep reading to see what happens. All this is happening as I am feeling her emotions, her joys and her disappointments. A 5 star read.

I haven’t read a book by Nicholas Sparks for a long time and now I remember why I’ve always loved his kind of work. This book ripped my heart out and as much as it hurt it was a beautifully written book. It will be a book I will always remember❤️

This is one of my favorites. I generally like McGuire's books, but in my opinion this is by far the best of them. After reading my teenaged years away through endless sci-fi/fantasy books where the characters are often painfully stereotypical "golden boys" (and they are almost always boys), it is refreshing to encounter a book where the protagonist is deeply flawed, but yet we respect her. The characters and interpersonal relationships in this book are complicated but leave you guessing about details that occur behind the scenes and curious about the tales that are left untold. This is not to say that the complicated style never has its frustrations. There are occasional scenes which I still do not really understand, but for the most part these have merely increased the "re-readability" of this novel and kept me on my toes while reading. The story also does not make for easy reading due to some of these complications, and I could see the story turning off readers who might have been misled by the apparently fairy-tale-esq premise of the book into expecting something else. McGuire slips in some of his philosophy seamlessly into the dialog and actions of the characters. There were moments when I would read through a sentence of apparently innocuous text, only to do a mental double-take seconds later, struck by how easily a profound statement was weaved into the story without pomp or preamble. In my opinion, at the very least this is an entertaining book if you have ever watched The Wizard of Oz. But I also find it to be much more than just a good yarn.

Very pleasantly surprised at this odd, irreverent, and even uncomfortable —in some parts— novel. I was captivated by this witty story about Elphaba, the Wicked Witch of the West, the villain from The Wizard of Oz. But, this is no children’s book. Its setting is indeed the world of Oz, but the topics approached are totally adult and they are good for a lot of questioning, reflection, and great discussions of the most transcendent matters of life.

Welcome to the longest Goodreads review I have ever written! Oh, this book--I wanted to live in its pages forever! I can certainly see how this book would not be every reader's cup of tea. It is not a fast paced, action packed, plot driven narrative. The writing is very literary in style as readers are planted in the world of Oz and learn of its cultures, religions, and politics through the lens of one woman's life story. But the writing is also absurd and humorous at times, surprising laughs out of me when I wasn't expecting them. The five Parts of the story follow different eras of Elphaba's life, each section taking place several years after the previous one. Through her life story we confront questions of morality, faith, and philosophy. And though it fell apart a bit at the end for me and left me with many questions, I loved every minute of my time spent in Maguire's Oz! (To be clear, I definitely would not want to LITERALLY spend time there.) In Part I, Munchkinlanders, we meet Elphaba's parents: Frex, the unionist minister, and Melena, often left alone at their remote cottage to console herself with mind-altering substances. Frex is on a mission to preach against tiktokism and the pleasure faith that is becoming more popular when Melena gives birth to their first child, who is born shockingly green of skin and with razor sharp teeth (and because the author seems to be rather fixated on male genitalia in this first part of the book, she is born with "a bit of organic effluvia" or something in her groin that makes the midwives argue at first over whether the infant is a boy or a girl). She also avoids water at all costs, as it seems to pain her. Frex and Melena believe this child is meant as a punishment for them, or perhaps that she is possessed by some devil. Perhaps, thought Nanny, little green Elphaba chose her own sex, and her own color, and to hell with her parents. When Melena is expecting again, she faithfully takes capsules provided by Yackle, a crone at an alchemy shop, to try to prevent a recurrence of the defects of her first child (instead, little Nessarose is born without arms). In the reading of tea leaves, Yackle predicts greatness for Melena's children, two sisters. "She said history waits to be written, and this family has a part in it." In this part of the story we also get introduced to the Quadlings of southern Oz, as Frex and Melena befriend a foreigner named Turtle Heart. Quadlings seem to be seers of some sort, and to be the only residents of Oz who are aware of our/Dorothy's world. Quadling Country is swampy land where the people build their homes in the trees, connected by platforms secured with ropes. Workers from the Emerald City have begun to build dikes and divide the land into parcels that will no longer be self-sustainable, and then they find the land is rich in rubies. The Quadlings have foreseen a cruel and mighty stranger king arriving in Oz via hot air balloon, exterminating them in order to pillage their land for its riches. Frex decides this means the population down south are more in need of his ministrations, and he sets off with his pregnant wife, toddler daughter, and Quadling friend in tow. "She is herself pleased at the half things," Turtle Heart said. "I think. The little girl to play with the broken pieces better." In Part II, Gillikin, 17 year old Elphaba is off to university. She winds up befriending her pretty roommate, Galinda, which could not be more of a surprise to either of them. Galinda was slow coming to terms with actual learning. She had considered her admission to Shiz University as a sort of testimony to her brilliance, and believed that she would adorn the halls of learning with her beauty and occasional clever sayings. She supposed, glumly, that she had meant to be a sort of living marble bust: This is Youthful Intelligence; admire Her. Isn't She lovely? Galinda does not understand why Elphaba spends so much time reading old sermons about the nature of good and evil. Pagans of yore believed evil originated with the vacuum created when the Fairy Queen Lurline, who they considered to be the the creator of Oz, left them: "When goodness removes itself, the space it occupies corrodes and becomes evil, and maybe splits apart and multiplies. So every evil thing is a sign of the absence of deity." But the early unionists argued evil was an invisible pocket of corruption floating around, "a direct descendant of the pain the world felt when Lurline left", and anyone might pass through it and become infected with evil by no fault of their own. "But they believe in evil still," said Galinda with a yawn. "Isn't that funny, that deity is passe but the attributes and implications of deity linger-" "You are thinking!" Elphaba cried. During her time at this institution of higher learning, Elphaba becomes aware of the growing discrimination, encouraged by the laws passed by the Wizard of Oz who had usurped the Ozma Regent years before, against Animals (anthropomorphized, sentient and speaking versions of lower case A animals). One of their professors, Doctor Dillamond, is a Goat researching the biological basis for what makes an animal different from an Animal and from a human, to disprove that Animals are lesser and stop the inhumane treatment of those who had, up until the arrival of the Wizard, been considered equal members of society. It is during this time in her life that Elphaba learns her righteous indignity, a spirit of activism, and her derision for political machinations. This part of the story includes a murder, and a bid to recruit Elphaba, Glinda (who has changed her name for reasons I can't explain without spoilers), and Nessarose into the service of the despotic Wizard. His Oz is "a seething volcano threatening to erupt and burn us in its own poisonous pus", with "communities on edge, ethnic groups against one another, bankers against farmers and factories against shopkeepers". The one attempting the recruiting assures Elphaba she can harness her spirit and she "needn't live a life of unfulfilled rage". Also, an old woman named Yackle works selling tickets at some questionable sex club. In Part III, City of Emeralds, we see Elphaba's time as a secret agent, an underground activist. It is also when she carries out a romance with Fiyero, and I find I have to comment on his character here. I have never seen the Wicked musical, but I see that in the upcoming version, Fiyero is played by Jonathan Bailey, who seems lovely. I am a bit confused by this casting, though, as the character of Fiyero is an Arjiki prince from the Vinkus to the far west, a dark-skinned man with blue diamond tribal tattoos over his entire body. He is described as dark-skinned multiple times, ochre-skinned, and one character observes that his skin is the color of shit (this book is all about prejudice and discrimination in "civilized" society.) So why is he played by a white dude? Also, Fiyero is kind of the worst. All he does is patently disregard and disrespect all of Elphaba's clearly expressed wishes, so I don't understand the romance between them at all. But he does allow for conversations with Elphaba about the ethics of her righteous campaign and the eschewing of personal responsibility for any collateral damage. There is talk of terrorists hiding behind their ideals, and when questioned about the chance for innocent bystanders to be caught in the crossfire, Elphaba goes so far as to say, "Any casualty of the struggle is their fault, not ours." This is also when we first hear about Elphaba questioning the existence of souls, and that she certainly does not believe that she herself is in possession of one. After some more murder, we find ourselves in Part IV, In the Vinkus. At the end of the previous section, Elphaba arrived at a mauntery (a convent) in a state of "dreamless, sleepless grief" and is welcomed by a decrepit old woman, mad Mother Yackle. Seven years later, it is time for Elphaba to finally leave the mauntery "to conduct an exercise in expiation": "You feel there is a penalty to pay before you may find peace. The unquestioning silence of the cloister is no longer what you need. You are returning to yourself." Elphaba joins a caravan headed into the Vinkus accompanied by Liir, a young boy raised among the orphans at the Cloister of Saint Glinda. They travel to Kiamo Ko, the seat of the royal family of the Arjiki, where Elphaba plans to seek forgiveness from Fiyero's wife, Sarima. But Sarima will not hear of it: "You want to throw down your burden, throw it down at my feet, or across my shoulders. You want perhaps to weep a little, to say good-bye, and then to leave...This is my home, I am a nominal Dowager Princess of Duckshit, but I have a right to hear and I have a right not to hear. Even to make a traveler feel better." There is more talk evil and good ("in folk memory evil always predates good"), and there is the question of who Liir's parents are or were (I felt so bad for that little boy!) But Elphaba will not leave Kiamo Ko without being forgiven for what happened with her and Fiyero, and so she and Liir over time become part of the household and family. During this time, Munchkinland secedes from Oz. In Part V, The Murder and its Afterlife, things have not been going well for Elphaba. Now her sister (who had come to be viewed as a religious tyrant) has been killed be a house falling from a tornado, and some foreign girl has the magic shoes that Nessarose had promised would be Elphaba's if she were to predecease her. The Wizard and Elphaba each have something the other wants. There is more talk of Yackle, the Kumbric Witch of legend, the Clock of the Time Dragon, the Other Land, souls, good and evil, parentage. Who is in thrall to whom? And it all comes to a head in an ending we are familiar with from the Wizard of Oz, albeit through a different perspective than that told by the victor of the story. What I didn't love about this last part was that Elphaba here hardly seemed recognizable as the Elphaba in all the rest of the book. So I couldn't really understand her motivations here. Some reviewers describe it as her descent into madness, so I guess that could explain it. But boy did I enjoy the journey getting to this point, and I think this book presented me with things I will be thinking about for a long time. Maybe the definition of home is the place where you are never forgiven, so you may always belong there, bound by guilt. And maybe the cost of belonging is worth it. I think I MUST read the sequel at some point, since people seem to say it answers some of the questions left by this book. I look forward to it! People who hated this book seem to primarily have picked it up either under the belief that it would be like the Broadway musical, which it apparently isn't (and now I'm wondering if I really want to see the movie version of the musical after all, since I loved the book so much and will probably be disappointed by how different the movie/musical is), or under the belief that it was a children's book because the source material it is reimagining was for children. So be aware: the musical based off of this book apparently takes liberties and does not follow it precisely (this grim story also seemed like a very odd choice to turn into a musical, to me); and this story explaining everything that Elphaba went through to shape her into the Wicked Witch of the West painted as the villain is most certainly not for children.

EDIT: Oh hell, I'm rounding this up to 5 stars, since I'm pretty much crazy about it. It has substantial flaws that I'm well aware of--there's plenty of objectively better-written stuff I've rated lower--and my reaction has as much or more to do with what I brought to the book as with the book itself. But, try to be too objective and your rating system will turn into what you think you should like, rather than what you actually do. So 5 it is. -- I have a rocky history with this book. Tried to read it as a teen, found it boring, and quit. Then more recently, I saw the musical and loved it! Then I felt like a poser for preferring the lighter and softer version, contrary to my normal tastes, so decided to give the book another try. To my surprise, this time around it was a completely enthralling, intense emotional experience in a way books rarely are for me anymore (and good thing too--I finished more than a week ago and am still recovering). As the subtitle makes clear, this book tells the backstory of the stock villain from The Wizard of Oz--but (I suspect this has a lot to do with its low rating), it's not much like the original children's tale, nor like its own musical adaptation. Oz here is a dark, ugly and all-too-familiar place, rather than a magical fantasyland; people suffer, fail at their endeavors, and die; it's almost nihilistic, although lightened by some humor and absurdities. Readers should also be prepared for a somewhat unorthodox structure: the book covers almost 40 years, which means some significant time-skips, and we see a large chunk of the story through the eyes of characters who aren't actually important (although they think they are, naturally enough, which may make it jarring for some when they disappear). I'd talk about the plot, which I did find compelling, but this is a character-driven book and not especially fast-paced, so I'll cut right to the chase: Elphaba is awesome. Seriously, she is a fantastic protagonist. She's smart, prickly, idealistic, sarcastic, passionate, solitary, complicated, very human and also deeply messed up (okay, those last two are redundant). She is not nice, and maybe even becomes wicked, but she's one of the few people in this book who can see past the end of her nose, and does she ever pay for it. She makes her own decisions, based on her own sense of right and wrong, without depending on anyone for help or advice. So basically, I love Elphaba, which made for some painful reading, but says a lot about Maguire's characterization. Oh, yeah, almost all of the other characters are good too, even if they can't see past the end of their noses most of the time. People are more complicated than they may initially appear, and have complicated relationships, and are anything but black-and-white. The worldbuilding is also enjoyable; it feels early-20th-century (appropriately enough), which is quite different from your typical fantasy world, and Maguire does a good job of developing the society, especially early in the book. There's a lot of politics, and religion, and social issues, which in itself makes the world feel more real and tangible. In the end, though, Oz is meant to be a reflection of our world, and I found the satire quite well-done and not too heavy-handed. For instance, at first it seemed weird that this is such a brutal world, and yet people either don't notice or don't care.... but wait a minute, that's the point. They're privileged white folks and they don't have to worry about these things. Thematically, much has been made about how this book will "challenge your preconceptions about good and evil"--and it did make me think, although not exactly in the way I expected. After all, if you're old enough to read Wicked, your idea of "evil" is probably not a children's-book villain in a black pointy hat (a white pointy hat would be another story, but that's not a preconception Maguire wants to challenge, and for good reason). And that there are multiple sides to any story shouldn't be challenging either. For me, this book's treatment of good and evil is best summed up by a dinner party scene, where the diners are confronted with a guest who admits to having just murdered an old woman in her bed. They proceed to have a spirited theoretical discussion about the meaning of "evil," and utterly fail to make a moral judgment about the situation at hand, let alone act on it by, say, calling the police. That's the sort of bizarre and, yes, challenging and disturbing material you'll find in this book. As far as the writing style goes, I've seen it called both great and terrible; I personally found it good in a mostly unremarkable way, but recommend that you sample a couple of chapters before you buy. This will also let you see how you feel about the sometimes grotesque imagery, which seems to be what people are generally referring to when they object to the sex in this book--there are very few actual sex scenes. So, why am I not giving 5 stars? The dialogue, while mostly good, didn't always quite ring true. There are some elements I find unconvincing and/or lame: the infamous "I don't know if I had a baby"; minor characters claiming late in the book to have manipulated significant parts of the plot; Fiyero's blandness (personality-wise, he totally fails to live up to his role in the plot, which I think is the point, but still). On the positive side, some elements I found lame in the musical (girls fighting over boys, blah) are absent here. I could keep talking about this book, but you've probably had enough. So here's the condensed version. Avoid this book if: - You're looking for something light, uplifting, or appropriate for kids. - You want lots of action or a fast-paced plot. - You don't want to see real-world politics, religion or social issues reflected in your fantasy novels. You might like this book if: - You're looking for character-driven, adult fantasy. - You appreciated the darker bits of the musical. - You like fantasy that can make you think about real-world issues in a different light. Clearly, it's not for everybody. I'm just glad I finally read it despite all the criticism--even if it did make me cry.

“Holly” by Stephen King is a book I’ve been waiting a very long time to finally read. You see, before “Holly” was officially published on 9/5/23, I went on a Holly-inspired reading marathon so I could jump in and be fully caught up. I’m talking about taking an entire week off of work to enjoy a BOOKcation with everything involving Holly. That’s right ladies and gentlemen, I devoured four novels and an entire short story collection written by King that featured Holly and it was such a rewarding reading experience. Just so you know, to get the most out of “Holly” I highly recommend that you read all five books she is in before reading this novel. The order to read them are… Mr. Mercedes -> Finders Keepers -> End of Watch -> The Outsider -> If It Bleeds -> Holly Now before I jump into my review of this novel, here’s a list of the trigger warnings I found while reading… - Homophobic comments - COVID-19 pandemic - Cannibalism - Politics - Racism - Sexual harassment - Rape - Abortion - Cancer - Alzheimer’s Disease - School shootings If any of these trigger you, please don’t read this novel. One more thing I’d like to mention is my thoughts on how tons of readers hated the heavy use of politics, COVID-19, masking, vaxxing, and all that jazz in this novel to the point of being rude and mean to each other due to differences of opinion. As always, reading is subjective and everyone reads for different reasons. Some like the escapism of novels and want to stay away from anything involving world and political events. Others don’t care at all and welcome it for whatever reason. Some will DNF a novel the moment they see things like that because they completely disagree and get all worked up. Others will enjoy it because they agree with that side of the debate. Whatever the case may be, do whatever makes you happy as long as it’s not at the expense of treating others badly. It’s important to remember that if readers completely disagree with King’s views on politics, masking, vaxxing, etc., it’s okay to stop reading and move on to something else. Just please don’t start attacking your fellow Constant Readers because they agree with him on these kinds of topics or vice versa. We’re all readers at heart with different genres and topics we enjoy so no need to attack or be rude to each other over political differences or how people ultimately feel about COVID, masking, vaccinations, etc. In my opinion, King is 75 years old and will be 76 years old on 9/21/23. The fact that he is still writing novels at such a high level is nothing short of incredible. I’m just glad he is because he will forever be my all-time favorite author. Regardless of how you feel about his own political views and opinions on COVID, masking, vaccinations, etc., if you are a horror reader at one point or other in your life he probably gave you at least one character or book you enjoyed based on something he wrote. He’s been writing for over 50 years now and is still going strong. These trigger warnings I mentioned above don’t bother me at all since they’re just words on paper to me. Remember my friends, be kind to each other, no matter where you stand on these political and COVID topics. Whether you agree or disagree, just treat each other with kindness. Trust me, it truly goes a very long way in life. Anywho, I loved this novel so much, and depending on how the rest of this year goes, “Holly” might very well end up being my favorite book of 2023. It was that extraordinary to me and just like the other novels featuring Holly, King did a wonderful job weaving a story within a story within a story with tons of little subtle references here and there. Everything from The Princess Bride, Blood Red Sky (I loved this movie on Netflix), Freddy Krueger, Carrie (lost my mind when he did this), and even The Haunting of Hill House all made me smile. I love it when King does things like this, especially with his own legendary work. The intro to “Holly” was a wild one and my goodness, King dialed up the horror with a very gross twist to things in this one. I made lots of weird faces with those insanely descriptive situations. In general, I was so happy to see Holly get her own novel and not only see what she’s been up to lately but also how she has evolved in the grand scheme of things. To finally get more of Holly’s backstory and fill in the gaps to what makes her tick was such a great thing to read. I have connected with Holly way before this novel came out and reading this solidified to me that she’s a rockstar. I just love the kind of person she is, how vulnerable she can be depending on what is going on at the moment, and just how she figures things out over time. Seeing Holly continuing to be Holly as she pieced things together in this horror mystery novel was a lot of fun. The suspense is all throughout this novel and besides Holly, I also enjoyed how King was able to include Jerome and his sister Barbara to also get updates on them which was nice to read. This is a big reason why I highly recommend reading those five novels I mentioned above since it’ll just make it more meaningful. Besides this incredible unique and disturbing story, King did a phenomenal job breaking down an underlying tone to “Holly” that was evident all throughout this novel. Seeing Holly process grief due to what she’s going through was engrossing. Everyone handles grief differently but to see such a complex and riveting character as Holly goes through this on top of trying to figure out what she’s investigating was nothing short of brilliance. It goes to show that no matter how strong, weird, or complicated someone is on the outside, grief like that affects everyone to some degree even as they vehemently deny it on the inside. Don’t worry, I won’t ruin anything for you but I just loved seeing Holly turn into the person she is now. Not only am I impressed but well, proud. I know that’ll sound weird but I literally went through a five-novel journey reading them all in a single week and feel like I know Holly. Even King said in recent interviews promoting this novel that there is a bit of Holly in him and well, everyone. I also feel the same as I’ve seen some of my tendencies of handling things as Holly would which makes her so relatable to me. Another thing I loved is how the presence of Bill Hodges so many moons ago impacted Holly so much that it is still helping her in the present. I swear, the quote that King put to open up this novel (“Sometimes the universe throws you a rope.” - Bill Hodges) just hits you from beginning to end. Speaking of which, my goodness, the climax to the ending was fantastic! The main antagonists in this one were pure evil and I loved how Holly handled everything in stride towards that stupendous ending. I was on the edge of my seat getting through that ending because I didn’t think that would ever happen and to see Holly do what she did totally made me scream YES!!! so many times in my head because it was so epic. It was quite the buildup and everything ended perfectly. I loved the ending, actually. Mainly because it ended the way it should have when it comes to Holly and the kind of character she has now become. As always with anything I read by King, I was left mesmerized as Holly is now one of my all-time favorite characters he’s ever created. I give “Holly” by Stephen King a 5/5 as it was so worth reading all five novels Holly was in before this one was published to enjoy watching her evolve into the person she is now. The horror, creepiness, and disturbing aspects of this novel were bloody magnificent. It probably isn’t a good idea to eat or drink anything while reading this one but at the end of it all, Holly rocks. I’m so glad King decided to give this influential character her own novel because this has been quite the reading journey I will never forget for the rest of my life. Finally, the last little thing King left me with besides all this awesomeness involving Holly is that I will never look at vanilla ice cream the same again. Ever.

BREAKING: outspokenly liberal author Stephen King pens a novel about COVID and takes jabs at Trump’s inadequate handling of the crisis. King has NEVER mentioned politics in his books before, and I am outraged! How dare he cover a time period (2020-2021) in which politics was everything and everywhere all at once and actually mention *gasp* Trump by name! Not to mention the vaccines and mandates! (Seriously, the 1-star reviews on Amazon are fucking gold. Since when has politics NOT seeped into King’s fiction? It’s been there since ’Salem’s Lot, at least. I have no love or patience for those “offended moderates” who just want to escape the “real world” into … an art form that often reflects the real world? Because authors are real people living in the real world? The math ain’t mathin’.) And fuck it, I love Holly. The character and the novel. King’s caught some crap lately for his output, especially the crime stuff, and that’s valid. I get why it isn’t for everyone. But I love it, it’s always a fun ass time. I didn’t expect this one to get as dark as it does, sitting very comfortably with one foot in the crime-mystery genre and the other in the horror genre. This book even gave me a few bad dreams, something not all (or even many) of SK’s other releases have done. I won’t go into specifics because spoilers, but yeah, if you’ve liked Holly’s previous adventures you’ll like this too. Reading the Hodges trilogy, The Outsider, and “If It Bleeds” is necessary. Otherwise you’ll be as lost as I was when I tried reading Insomnia before the Dark Tower series. (That’s a hint at what I’m about to reread with my best friend.) King still has it. And it’s OK to love his new releases.

Oh, buckle up for the triumphant return of Holly Gibney, Stephen King's ingenious detective, in this chilling novel that dives deep into a midwestern town's sinister secrets. In "Holly," King weaves a masterful tale, throwing readers headfirst into a horror-laden journey. The suspense is palpable, the twists are stomach-churning, and my goodness, did he amp up the horror with some seriously gross twists. But let's talk about Holly. Finally, our beloved recluse turned detective gets her own spotlight, and it's a wild ride. King peels back the layers of Holly's character, delving into her backstory and evolution, and it's an absolute joy to witness. Holly, with her vulnerabilities and uncanny ability to piece things together, shines as the star of this horror mystery. The suspense keeps you on the edge, and the inclusion of familiar faces like Jerome and Barbara adds a layer of depth that fans will appreciate. King's storytelling prowess doesn't just stop at crafting a unique and disturbing narrative; he brilliantly delves into an underlying theme — grief. Watching Holly grapple with her emotions while navigating a twisted investigation is nothing short of brilliance. And let's not forget the impact of Bill Hodges. The quote that kicks off the novel The climax to the ending is nothing short of fantastic, with pure evil antagonists and Holly's epic handling of the situation. I was on the edge of my seat, screaming "YES!!!" in my head. The ending is spot-on, reflecting the growth and strength of Holly's character. Now, for the naysayers bringing politics into the mix—come on! King has always infused his fiction with real-world elements, and "Holly" is no exception. As for me, I love Holly, the character, and the novel. King effortlessly straddles the crime-mystery and horror genres, delivering a dark narrative that even invaded my dreams. If you've enjoyed Holly's previous adventures, this one's a must-read. And here's a gentle reminder to heed the trigger warnings: homophobic comments, the COVID-19 pandemic, politics, racism, rape, abortion, Alzheimer’s Disease, school shootings etc. Holly's journey, post her mom's COVID-related demise, is gripping, and King excels at writing crime at its best. For the full experience, dive into the Mr. Mercedes trilogy and "The Outsider" before embarking on this enthralling journey. The villains may be elderly professors, but the depth of their crimes will leave you horrified and saying plenty of genuine "ewwwwws." Holly has nestled her way deep into my heart, and I'm crossing my fingers that this isn't the last we've seen of her. In the realm of King's new releases, this one is a winner. Follow me on medium.com to read my articles about books, movies, streaming series, astrology: medium blog instagram facebook twitter

Being a fan of Stephen King's novels, I know he doesn't always include supernatural characters in his stories. Nevertheless, I loved Holly's novel and I can only hope it won't be the last time we hear from her. I haven't read the previous five books of the series, but Holly works perfectly well on its own and now I'm in need of getting to know how she came to being. I loved the story for what it is, and not because of the political or health views it has in it. I think that would be the wrong way of rating this novel. Holly is a private investigator who's recently lost her mother to Covid, and although she's really far from properly grieving over her, she receives a call from Penny Dahl, a woman whose daughter recently went missing, and who can only hope for Holly's willingness to take the case to help her find out what happened to her. Although a bit reluctantly, Holly takes the case only to find out that Bonnie's (Penny's daughter) disappearance may be linked to some other disappearances that somehow lead all to the Harris (Rodney and Emily). Why and how would they be linked to all this? Holly isn't sure, but her curiosity and her investigative skills might help her unveil some facts that she may later regret knowing. As usual, it seems that the only possible way to find out is by getting immersed into Holly's world. This is perhaps (in my view) one of the best books I've read this year.

reading vlog: https://youtu.be/fod4rfv-qz4 pls no judgement for giving steve 5 stars haha but this was so readable and exactly what I needed in the moment! the first book i've read this year I was genuinely excited to read quickly

I absolutely loved the premise of this, people disappearing without a trace, with an apparently harmless old couple at the centre of it all. What a great pair of unlikely villains, genius! Some reviewers haven't taken kindly to all the COVID content here (and yes, there is a lot) but it's set during the pandemic so it's to be expected. Also Holly is not only a germaphobe but an absolute stickler for rules so of course she's going to be a mask wearer and elbow bumper, not sure why some folk get hung up on all that, after all that's how it was, in everyone's thoughts, conversations and dominating the news etc. So I guess if mention of vaccines, masks, social distancing and other COVID shenanigans gets you frothing at the mouth, maybe give this one a miss. For me it was a cracking read with excellent pacing, the story didn't lag once, kinda funny, kinda gruesome and it was good to visit with Holly again. Oh and I can't end without mentioning that gorgeous cover, a thing of beauty 😍. 5 shiny stars.

This is an incredible read for all but the squeamish. King’s style of shock value has not lost any ground. I know controversy follows this book. I feel that King used COVID and politics as a setting, not to promote a furtive agenda. I experienced this period of history as a critical care transport nurse so I do not find this reference to be a stumbling block I have to hurdle to enjoy this book. And enjoy this book I did!!! I went into binge reading mode during the last third of the book, losing sleep in the process. Would I recommend this read …. Oh Yeah!!!

This was a fracking great story! The King of Horror is now nailing it as The King of Crime Thrillers too.

ARC provided by Edelweiss. All opinions are my own. I'm a long time Stephen King fan/ constant reader so I'm far more likely to rate one of his book five stars than not, simply because I enjoy both his writing and his storytelling. If I was being very critical, I could argue that this was more of a 4 star book in comparison with many of his other books (what else can you compare SK to except himself?) However, I was absolutely gripped by the story and I really enjoyed reading it so why split hairs. Holly Gibney has become one of my favourite King characters. I've followed her through the Finders Keepers trilogy, the Outside and If it Bleeds. I was thrilled when I saw she was getting a full length novel in her own right. Although I was also wary since I know no one is actually safe in Mr King's hands. And there were several points in this book where it seemed my fears would bear out and this would be the last book we would ever see Holly in... In many ways this is a quieter book than many of King's novels. I'll admit that I kept waiting for the supernatural to creep in but then that wasn't the point of this story. This was about human evil and how it often wears a mild and unremarkable face, so you overlook all the tiny tells which inform you that something is off. In some respects this taps into the fairy tale theme of appearances can be deceiving. I don't want to include spoilers but watching Holly break down the case and follow the scraps of information to create a trail was masterful. The dual narrative that gradually unravels what's going on is subtle and disturbing in its horror. As in I gobbled this up (pun intended) with macabre glee an then had weird thoughts about the story at 3am. It's noticeable that King's prose has less of the shock-horror pyrotechnics of his younger days but if anything his prose and careful, powerful language choice is more assured than ever. I know many SK fans would like him to just drop a splashy horror again (and I am not averse to that) but I'm actually really enjoying these quieter, self contained character pieces too. Over all this was a great King novel. Compulsively readable and disquieting.

Definitely one of my favorite SK books so far. “Holly” uncovered a new love for me with getting to know this character that SK himself adores. Holly Gibney is featured in various books, but “Holly” is her first major story. This book was hard for me to put down and I loved getting to know her. It’s a fantastic disturbing read with a twisty story. Completing this book introduced me to read the Bill Hodges trilogy and the other stories Holly is featured in, which I highly recommend!

Hot damn! Is there ANYTHING Uncle Stevie canNOT turn into a horror novel (with or without a supernatural element)?! Holly, the now boss of "Finders Keepers" and successful PI, is hired by the mother of a young woman that has been missing for a while since the police are no help. But it's the middle of the pandemic so things are all a little ... skewed ... and Holly doesn't have her full team to help her either. This is made all the more dangerous when considering who her adversaries are this time. Not gonna spoiler more, but whether or not there is a supernatural element doesn't really matter with Uncle Stevie on the job. The meticulous modus operandi and veritable depravity were flabbergasting. However, as usual, it was more than the actual adversaries that made me shudder while reading this story: everyone had something to hide and many people were just so ... mean. A very mundane word nevertheless describing perfectly what is wrong with so many people. Prideful stupidity supposed to mask inadequacy but really only highlighting it and just how bad some people are. As fans know, the most shudder-inducing aspect of any SK story is not the fictitious part but the real-life cruelty humans are capable of. From the casual cruelty of on-the-fly comments to emotional abuse to physical violence. And don't get me started on how sick so many people are (about everything from religion to "race" to nutrition to sexuality or younameit). Of course, then there is the shock of actual (view spoiler). That was very nicely done although I was a bit puzzled that we had gotten so much information from the get-go. Believe me, though: it didn't mar my enjoyment at all and it didn't reduce the suspense either. The unease is as much part of the story as punctuation. A little preventive message to anyone reading this: If you're part of the host of Karens trying to denounce Stephen King for having included comments on Covid and Trump, don't bother spewing your nonsense here. I'm vaxxed, I can personally attest to Covid not being like any other flu, Trump is so inadequate (regarding EVERYTHING) that he deserves nothing BUT ridicule, and I will simply delete your comments and not give you any floor for your tantrums. Also: grow up. Funny how you call others snowflakes when it is you yourself who acts the most like one. There. Now back to the book. As you can tell from the disclaimer above, there has been a rabid response to this book. People have down-rated it, maybe even without having read it. I don't know and I don't care. I have read the book and can tell you that it is my second-favorite of the modern ones (the favorite being The Outsider). Now, that doesn't mean too much considering the quality of SK's writing, but it might give you a good idea. Detailed, suspenseful, highly atmospheric, with fantastic characters and great worldbuilding.

Phenom. Can’t wait for the next installment

"Just when you think you've seen the worst human beings have to offer, you find out you're wrong. There is no end to evil." Some characters and settings in a story are the equivalent of a cozy blanket, that is what this book felt like to me. Comforting, yet horrifying in equal measure. Be forewarned....If you think you've seen some outlandish dietary plans, just wait till you meet Emily and Rodney Harris.

⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ In Holly, the master of horror returns to his signature blend of psychological horror and suspense, crafting a chilling narrative that delves into the complexities of evil and the human psyche. The story centers around Holly Gibney, our beloved character (please Steve, don´t kill her in the next book 😭) As Holly embarks on a perilous investigation, the narrative unfolds with a palpable sense of dread, revealing the dark underbelly of society and the insidious nature of obsession. The villain is meticulously crafted, embodying the kind of malevolence that lingers long after the last page is turned. Personally, I give a fuck people who said that this is one of the most political expose from our dear author. Guys, every speech, story, book, and narrative has political involvement, and COVID was (is?) a perfect trigger to express a lot of shit, so, this is a book and not a campaign declamation. Whatever. What sets Holly apart is King’s exploration of trauma and resilience. The characters are deeply flawed yet relatable, each battling their own demons while confronting an external horror that threatens their very existence. King masterfully intertwines personal struggles with the overarching narrative, offering a poignant commentary on the darkness that resides within us all. As the tension mounts, the story becomes a relentless descent into fear, leaving readers breathless and haunted. King’s ability to evoke dread and empathy simultaneously is a testament to his mastery of the genre. Anyway, this is a harrowing tale that explores the depths of evil and the strength of the human spirit, Holly is a gripping and unsettling read that will resonate with fans of King’s darker works. Long live the King!!

4.5 stars The Bill Hodges triology is one of my favourite things King has ever written. Holly is one of the main reasons why I love that series so much. So when I found out she was getting her own full-length novel, I couldn't have been more excited. Was I disappointed? Definitely not! Holly is a grizzly, dark detective novel. It's tight, it's compelling, and it's too the point. The opening chapter had me hooked from the very first word. I very much enjoyed delving deeper into Holly's character and her wider relationships. Does she still have her quirks? Absolutely, but I don't find these as annoying as other people seem to. The plot of this book is excellent. It's a true classic detective story with a brutally gripping storyline that hooked me until the dramatic close. The only reason I couldn't give this book a full five-star rating was because of covid. While I totally understand King's reasoning to set this book during the pandemic, I found the references tiresome and didn't find they contributed a lot to the overall story. Nonetheless, this book has lots of classic Kingisms, which constant readers will no doubt be on the hunt for. For existing Holly fans, this book will definitely delight and hopefully be able to convert a few Holly naysayers, too. Highly recommend.

Holly, Stephen King When I heard that Stephen King was writing a book about Holly I was so excited. Readers of his Mr Mercedes trilogy, The Outsider and Let It Bleed, will have been following along with Holly Gibney’s journey, from a woman who lived at home with her mother and was scared of the outside world, to a woman who is now running a successful business, pretty much on her own. In Holly, we learn so much more about this much loved character. She is loving through a pandemic, which is causing her no end of anxiety with masks, shaking hand and sanitiser. She has just lost her mother, with whom she had a very complicated relationship. Her business partner, Pete is out with Covid and she is grieving. She needs something to take her mind off her mother and what she learns after her death. So she takes in a missing persons case. What at first looks to be a simple case, turns into anything but easy. One missing person leads Holly to discover many others, all with similar stories. Of course it is dangerous, but Holly beat Brady Hartsfield, she can do anything. Ok, King fans, this is dark and seriously messed up. It was stomach churning at times, everything that we have come to expect from this author. If you are not ready for a book set smack bang in the middle of the pandemic, give this a miss. There is a lot of Covid talk, a lot of political talk. For me, it fit with the story and didn’t bother me. Each to their own. I loved that we also saw Jerome and Barbara back again, getting on with their lives after the horrific events in If It Bleeds. The combination of these 3 characters working together made me smile. It was just so nice to back in this world again and I hope that the author will continue to give up more in the future. A massive thank you to Hachette Australia for sending me this book. It was one that I started straight away and took my time with. Throughly enjoyed it. Holly is out now.

I’m just gonna say it: Stephen King’s “Holly” is the best damn novel I’ve read this year, and I’ve read some damn good ones. It took a few months of being on a waiting list at the library to finally get it, and when I did, I think I literally devoured the thing in two days. It’s that frickin’ good. Holly Gibney has quickly become my new favorite detective and, I daresay, my first ever literary crush. I’ll be honest: I used to chuckle and roll my eyes when I’d read about my fellow Goodreads friends crushing on a character in a book. I mean, I’ve become emotionally invested in a lot of characters over the years, but I don’t think I could honestly say that I’ve crushed on one. Until now. Holly is a badass. She’s also funny, super-smart, socially awkward, and vulnerable as hell. It’s also been fun to see her character evolve, from the timid neighbor in “Mr. Mercedes” with no confidence, to the brilliant Sherlock-Holmesian detective of “The Outsider”. In “Holly”, she has a lot of stuff going on in her life. Her mother just recently passed away, and she has conflicting feelings about it, because while she loved her mom, they didn’t always get along. When the estate lawyer drops a bombshell on her, Holly is forced to see her mother in a new light, and it’s not necessarily a good one. It’s also deep into the pandemic, July 2021. Covid-19 has taken the lives of several people she knows (her mom being one), and her partner at the Finders Keepers Detective Agency, Pete, is sick in the hospital with it, despite being double-vaxed. Living through the pandemic has been tough on Holly—-a germaphobe long before it was cool—-but she’s managed to endure. And thrive. She’s finding out that she’s tougher than she ever thought, which is good, considering her new case. The mother of a young girl who has gone missing hires Holly to find her. Not a lot of clues, but Holly is good at seeing things other people miss. After just a few days of digging, Holly suspects that she may have stumbled on to a serial killer in her own neighborhood. She has, but they are not at all what she—-nor the reader—-expects. I can’t in good conscience say more. I can say that I’m well aware of all the whiny bitching people have made over this book, and here’s my two cents: If you believe that the pandemic is a hoax, you are a fucking moron. If you are an anti-vaxxer, you are a fucking moron. If you are of the belief that the shutdowns, masks, hand-sanitizing, social distancing, and all the other inconvenient stuff that we had to endure during the last three years were a personal affront, worthless, or a violation of your civil liberties, YOU ARE A FUCKING MORON. Okay, I’ve said my peace. (It’s been building for a couple years now.) Thanks for letting me vent…

I absolutely loved reading this and I've loved Holly since the beginning. Which for me was The Outsider because I accidentally read that first having no knowledge of the Bill Hodges trilogy. I was less enamored with Holly this time around and I felt a little sad about it. I think this has to do with being so familiar with her and all her eccentricities over the previous five stories with her as a character. I still really enjoyed reading this one! Jerome and Barbara were awesome as always! The two villains were evil and detestable. I thought King did a great job with them! I've seen so many readers bitching and moaning about all the COVID and BLM stuff. None of that bothered me at all! I didn't feel like it took anything away from the story. This was written during the height of all that so of course it's going to play a part in the overall story. I always say this and it bears repeating here: why become an author if not to write and say whatever the hell you want?! I know I would if I was an author. Overall I thought this was a great story! It was suspenseful and thrilling especially towards the end. Holly was a total badass as always. It's impossible not to root for her and impossible not to love her! Maybe we'll get to see her again before it's all said and done!

4.5 ⭐️s My second time through the Hodges | Gibney series and this is still a standout entry. These books have gotten me through a particularly difficult time in my life this time around and I am so thankful that they exist. For that reason, this becomes a somewhat flawed review because I am biased towards the value they hold in my life. Sure, they aren’t perfect, and this has as many flaws as any other book in this series, but damn do I love them. Why You Should Or Shouldn’t Read It You should. It’s weird. It’s fun. It’s gross. It’s just a good procedural, detective story, choosing to leave behind some of the supernatural elements that started to drag down some of the middle portion of the series to me. So that was a welcome return to good ol’ crime noire type of storytelling Themes There is no end to evil. It comes in all forms and from all sources One Thing That Will Stick With Me Parfaits

Five star all the way … loved every page of this was hooked and a nice easy read though not quite as nice due to Covid, abductions and cannibalism but this is what Stephen king is a master for highly recommend this book and so glad it won awards last year

For whatever reason, I've missed the last couple of books in the Scot Harvath series - as in did not read. Not long after I started this one, I realized I've missed them like I miss long-lost friends. As Celine Dion sang, "It's all coming back to me now" - and I've vowed not to make the same mistake going forward. What that boils down to, in book review terms, is that I absolutely loved this one. Maybe it's because I saw a less gung-ho, more circumspect Harvath, still reeling from events that happened in previous books. There was plenty of action, but it didn't seem as rough as usual, and I sensed that Harvath's heart wasn't really in it. Besides that, the author's sometimes lengthy diatribes against some issue or other were noticeable to me in their absence. Quite honestly, all that made this book more interesting to me, but I'll venture a guess that die-hard fans might not be quite as enthusiastic. My husband - also a fan of this series - just started reading this one, and I'll be interested to get his take. As it begins, Harvath is drowning himself in his sorrows (more accurately, in substantial quantities of alcohol) in Key West when he gets bad news; a beloved colleague has been tortured and murdered. The news gets even worse: apparently, someone is offering an almost unbelievably high bounty on his own head - to be paid to the first player to achieve success. Over his years working for the Carleton Group, which functions as a more clandestine CIA, Harvath has accumulated no shortage of enemies. But is it possible that the two bad news scenarios are somehow connected? Enter beautiful and well-skilled Norwegian agent Solvi Kolstad, also a protogee of Harvath's murdered colleague and an intelligence agent, who is on the warpath to find the man's killer. What's more, she wants to hook up with Harvath and put their heads together (with a hint that a few other body parts might be shared as well somewhere down the line). The trick, you see, will be ferreting out the colleague's murderer (and, depending on who that is, who ordered the hit) while avoiding the bounty hunters who will do almost anything to snuff out Harvath for good. The sometimes bloody trail takes him and Solvi to a few countries and a few narrow escapes and culminates, I must say, in an ending that's satisfying to some characters but not to others. The conclusion to my review is a non-conclusion; I have no idea from whence my copy came. Most of the books I read I get as advance review copies from publishers via NetGalley, but this one - a hardcover edition - simply showed up in the mail with no accompanying documentation. I have a vague recollection of entering some kind of giveaway - possibly from Bookish First - but thus far I haven't been able to confirm it. So for now, all I can say is whoever you are, I thank you very much.

I had an amazing opportunity to read an early copy of Brad Thor's next Scot Harvath release scheduled for July '20, NEAR DARK. I've read every book since Lions of Lucerne and developed into a HUGE Thor fan. At this point in Brad's career, he's in the enviable position where just about anything he writes will be received by an eager, paying crowd. At the risk of guessing a writer of his position might sooner or later fall into a pattern of repetition and 'call one in', I would be dead wrong. His novels continue to evolve and improve with each release. Hard to imagine NEAR DARK could improve on last summers smash hit, BACKLASH. But it does. What Brad does this time is put you directly in the agony of Harvath's existence--the loss of so many loved ones in his inner circle crushes the will of existence for one of the toughest men ever to grace the pages of a novel. You see him at rock bottom; you turn pages begging him to find the will and resolve to pick up the pieces. Scot Harvath is at his true breaking point, and you know why. For me, this book shows what a master storyteller is capable of when they want you to 'feel' the emotions of the protagonist. Without experiencing Harvath's trauma myself in the real world, I've never been so close to a fictional character's agony. I have no doubt you'll feel the emotion of this book like never before in a Brad Thor tale. Buy it.

Another hit it out of the park. Brad Thor keeps providing he is at the top of his game. Such an amazing tale full of suspense, drama and a simple love story. Scot Havarth is still someone you do not want to mess with. Liked how Brad showed this side of Scot and how he dealt with some of his ghost. I also enjoyed how Brad gives that quick back brief on some of the characters he uses to keep new read and returning readers up on his characters and how they fit into the storyline. Not a dull moment in the story. It’s a must read for everyone.

After a few weeks of “experimental” reading excursions, meaning “new to me writers”, I returned to one of my tried and true authors, BRAD THOR. Book number 20 in his Scot Harvath series is NEAR DARK. What a terrific writer of spy thrillers! Thanks for the great entertainment. In this story, which picks up right after book 19 (BACKLASH), Scot is suffering from a horrific personal loss. He has retreated to a luxury resort near Key West in southern Florida in the United States. He is drinking alcoholic beverages like there is no tomorrow. That is no exaggeration. If you read BACKLASH, you can understand his mental state. If you have not read the previous story, you probably should do so before you start this one. Harvath works for a private intelligence gathering company after many years of government employment including the U.S. Navy SEALS, the U.S. Secret Service and the C.I.A. As the story unfolds, Scot is drinking in a dive bar in Key West when two bums start to harass the female bartender. That action upsets Scot and he invites them “to step outside” with him. They do. A fight breaks out. A third man shows up with a gun and is about to shoot Harvath. A shot rings out. The would be gunman collapses. Dead. Scot’s team of Haney, Staelin, Palmer and Ashby have come to the rescue. They are there because it has come to his company’s attention that a contract for $100 million has been issued for Harvath’s death. His team also informs Scot that his good friend Carl Pedersen of the Norwegian Intelligence Service (NIS) has been tortured and killed. Carl had worked with Scot on a couple of cases. This is another blow to his collapsing psyche. Scot flies to Norway on a company jet where he meets Solvi Kostad an N.I.S. officer who was also close to Pedersen. The two team up together to find out who tortured/killed Carl and to find out who is trying to kill Scot. There are plenty of suspects including Filip Landsbergis, a high-ranking member of Lithuania’s State Security Department (VSI), who has also worked with Scot. Nikolai Nekrasov is a billionaire Russian oligarch who lives in southern France near Nice who has a grudge against Harvath. Andriejus Simulik head of VIS is another suspect. Paul Aubertin, born Michael Collins McElhone in Ireland, is a former French Foreign Legion operative, and is now a paid assassin. As mentioned earlier Harvath’s journey takes him to Key West and then to Boston, Oslo, Lake Garda (Italy), Lithuania and Mont St. Michel near Normandy (France). As typical of Brad Thor stories, there is plenty of action with a hint of romance. The book is fast paced and should be a quick read for most readers. This a perfect read for those people who have quarantined themselves during COVID 19 Pandemic. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! GO! BUY! READ!

Scot Harvath has a problem. Someone wants him dead; badly enough to put a 100 million bounty out on him. The book follows this main storyline, with a couple diversions. Harvath develops a drinking problem and this takes up a good portion of the narrative. He gets to work side by side with a Norwegian operative named Solvi. They end up good friends and maybe a bit more than friends. If you want the details, you'll have to pick up the book and discover what a great thriller writer Brad Thor actually is. Overall, a very good book.

Wow, just Wow!! How in the world could Brad Thor out do himself again. I thought he was at the top of his game when he wrote, Backlash, but i was wrong. Near Dark is even better and keeps the thriller genre on the edge of the seat waiting to see how Thor can out do himself again. Near Dark almost read as a Swan Song for Scot Harveth but I believe it is a new beginning and even better things to come. With a huge cast of characters from Harvaths past it really brought all 20 books together! With some Younger members of the team getting more action and a great new "partner" for Scot. The future and the sky is the limit.!!!

Near Dark was a very impactful follow up to Backlash. After the events of the previous book we start with Harvath at rock bottom trying to drink away all of his devastating losses. Little does he know that there is a massive bounty taken out on him by someone and put to a pool of assassins to whichever can get to him first. Once he gets caught up with all he has missed since going off on his own and with what they’ve been able to find out about the bounty nothing will stop him from getting to the bottom of it before someone else gets him before he can get payback. He eventually goes to work at dismantling who is involved one by one, all the while making sure his remaining family is well taken care of. Soon after he starts on his mission he meets NIS operative Sølvi Kolstad. They realize very quickly that they are after the same certain person and team up to get him and answers. While getting to him is only part of Harvath’s goal, it is all Sølvi is after for personal reasons. Sølvi is a very lethal and and focused on getting what she needs to done. She is also very to the point and doesn’t play games with anyone. She made a very worthy ally to Harvath, and it was fun to read the banter between the two. They had a fantastic chemistry that really made the story. I was really glad to see how healing their partnership was for Harvath after all the trauma he has recently been through. I really enjoyed the fast paced storyline, brutal action sequences, and characters that feel completely real. While the ending was wrapped up a bit quickly, I am looking forward to reading what is coming next for Harvath and his team and hopefully getting more into that ending! Overall it turned out to be one of my favorite Brad Thor novels and I enjoyed every moment.

An excellent read, as always keeps you on your toes.

Very well done. Brad Thor did not disappoint. Lots of intrigue and twists as well as taking you to interesting places that I now want to visit!

My one word to describe this book would have to be “retribution”. In Near Dark, we have the continuation of a, thus far, three book story arc. In the first of this arc, we have the mission that leads to the pandemonium to come; the second, we have the hunt, and the beginning of the spiral; and in this book, Harvath has the backing of his team, and is out for retribution. We get the introduction of a kickass character in this installment! With a very similar flawed background as Harvath, hopefully this could be a teaming of the ages. I can’t recommend this book enough!

Brad Thor’s NEAR DARK is viewed by many as the third book of a trilogy written by Thor, placing Scot Harvath in the position of weighing his future, both personal and professional. It began with SPYMASTER, where a mature, seasoned, professional intelligence operative, Scot Harvath, looks to his future and decisions he has side stepped over the last couple of years. His body is showing the wear and tear of someone pushing into several decades of espionage work. How much more can his body take is the question that sits in the back of his mind. What of Lara and her son Marco that Harvath has come to love deeply? Then there is his mentor, boss, friend, Reed Carleton,slipping into dementia’s abyss, a man who groomed Harvath to take up the reins of running his company along with Lydia Ryan. Harvath, never one for indecision, finds himself traveling to New England to marry Lara at the secluded haven of Reed with dearest friend and colleague Lydia Ryan as witness. SPYMASTER leaves us with a cliff hanger of dead bodies and a missing Harvath. BACKLASH, the second book of the trilogy finds a kidnapped, physically injured, mentally and emotionally traumatized Scot Harvath being hauled off to Siberia as so much Russian freight to be tortured and pried loose of all his secrets, both of US intelligence agencies and that of Allies overseas who have always stood at Harvath’s back. A freak blizzard by Mother Nature crashes the plane in Arctic regions leaving Harvath in a visceral struggle to survive against nature’s viciousness, attacks by enraged Russian special ops military, and holding the slim sliver of hope that his trusted posse of Chase, Mike,Tyler,Sloane, and Nicholas could find him in the backwaters of the Finland-Russian Border. NEAR DARK, the third of the trilogy opens with a numb, traumatized, despairing Scot Harvath seeking ANYTHING to stop the pain of loss, the loss of those dearest to him, personally and professionally and an uncertain future. It opens with Scot seeking solace and pain relief in the bottom of a bottle. After all, alcohol has been man’s coping remedy for pain for thousands of years. But alcohol makes one careless and arrogant. And Harvath almost gets his wish to see and hold Lara again. It’s so good to have trusted friends at your back. But a stuporous Harvath is not a risk that the Intell community can ignore, especially with a massive price on his head. Scot’s rescue from the jaws of death comes at a price. He learns of another death laid at his feet. A Norwegian intell peer, friend and colleague who is found tortured to death and authorities ascertain the death of Carl Pedersen is tied to a large reward for the death of Harvath. The scramble is on to locate,secure,and haul him back to Washington,DC. Once there, a semi-sobered Harvath meets with the one man who has had his back over the years, knows him like family, has shared his joy and his pain - Nicholas. The man who stepped into the breach, ran Carleton Group in the absence of its destroyed and missing leadership and who has a personal share in the future of the world’s leading intelligence security agency. Nicholas is family, so he doesn’t mince words. He lays all the cards on the table. Harvath needs to get his act together or go to ground as there is a $100Million reward on his head. The two of them must decide the future of Carleton Group here and now,and how to proceed comes into question. Harvath has a choice, climb out of the alcohol soaked abyss and resolve the issue of the murder and who is behind the massive reward of the assassination plot or look at permanent seclusion. So many people rely on Scot Harvath at the moment for their livelihood, his decision making,and leadership. He feels guilt over the deaths and his refusal to take over the helm of the company, but with Nicholas’s pending fatherhood, the guilt intensifies, he accepts fate and acquiesces to the return into the world of espionage. The question remains is he mentally, emotionally, and physically functioning well enough to handle this latest challenge. Where does he begin? Who is behind it all? Those answers lie overseas with the investigation of the death of Carl Pedersen and a commonality, the introduction of possibly new partner-Solvi Kolstad. Like other thriller authors, Brad Thor has turned to examining the inner thoughts, feelings, and beliefs of this hardened, seasoned professional. What makes him tick. What is his limit for mental and emotional torture and added physical abuse. What parts of his psyche and belief system enable him to survive in Nature’s Hell. He indirectly examines nuances of leadership and how they drive a person onward, forward, to resolve a conflict or problem. What is the role of family, loyalty, and country in decision making. The reader finishes the book with a much better defined persona of Scot Harvath. You leave with a clear image of this new female, the mirrored image of Harvath and exciting new possibilities for the future. There are plenty of the fistfights and weaponry that everyone loves in a Harvath novel. But in this one, and this trilogy, Thor does the stretch and embraces the character fully, he delivers a more robust knowledge of the man, what drives him and what could lie in the future. This is the path that Thor has created. The one that leads to a split in the trail. The question of where Brad Thor takes the Scot Harvath series. What new journey awaits? Is it a merging of Nicholas’s brilliant management and IT,logistical skills,coupled with Scot’s intelligence and on the ground operational knowledge and operator skills? Do they work together as partners,a team in the Carleton Group? Is a third party introduced to actually handle the CEO responsibilities and day to day operations? What happens to the company? Will it continue to hold the prestige of one of the world’s best intelligence operations? Meanwhile, Harvath sets out on a quest to exact revenge and track his suspected assassins. The body count starts as he joins forces with Solvi Kolstad to avenge the death of their mutual friend Carl Pedersen in tracking down the bounty hunter and the money behind the hit in some of the most noteworthy tourist spots in the world. Key West, Washington DC, Oslo, Norway, France’s Mont-Saint-Michel and Normandy, Basel,Switzerland. And one by one Harvath and his posse track down the ultimate money source. A slight quirk, but indeed the Russians will rue the day they decided to take on Scot Harvath. Our story wraps with our man contemplating a summer in Norway with his stepson Marco. And he leaves the door open to explore new possibilities with his mirror image. Thor has explored in this trilogy what the deepest, darkest thoughts of man are in a slide into the abyss. It also examined how a strong, focused intelligence operator faces the most traumatic events in anyone’s lifetime, and how Scot Harvath survived. That survival of the worst made him mentally, emotionally stronger and opens a myriad of directions for Harvath in the intelligence field of Carleton Group. NEAR DARK concludes with a look toward the future, a future that only the author’s creative mind can determine,in the direction of Scot Harvath’s next role and the series future. We look forward to that next adventure. It’s been one hell of a ride so far! Hope there are 20 years more! NEAR DARK is a superb finish to this trilogy! KUDOS!!

This was my 19th novel in the Scot Harvath series by Brad Thor, and the 20th overall. I have now read all 20 Brad Thor books. I wonder how many more in India have done that? For those who have not read Scot Harvath novels, his chronological career bio is: ● U.S. national ski team member ● U.S. Navy SEAL (Team 2 and then Team 6) ● Senior White House Secret Service Agent ● Covert government-sponsored operative working in a fictional off-books unit created by a former fictional U.S. President himself, whose mission is to save America and Americans from the most deadly terrorists, and to do 'whatever is necessary' in order to achieve his mission. In other words, a covert government-sponsored assassin who does not exist on paper. ● A new President who is 'soft' on terror disbands the unit and Scot Harvath now basically does the same job, but as an employee of "The Carlton Group" (TCC), a private intelligence/security government contractor set up by former senior CIA officer Carlton Reed. TCC takes up the most dangerous missions from the U.S. President, the Department of Defense, the CIA, and for private clients. And Scot Harvath is TCC's main operative. In the previous novel "Backlash", Carlton Reed, TCC's CEO Lydia Ryan, and Scot's wife Lara are killed by Russian Spetsnaz (special ops) operatives. Scot had gone inside Russia and killed many people, including the Russian President's son. In "Near Dark", Scot receded into coastal South Florida in his grief and had become a drunk. Then suddenly an armed assassin tried to kill him and he was rescued by his teammates who flew in from the Washington D.C. metro area based on intelligence from Norwegian Intelligence. Someone had put out a $100 million (one hundred million dollars) bounty on Scot's head. The 'contract' was given to several skilled assassins and the money would go to the first one who killed him. Who wanted to kill Scot that desperately? Against the wishes of Scot's new boss (the new CEO of TCC), Scot flies to Europe... he wants to find and kill his hunter/s before they kill him... An excellent book, like most Scot Harvath novels by Brad Thor. Deserves the full 5 stars I have given.

Scot Harvath suffered loss, including his bride, and exacted revenge in the previous book. In Near Dark, we find him in an isolated part of southern Florida, filled with rage, drinking to forget. In a favorite bar, two brawny men pick on the female bartender, and it is just the excuse Harvath was looking for to release tension. After besting the two in the parking lot, he turns to face a gun aimed at his head. Sure that he is going to die, and not too sad about it, he is surprised when a gun shot fells the shooter, not himself. His team rushes in, whisks Harvath away to Camp David, and he discovers someone wants him dead - a hundred million dollars worth of dead. ISIS? Russia? Irish? French? All these countries are possibilities as Harvath and his team track (with the fantastic computer help of Nicholas-the Troll) and a Norwegian agent, Solvi, and ultimately discover the source of the threat. Amazing story.

Let's be honest. It is very difficult to follow up a book like Backlash, Brad Thor's 2019 thriller featuring Scot Harvath. That being said, NearDark was a terrific read. After suffering the loss of many very close to him, Harvath finds himself the assassination target of an unknown enemy. As he faces his demons, he pursues to find out who is behind the hit with the help of a sexy Norwegian Operative, who adds an amazing dimension to the story. This more introspective look at the psych of Thor's hero sets the stage for many interesting future adventures. Thor fully develops his characters and provides significant detail to have a clear picture of his fictional world. While there is some criticism over his reflections and recap of his prior books, I personally found it helpful and provided a better understanding of the evil behind the past events. Overall, I highly recommend and look forward to more terrific thrillers from Brad Thor.

** spoiler alert ** Fantastic follow-up to Backlash. Scot Harvath may be down and out, wallowing in heartache and pain, but at least finds purpose to give him some direction and revenge. By the time things are all said and done, his heart may just be bouncing back too. Again, for me, it's a tribute to Brad Thor's writing and character development that I can care so much for and be invested in the characters in an action/thriller series. That's not often the case. There is plenty of action, intrigue and suspense too. Another highly recommended read.

Excellent story. Great action and plot. Thor brought into characters from earlier books that made this book even more intriguing. Fantastic setting. Brad Thor could write city tour guides for as a side gig if he wanted to. His research on his settings is great. Makes me want to visit Norway. Love how he humanizes Harvarh and makes him relatable to those who have experienced personal tragedy. Already have the next one and ready to go.

Another amazing book! This story started very differently and it took me off guard. The spycraft thriller stuff was up front and was exciting to follow along. I could feel the tension build and I just knew Harvath was about to go do Harvath things. And like everything done by Thor, it ended with a fun twist. Each book gets better and better.

This has everything you will want in a spy/thriller novel: Dramatic action scenes, exotic locations, badass main protagonist, cool technology/devices, and an epic team up! Very easy to read and enjoy!

Scot harvath is back with 100 million dollars bounty on his head. And he finds the person who has put the contract and claims it for himself. Plenty of action and thrilling episodes of who done it to create a dossier on him.

While Brad Thor never fails to deliver, he has outdone himself this time! A year ago if you would have told me that Brad Thor could top Backlash I would have thought you crazy, yet here we are. Near Dark finds Scot Harvath a broken man slowly drinking himself to death. Having lost his wife and mentor Harvath has nothing left. Then after a failed assassination attempt Harvath learns of a 100 million dollar bounty on his head. His only chance of survival is to find who placed the bounty and end their life before an assassin's bullet catches up with him. Thor has written a tense thriller that is impossible to put down and leaves you begging for the next book.

Just a Brad Thor fan, and always like the main character--Scott Harvath

I’m a huge Dan brown fan, so I was elated to see there was a new Robert Langdon book out. It took me three days to listen to it, and I loved that it was long since I didn’t want it to end. I loved how it explored consciousness, which is a fascinating subject. I found myself googling the concepts, and must say I believe in a universal consciousness myself. I loved how the book weaves together knowledge from several fields, and although this is fiction I found it immensely fascinating. Also a plus for getting dissociation right, which too often is misrepresented. This was a splendid Langdon book, and I hope it’s not too long before we get another one.

After a eight-year hiatus, Dan Brown delivers his most intellectually provocative and scientifically grounded thriller to date with The Secret of Secrets, the sixth installment in the beloved Robert Langdon series. This latest adventure takes the Harvard symbologist from the mystical spires of Prague to the cutting-edge frontiers of consciousness research, weaving together noetic science, CIA covert operations, and ancient mythology into a narrative that challenges everything we think we know about the human mind. A Journey Through the Langdon Legacy For readers who have followed Robert Langdon's evolution from his debut in Angels & Demons (2000) through the Vatican mysteries, to his encounters with the Illuminati in The Da Vinci Code (2003), his exploration of Masonic secrets in The Lost Symbol (2009), his descent into Dante's Inferno (2013), and his confrontation with futuristic science in Origin (2017), The Secret of Secrets represents both a culmination and a bold new direction. Brown has masterfully aged his protagonist while maintaining the intellectual curiosity and moral compass that made Langdon iconic. The series has always balanced historical intrigue with contemporary scientific mysteries, but this sixth book pushes deeper into the realm of consciousness studies than any previous installment. Where Origin flirted with artificial intelligence and the future of human evolution, The Secret of Secrets asks more fundamental questions about the nature of consciousness itself and what it means to be human. Prague: A City of Spires and Secrets Brown's choice of Prague as the primary setting proves inspired. The city's gothic architecture, medieval fortifications, and centuries-old mysteries provide the perfect backdrop for a story that bridges ancient wisdom and cutting-edge science. From the soaring towers of Prague Castle to the underground laboratories hidden beneath Crucifix Bastion, Brown transforms the Czech capital into a character in its own right. The author's descriptive prowess shines in his portrayal of Prague's "hundred spires" (actually closer to seven hundred, as Langdon notes with typical precision). The city's blend of Romanesque, Gothic, and Baroque architecture mirrors the novel's own fusion of historical intrigue and modern scientific thriller. Brown's Prague feels lived-in and authentic, from the cobblestone streets of Old Town to the mysterious depths beneath Folimanka Park. The Science of Consciousness: Noetic Research Takes Center Stage Katherine Solomon, returning from The Lost Symbol, brings her expertise in noetic science to the forefront of this thriller. Brown demonstrates impressive research into consciousness studies, exploring concepts from out-of-body experiences to the nature of memory and perception. The scientific foundation feels solid without becoming overly technical, a balance Brown has perfected throughout his career. The exploration of consciousness as potentially existing outside the physical brain represents some of Brown's most ambitious scientific territory. While maintaining the thriller pace that readers expect, he delves into legitimate scientific debates about the nature of mind, memory, and human potential. The integration of real consciousness research with the fictional Threshold project creates a believable foundation for the story's more extraordinary elements. Character Development and Relationships The romantic relationship between Langdon and Katherine Solomon adds emotional depth without overshadowing the intellectual intrigue. Their partnership feels natural and evolved, built on mutual respect and shared fascination with mysteries both ancient and modern. Brown handles their dynamic with maturity, avoiding the romantic subplot pitfalls that can derail thriller pacing. The antagonists, particularly the mysterious Mr. Finch and the tragically manipulated Dr. Brigita Gessner, represent some of Brown's most nuanced villains. Rather than cartoonish megalomaniacs, they're driven by genuine beliefs about national security and scientific progress, making their actions more chilling because they're understandable. The character of Sasha/The Golěm provides the novel's most compelling mystery and its emotional heart. Without spoiling the revelations, this character represents Brown's most sophisticated exploration of identity, consciousness, and what makes us human. The CIA's Shadow Science Project Threshold, the covert consciousness research facility, represents a logical evolution of real-world programs like the CIA's historical Stargate remote viewing project. Brown skillfully grounds his fictional black ops program in documented history, making the extraordinary seem plausible. The moral questions surrounding weaponized consciousness research add ethical weight to the adventure. The author's portrayal of intelligence agencies feels more nuanced than in previous books. Rather than presenting the CIA as uniformly sinister or heroic, Brown explores the genuine national security concerns that drive controversial research programs. The tension between scientific progress and ethical boundaries provides thematic depth beyond the surface thriller elements. Strengths That Elevate the Genre Brown's greatest strength remains his ability to make complex academic subjects accessible and exciting. His integration of symbology, consciousness research, medieval architecture, and modern espionage creates a uniquely educational entertainment experience. The short chapters and cliffhanger structure maintain relentless pacing while allowing space for exposition that never feels forced. The author's research is evident throughout, from architectural details of Prague's historic sites to the legitimate scientific theories underlying Katherine's noetic research. Brown transforms potentially dry academic material into page-turning adventure without sacrificing intellectual integrity. The puzzle elements that define the Langdon series remain satisfying. From the symbolism on RFID access cards to the hidden passages beneath Prague's medieval fortifications, Brown provides readers with genuine mysteries to solve alongside his protagonists. Areas for Critical Consideration While The Secret of Secrets represents a strong addition to the Langdon canon, it's not without minor shortcomings. The novel's ambitious scope occasionally leads to rushed plot developments, particularly in the final act. Some revelations about the Threshold project could have benefited from additional setup earlier in the narrative. The technical aspects of consciousness research, while fascinating, sometimes slow the thriller pacing. Brown generally balances exposition with action well, but certain scientific explanations feel slightly awkward within the fast-moving plot structure. The resolution, while satisfying on an emotional level, leaves certain questions about the broader implications of consciousness research deliberately ambiguous. Some readers may find this open-ended approach frustrating after following such a complex mystery. A Worthy Addition to the Langdon Legacy The Secret of Secrets succeeds as both a standalone thriller and a meaningful addition to the Robert Langdon series. Brown demonstrates that after six books, he can still find fresh mysteries to explore and new ways to challenge both his protagonist and his readers. The novel's exploration of consciousness research feels particularly timely as real-world advances in neuroscience and artificial intelligence raise similar questions about the nature of human awareness. For longtime fans, the book provides satisfying character development for both Langdon and Katherine Solomon while introducing compelling new mysteries. The Prague setting offers visual splendor and historical depth that rivals the best locations in the series. The scientific foundation feels more substantial than some previous installments, grounding the fantastic elements in legitimate research. Final Verdict The Secret of Secrets represents Dan Brown at his most intellectually ambitious, successfully expanding the Langdon universe into new scientific territories while maintaining the historical intrigue and breakneck pacing that define the series. The novel's exploration of consciousness research adds genuine philosophical depth to the thriller framework, creating a reading experience that entertains while provoking thought about fundamental questions of human existence. While not perfect, the book succeeds in its primary mission: delivering an intelligent, educational thriller that respects its readers' intelligence while providing the escapist entertainment they expect. Brown proves that after more than two decades, Robert Langdon still has mysteries worth solving and readers still have reasons to follow him into the unknown. For fans of the series, The Secret of Secrets provides a satisfying continuation that honors the past while pointing toward future possibilities. For newcomers, it offers an accessible entry point that demonstrates why Dan Brown became a global phenomenon. In a literary landscape crowded with mindless entertainment, Brown continues to prove that readers hunger for stories that challenge their assumptions about history, science, and human potential.

The longest book I read this year. It took me almost two weeks to finish it. However, the time spent reading was definitely well spent. I consider myself a big Dan Brown & this suspenseful novel did not disappoint. I felt the writing style was very similar to the all the previous Robert Langdon books. For this entry, the author focused on the topics on life after death, the human consciousness, & dissociative identity disorder. The plot twist involving Sasha Vesna was quite shocking but I felt it integrated in the important subplot quite well. I love how the author effortlessly weaved boring technology & scientific facts into the storyline & still makes it interesting to read. I enjoyed the ending because it was happy & quite satisfying… This book is definitely a strong recommend.

Astonishing

I decided to give Dan Brown's latest Robert Langdon book a 5/5 star rating. I debated about it--with myself. As others who have read it have said, it is formulaic; it feels like we've been there before-again and again- with Langdon being chased around a city...But I would give it 4 stars for the concept in the story, "the secret of secrets." That kept me engaged with the story although the ideas expressed in it were not unfamiliar to me. What gives it 5 stars in my opinion is the setting--beautiful Prague, my favorite European city. I've walked all over that city and so I could visualize it so easily. And I learned some things about the Czech capital as well. So 5 stars... I might change my mind upon further reflection.

New Robert Langdon??? This was in my 2025 Bingo. Literally screaming.

I knew this book would meet my expectations, what I didn't know was they would surpassed them beyond my wildest imagination! It took him 8 years to write it, but it was worth the wait because he delivered an absolutely stunning one! His best yet! As always short chapters, fast paced scenes, a good storyline, lots of unexpected twists in the plot and in the characters and in this installment a mixture between science, mithology, ancient history and Prague's history, recent events and an amount of interesting information! Food for thought! Langdon is accompanying Katherine Solomon to Prague. She was invited to give a lecture in her field of expertise and needed a plus one. But then she disappears, leaving no clue to where she is and Langdon races against time, against the police, the Úzsi against a dangerous and powerful secret agency and against other beings lurking in the dark streets of the city, trying to find the woman he loves! I don't want to spoil other readers fun but I'll just say that Katherine is a Noetic scientist, meaning she studies the human consciousness in all it's manifestations: ESP, precognition, near death experience, etc, a theme that has always interested me!

I don't think Dan Brown can ever disappoint. The neuroscience in this was awesome, and even though we didn't get as much symbolism discussion as we normally do in a Robert Langdon adventure, it was still enough to bring back that familiar feeling. Great book!

Having read all of the previous Dan Brown novels, I was prepared for his particular plotting style where everyone runs around in wild chases, hunting for clues and escaping villains involved in some kind of conspiracy embedded in historical secrets and lore. Hence, we skip the cover page description. As enjoyable as his books usually are from an escapist and entertainment angle, they also tend to include his protagonist, Robert Langdon, facing off against one-dimensional characters, figuring out almost impossible puzzles, and lots of overwhelming theoretical arguments related to science, new technology, or threats to mankind. I am sure this will come as no surprise to anyone when I say most of those elements are included in his first novel in over seven years – “The Secret of Secrets”. And yes, that is the primary reason we read Dan Brown. Now here’s the big surprise. It looks like he’s spent those seven years perfecting and refining his craft. Many would probably argue that he didn’t need to, but he did it anyway, and the outcome resulted in a fully immersive and thought-provoking reading experience that hit on almost all of the things that he was attempting to do as a thriller writer. “The Secret of Secrets” is a seriously ambitious in story and scope, even for Brown, and he is surprisingly up to the task. It has what I would consider to be his most complex and layered storytelling to date, with several connected storylines interwoven together in a tight set of mysteries and adrenaline filled thriller elements. For me, his plotting and character depth have matured. Brown is focusing more on his plotting to drive the story, rather than just throwing one puzzle after another at his main character. And trust me, it pays off well for him, and for us, the readers. Yes, we still have a lot of theoretical arguments and debates sprinkle heavily throughout the book, and some of the references to scientific studies and experiments will most likely go over the academic deep end for most readers, but the overall story is extremely well structured, causing the primary conflict that drives the characters and their actions, as well as fully grabbing our interest. I especially appreciated that Brown fleshed out his characters, providing them with real motivation and purpose for their roles. For the first time Brown let’s others serve in key roles along with his popular protagonist, Robert Langdon. I would mention a couple of them, but I don’t want to infer too much of why, so I will just say that it was a good choice for Brown to let them share the stage because it strengthened the story. Even the bad guys were doing what they thought were best for their country. They were the heroes in their own stories. As you can tell, I was surprised that this book was not only better than I expected it would be, but it was also much better than I had hoped for. There were moments when I felt that same thrill of discovery that I had when reading his previous bestselling book “The Davinci Code”. It’s been a while since I have been that intensely riveted to each page. Even good old Robert Langdon came across as a three-dimensional authentic person rather than his usual stiff self. Why not, the man is discovering love, and it seems to fit him just fine. Way to go, Robert! To be fair, that doesn’t mean there weren’t any speed bumps along the way. As I mentioned earlier, the scientific dissertations and arguments were rather deep and not always easily understood, but who doesn’t want to try and know what happens to a person’s spirit when they pass away, even if it is speculative and fictional. Another bump for some readers may be the length. This one is pretty long. There’s a lot that happens in this 671-page novel that sometimes feels more like 800 plus. Never let it be said that Brown using setting, in this case the city of Prague, to share historical anecdotes about landmarks, buildings, art, and pretty much anything else that he can think of to share. I enjoyed most of it, except when it interrupted serious momentum of moving the story forward. I should also mention the big climactic ending and continuous epilog is played out over the last 200 pages, which reminded me of the ending to Peter Jackson’s “Lord of the Rings” movie trilogy that was so dang beautiful and sentimental, but went on and on and on… You get the point. However, I would say that for me, the entire book moved along at a frenzied pace (just as you would expect from a Langdon thriller) and the extended didn’t hinder my reading experience in any way. This may seem inconsequential side note but be forewarned. If you read the physical hardcover edition of this book, be prepared. This is surprisingly one heavy book. I am not sure what type of pages the publishing company chose to use, the tradeoff with the higher quality is a book that will make your arms hurt if you try and read it while holding it up or laying down. Overall, I am quite pleased to say that I pretty much enjoyed the heck out of reading Dan Brown’s “The Secret of Secret’s” more than I could have hoped for. His combination of exploring a scientific based controversial theme that connects with most people, a compelling complex plotline that explored scientific and philosophical themes, and interesting characters in conflict, turned out to be a winning recipe for me. I am not sure where Dan Brown can take Robert Langdon next, and how long that journey will take before another book is completed. For now, that doesn’t matter. I am going to relish and appreciate the three to four nights of great reading this book provided me, my brain, and each of my senses. I hope it does the same for you.

This was easily one of my five-star reads of the year ⭐️ Even though The Secret of Secrets was long — and at times dense with scientific jargon — I could not get enough. I went back and forth between my physical copy and the Spotify audiobook, and I genuinely loved every minute of this newest adventure with Robert Langdon. Dan Brown’s writing in this series is consistently strong, but this installment felt especially sharp. As much as I loved Origin, this one somehow topped it for me. The pacing, the reveals, the intellectual puzzles — it all felt elevated. The science in this book was fascinating. After reading the author’s note and realizing that the experiments and theories explored here have grounding in real-world research, it made the story even more compelling. Brown has always had a talent for weaving art, religion, and science together, but here the theoretical science felt especially immersive and relevant. And let’s talk about the setting — Prague was the perfect backdrop. The old-world mysticism, gothic architecture, and historical suspicion contrasted beautifully with the cutting-edge scientific exploration at the heart of the novel. It creates that classic Dan Brown tension: ancient secrets colliding with modern discovery. If you have a long commute (I’m in the car about 90 minutes Monday through Friday), this is SUCH a great audiobook pick. The momentum makes the miles fly by, and the intellectual depth keeps your brain fully engaged. Also — as someone who loves The Da Vinci Code film adaptations, I could vividly imagine Tom Hanks moving through every scene. The cinematic quality of this story is undeniable. If you enjoy: • Intellectual thrillers • Art, history, and science intertwined • Real-world theories blended with fiction • Fast-paced mysteries with global stakes This is absolutely worth your time. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ — dense, smart, immersive, and completely addictive.

Well hot dang!!!! The sequel outdoes The Perfect Marriage. Absolutely Exquisite. Just gripping!!! The storyline is darkly entertaining, I’m loving all the angles and I seriously could not put it down.… GET THIS ON YOUR LIST, YESTERDAY….. Better than the first one, and there’s is another one to come after this one. Can’t wait!!!!!!!! Thank you to Blackstone Publishing for an ARC in exchange for my honest review. 😊

For a full spoiler version of this review, please check out my book review blog here: https://spoiledbooks.blogspot.com/ (Link fixed) This sequel is pure chaos in the best way. Sarah Morgan is back, sharper, scarier, and somehow even more fun to watch unravel people’s lives. Jeneva Rose serves up twists like they’re hors d’oeuvres at a party you didn’t realize was a murder mystery. I laughed, I gasped, I muttered “oh no she didn’t” more than once. If you enjoyed The Perfect Marriage, this follow-up proves lightning can strike twice. Messy, devious, entertaining — just the way I like my thrillers. Check out my review on The Perfect Marriage Check out my review on Home Is Where the Bodies Are Check out my review on You Shouldn’t Have Come Here Check out my review on One of Us Is Dead

WOW. 🔥 Just WOW. 🔥 If The Perfect Marriage was the bait, The Perfect Divorce is the deadly trap. 🎣➡️🪤 This book is razor-sharp, jaw-clenching, and utterly addictive. Sarah is back - more venomous, manipulative, and unapologetically brilliant than ever. 🐍⚖️ With a law degree in one hand and a body count in the other, she doesn’t just play the game, she owns it. 📖 Couldn’t. Put. It. Down. The pacing is relentless with short, punchy chapters that had me saying “just one more chapter” again and again. The shifting POVs (shady husband, nosy sheriff, and Sarah herself) kept me hooked from start to finish. 💥 What you’ll get: Twists that left my jaw on the floor. 🤯 A tangled web of lies, betrayal, and courtroom chess matches. ♟️ Morally gray characters you love to hate (and hate to love). 😈 Snappy dialogue packed with wit and bite. 💬✨ An ending that blindsides you in the BEST way. 🎢 This isn’t just a thriller - it’s a wild, unputdownable ride. 🚨 Favorite quote:💫 “I knew when I married Bob, I would divorce him one day, because men are like lawyers. They can’t be trusted. And I would know because I am one… and so is he.” 💔⚖️ 4.5/5 ⭐️

4.5 ⭐️ I actually loved this 😂 I liked it even more than The Perfect Marriage. Listen… this plot is ridiculous and outlandish and unimaginable… but it’s a thriller! That’s how it’s supposed to be! This was fast paced and I didn’t want to put it down. We meet a lot of the same characters from the first book. Sarah Morgan has been married to attorney Bob Miller for 10 years, after her first husband, Adam, was sentenced to death for the murder of his mistress (all the plot from book 1). Sarah and Bob have been facing some stress of their own when Bob is caught having an affair. The divorce is on… and so is the body count. Like I said, I enjoyed this a lot. Well done Jeneva. Super fun ride with this book.

a PERFECT ending! Although I am still hoping for a third book lol.

The Perfect Divorce 5⭐️ Exceeded my expectations and was better than The Perfect Marriage IMO. I read The Perfect Marriage about 4 months ago and gave it 3 stars. I struggled with the sloppy police procedures and unlikely-ness of many aspects.And, honestly, the ending reveal made me feel tricked, but this book addresses it all and makes me less salty. I think if I re-read TPM now I would appreciate it more because everything is addressed and comes together. TPM ending left me not trusting any of the characters this time around. I love Sarah’s mannerisms and demeanor! She’s not your typical damsel in distress cliche. This book has A LOT going on. It kept my attention and I was able to breeze through it within a couple days. Whether you loved TPM or felt meh about it, I highly recommend reading The Perfect Divorce! Thank you to NetGalley and Blackstone Publishing for this ARC in exchange for my honest review. This review will be shared on NetGalley and Goodreads. Pub Date Apr 15 2025

The beta read for this book was INCREDIBLE and I have no doubt the final version will be even more amazing!!! Thank you Jeneva for allowing me to read an early copy of your work ❤️ Jeneva Rose does not disappoint in this highly anticipated sequel. Sarah Morgan’s story is one that keeps you hooked from beginning to end, with plenty of twists and turns along the way. TPM & TPD are undoubtedly stories worth reading again and again, and recommending to every thriller reader looking for a fast paced and additive story. Thank you to Jeneva Rose for allowing me to beta read this book, and blackstone publishing for the ARC.

I will admit that The Perfect Marriage wasn’t my favorite book by Jeneva Rose, but this one was so much better and completely made up for the things in that one I didn’t love. I listened to the audiobook for this one and I liked the narration quite a bit. This was full of twists and turns and while I expected pretty much all of them, I still enjoyed the wild ride. Sarah’s second marriage is also ending, this one she is ending with divorce. Bob is not pleased with this turn of events and is desperate to earn her forgiveness. But their past is also coming back to the forefront as new evidence suggests it’s possible that Sarah’s first husband didn’t kill the woman he was convicted and put to death for killing. This is full of drama and deceit and I enjoyed it. Overall I gave it 4.5 stars rounded up for being a fun ride.

5 ⭐️ SARAH IS CRAZY 😳

Holy fucking shit. I'm still processing what I just read because wtf (in a good way). I was struggling with a book slump for almost 2 months until I randomly decided to pick up this book. First off nobody is who you think they are - which makes the entire book thrilling. It's a perfect sequel to The Perfect Marriage and the ending was wrapped in a bow, but at the same time I had no idea that was what would happen!! It's full of twists and turns that lowkey make you second guess EVERYTHING you know about the characters. I'm high key hoping there's a 3rd book 😍

I was lucky enough to win this book in a Goodreads giveaway! I loved it just as much as the first!😍😍

4.5 ⭐ I really liked this book! It kept me engaged from the first page. I guessed one of the plot twists but the others I did not see coming lol. ~📖

Well that did not end how I excepted it to…… 🤯

Jeneva Rose could rewrite the phone book and I’d still have an excellent time reading through it. The Perfect Divorce is the direct sequel to The Perfect Marriage, and you MUST read that one first before reading this one. I did a brief recap to refresh myself for this, which was also helpful. I think this is Jeneva’s best writing yet-while I could guess many (but not all) of the twists, she’s just so witty and funny that you can’t put the book down. The audio version is absolutely worth a listen, and the narrators embody their characters well and everything is clear enough that you can read it above 2x speed to find out what happens quickly. Loved this one!

“Sometimes you think you know a person, but you never really know everything.” 🔪🩸⛓️ if you ever hear the name “sarah morgan,” you better start running away! to be honest, i didn’t have much hope for this book. i didn’t think there was even a CHANCE that this book could be as good as the first. i was so wrong. this book was fantastic! and there’s going to be more of sarah morgan in the future? keep it coming! i’m completely here for all the dramatics. the plot!! the original case reopening. a murder. TWO abductions. the dramaaa! this book had my head spinning. there was just so much going on, it was impossible to be bored! plus, there was also still that great writing style with some comedy sprinkled in here and there which always makes things even more enjoyable. the characters!! they were even crazier in this book than they were in the first! 100% unhinged. 100% crazy. plus, there were more povs, which made things more exciting as well. getting to hear the cases from all of the different sides was definitely important for this book. the big reveal!! i sort of guessed it? maybe not to THAT extent, but everything does make sense in the end. man, these characters sure are crazy. that’s all i have to say. can’t wait for more of sarah morgan! would i recommend this series? YES!! IT’S SO FUN! would i read it again? DUH!!

Jeneva can write a good thriller! I loved this sequel it kept me engaged right away! So good.

5/5 Another great book by Jeneva Rose. This book is the sequel to The Perfect Marriage; which is a must read before starting The Perfect Divorce. The events in this book take place after the events in the epilogue of The Perfect Marriage. Sarah is now married to Bobby and raising their daughter, Summer. After finding out that Bobby had a one-night-stand, she decides to file for divorce. It is later discovered that the woman that Bobby had the one night stand with has disappeared and he is the number one suspect in the investigation; in addition, the police department also reopened the murder case from The Perfect Marriage after finding more clues. In this book, we get multiple POV's and the turns and twists in this book are unpredictable and unexpected. Overall, this book was excellent and very fast-paced. I highly recommend it.

Absolutely loved The Perfect Divorce! Jeneva Rose somehow outdid herself—this was even better than the first book. The plot was sharper, the twists more shocking, and the emotional depth really hit. I couldn’t put it down. If you thought the first one was good, prepare to be blown away. The ending!! Holy cow!!!

One word: SAVAGE! This sequel is even better than the first! *I definitely recommend reading THE PERFECT MARRIAGE before diving into THE PERFECT DIVORCE.* Eleven years ago, Sarah Morgan defended her husband, Adam, on charges of capital murder for killing his mistress. She has moved on with her new husband, Bob and their daughter Summer. She no longer defends criminals, instead revelling in her nonprofit, which gives second chances to people charged with felonies. Life is good. Until it's not. When Sarah discovers that Bob had a one-night stand, she immediately files for divorce. But at the same time, new DNA evidence in Adam's long-gone case comes to light, reopening the investigation and thrusting Sarah back into the mess. When Bob's mistress is reported missing, things get EVEN messier and all gloves are off. Will they survive the divorce or will it be "til death do us part"? Now this is how you do a sequel...with guns blazing!! With so many addicting twists, THE PERFECT DIVORCE is the perfect page-turning thriller. I knew to expect SHOCKING and malicious moments, but just when I thought I had it all figured out (I did have ONE part), Jeneva pummels you with more dark, vicious turns. Sarah is a force to be reckoned with and I LOVE her, even when I should be low-key hating her. Fast-paced and HELLA entertaining, I promise you'll DEVOUR the chaos! And because inquiring minds NEED to know - will there be a third installment?? 4.5 stars rounded up.

Seriously couldn't keep up with all the twists and turns in this one! In the very best way. Jeneva Rose 🌹 has done it again. Readers are going to eat this one up.

4.5 stars Nothing better than a fantastic revenge thriller! Hoping for another in this series!!

I loved the Perfect Marriage and the Perfect Divorce is just as diabolical. Why do I want Sarah to succeed in her schemes despite the fact that she is a psychopath? But this time, Bob is a psychopath too. Is clever enough to take down Sarah? Absolutely not. I'm not sure where this story could go honestly, but if there was a third I would 100 percent read it. This is my 4th Jeneva Rose novel. Despite hating one of them I loved the other 3, so I will definitely keep coming back. The audio for this was gripping, absolutely perfect. Thank you to NetGalley, the author Jeneva Rose, and Blackstone Publishing for my ARC of this audiobook.

"What's this about?" Sadie asks. "We'd like to talk to Mr. Lockwood." "So I gathered," Sadie replies with a bit of bite. "What about?" Brynn smiles and puts her badge back in her pocket. "It's about a murder." It's time to articulate, folks, and if you haven't had the absolute privilege of meeting Windsor Horne Lockwood III, you've come to the right place. He's a little bit this: And quite a bit of this: Truly, Win is the reason why I have an unhealthy, obsessive love affair with every fictional morally gray character I come across. He's a cheeky gentleman in public settings, and an absolute animal behind closed doors, and I mean that in multiple ways. He has no problem delivering a good beat down and toeing around the constraints of the law to get what he wants, and he's also the proverbial ladies man. If you're a long time Coben fan like moi, they you'll already be quite familiar with Win and his WASPish, deviant ways due to his reoccurring appearances in the Myron Bolitar series. Win is more times than not the avenue Myron uses when he needs access to things that the police have, but cannot obtain through his typical private investigating channels. If you know me, then you know that I'm a huge fan of Myron and co., and would beat myself up if I didn't take the opportunity to encourage the reading of said series for all the background and Easter eggs you might find in this book, but if you're not up for a massive 13 ish book binge read, I would at least recommend reading Home first, as there's a major twist dropped right at the end that could be helpful going into this book. As someone who has been waiting for a novel from Win's POV for 12 years, this book is kind of a big deal. Clearly, a reader who is brand new to the author's work won't have the same visceral reaction to this story that I have, but if I can't win you over with the excellent characterization and "coming home" feeling that these books provide, perhaps I can win you over with the plot. <--- win... see what I did there? hehe I'm actually not going to touch on any specifics, because I know a LOT of people have been desperately waiting for this book, and it would be an honest shame if I didn't give readers the same opportunity I had to go in blind. Here, we get not one but TWO mysteries to solve! The first crime was when Patricia Lockwood was kidnapped over 20 years ago during a robbery at her family's estate, and she's held captive for awhile before escaping. Unfortunately, so did her captors, and what they stole from her family. Fast forward to modern day POV, and a man is found murdered in a NYC apartment, and Win's briefcase, along with the family's missing painting, turn up at the crime scene. Clearly both crimes are tied together, and Win decides to branch out in his own investigation of sorts. I think I'll leave it there, but this book truly exceeded my lofty expectations. It has action, intrigue, a dash of romance, and mention of some old characters that I think readers will be happy to be reunited with. Whether or not you're a fan of the Myron Bolitar series, I think you'll be able to sink into this standalone and enjoy it just the same. *Many thanks to the author for providing my review copy.

4.5 stars rounded up. I didn’t bother reading the blurb for this book - if Harlan Coben wrote it I want to read it. But when I found out that “Win” referred to Windsor Horne Lockwood III of the Myron Bolitar books I was delighted. I’ve always loved the Win character, he makes me laugh! And now he is getting his own series, I couldn’t be happier. When Win’s former FBI mentor, known as P.T. calls Win to a crime scene he is perplexed but he goes anyway. A man, yet to be identified has been killed in one of the penthouse apartments of an exclusive residential hotel. He is a hoarder and there is stuff everywhere but the reason for Win’s visit is hanging on the wall. The original Vermeer painting that was stolen, along with a Picasso, 20 years ago during a short loan from the Lockwood mansion to their exclusive college. How curious! Also present, and more troubling, is a personalised and monogrammed leather suitcase that had been given to Win by an aunt. He hated it so gave it to his cousin Patricia. The suitcase disappeared in a separate incident, also many years ago, when two men broke in to uncle Aldrich’s house, killed him and abducted Patricia after telling her to pack a suitcase (the suitcase). Patricia returned to civilisation after 6 months and helped police locate what was to become known as ‘the hut of horrors’. Evidence was found of numerous victims before Patricia who had been held, raped, tortured and killed. Understandably she doesn’t like to talk about it. Now Win is interested as he doesn’t want any blowback for his cousin, no suspicion that she, or indeed himself, may be considered suspects. But when the identity of the dead man as one of the Jane Street Six is uncovered it rather awkwardly ties together three separate crimes, and as far as Win is concerned, that’s not coincidence! The Jane Street Six were hippie protesters from the 70s who were going to throw Molotov cocktails at a building to make a political point, but one of the missiles went astray and caused a bus to crash, killing 5 or 6 people. They were labelled terrorists and the public were baying for their blood but they effectively disappeared from sight. So naturally he makes it his mission to find out what is really going on and how all these very old cases are related. Well you how it goes - nothing is ever as it seems and Win finds some very dirty secrets lurking in the past. I loved the book, I loved the tone of the book, I love the Win character and can’t wait to read more of his escapades. Actually he reminds me very much of Aloysious Pendergast from another book series. I imagine Win would drive some people nuts with his very blunt way of talking and his answering the phone by saying “articulate” but I find it all rather endearing. This book will appeal to all thriller and mystery fans and, it’s the first in a series. Thanks to Netgalley, Random House UK, Cornerstone and Harlan Coben for providing a copy to review. My opinions are my own.

More than twenty years ago, Windsor (Win) Lockwood’s first cousin, Patricia, was abducted during a robbery of her family’s estate. She was found five months later but her kidnappers were never identified or caught. When a recluse is found murdered in his penthouse apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, they also find some of the stolen items from that robbery with his remains. Additionally, they find one of the two priceless pieces of art Win’s family had on loan at a university that was also part of a theft years earlier. One item in particular, however, points to Win who has no idea how it ended up in the home of a man who they later identify as a most wanted domestic terrorist from decades ago. If you’re a fan of the Myron Bolitar series, you already know and probably love Win Lockwood as I do so I was elated when news of this book and series was announced. If you’re unfamiliar with this character or that series, it doesn’t matter as Win is presented perfectly to both audiences. He’s not changed and I loved learning more about his family and origins, even though there is still more to discover about this enigmatic character. The mystery was thorny and if all of these elements weren’t complicated enough, Win is also dealing with the consequences he created through his singular sense of justice in another situation. There are a lot of balls in the air to juggle but I didn’t have any problems keeping up or assimilating all of the clues. The story far surpassed my expectations, which were high and the reason I delayed listening to the book. Speaking of listening, Steven Weber nails Win! If you have the option of getting the audio version, grab it because his performance was exceptional at every level. Yes, he’s one of my favorites, but still. Win isn’t your traditional hero or role model and I’ve often questioned why I find him so appealing. Maybe it’s his authenticity, loyalty to friend Myron Bolitar and fearlessness. Who knows but I’m a diehard fan and think you will be, too. And, the author’s signature twists (there were several) just made this a stellar reading/listening experience. I’m excited for what may come next in this series. Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to Brilliance Audio for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

I was thrilled to learn about the complex ‘Win’. He is the Yin to Myron’s yang and it was most satisfying to learn who he is. He has a family. Imagine! He has children. Imagine! I think I am late to the party here as ‘Mickey’ was mentioned, and I know this is an off shoot from Bolitar as well. I definitely was more invested in the character aspect of this one, rather that the plot, although this was necessary to see Win's motivations and how he lives, thinks and feels. Myron’s ex Jessica makes a cameo, also, I will not spoil anything about that part. It was a little odd, but still nice to hear from an older character. I need to keep up my momentum with the all things Bolitar, it’s my favourite series, and yes, my favourite author. This was a good mystery, Win is very skilled and has such a complex personality and way of thinking. He pushes every limit imaginable, and even more curious is the way in which he interacts with women! I love how he begins to show an empathy (not sure if that’s the right word) and questions his softer side. This is very interesting and I can see it will be built upon as the series progresses. I listened to the audio, which was amazing. One of the best I’ve heard. A hearty congratulations to Steven Weber. You can tell quality authors and publishers in the way these choices are made. I typed a passage (while using my audio on slow speed which was absolutley hilarious) which I thought was an amazing summation of the two characters we love. Win and Myron. Myron and Win. Those who know us well would note that I always came through when Myron would engage in similar quicksotic quests and ask for my help that in fact that after all the times I marched into battle for him without question or pause Myron owes me. Most folks would be wrong. Let me clue you in on the advice Myron’s father, one of the wisest men I know gave his son and his son’s best man - that would be yours truly - on Myron’s wedding day. Relationships are never 50/50. Sometimes they are 60/40 sometimes 80/20. You’ll be the 80 sometimes, you’ll be the 20 others. The key is to accept and be okay with that. I believe this simple wisdom is true for all great relationships, not just marriages. So if you added up how my friendship with Myron has improved and enhanced my life, no. Myron owes me nothing.

Win...A Unique Man, Who Gets What He Wants Done, HIS WAY!# I absolutely loved this story! I adored the character of Windsor Horne Lockwood III since I found this author's books years ago...He is rich...Extremely Rich...Loves violence, is a ladies man, may appear soft and slight, but watch out!! He cares little what others think...And 'Family' ideals trouble him...But there is no better person to be in your corner when trouble strikes! An unknown man is found murdered in an expensive apartment...Surrounded by stuff...Lots of stuff, hoarding to an extreme...The only clean spot is where he lies, with a Vermeer painting, stolen from Win's family years ago on the wall...And a locked suitcase bearing Win's initials in the corner...So the police seek Win, and the real fun begins...Two cold cases now call to Win, the theft of art and his cousin Patricia's kidnapping...Both twenty years ago.... A totally thrilling story, which will have you laughing, crying and perhaps cursing the 'I have more money than God' Win, as a wild story mixes several cases in history and bring closure to a few...

I have listened to Myron Bolitar since you could pop a cassette into the car (they came in a folder of 6-8) and listen for hours on a long drive. Win was always a favorite side character, and I am glad that he has gotten his own book. I think I would have liked this a few years earlier, but I will take it as a win (ok no pun intended). The book really had a lot of twists and turns and the back story and ending just floored me. Some of the characters backstory I have forgotten since the series runs decades and the characters are aging with a lot of history. I give this a 4.5* and if you like the series this book is a great addition.

It’s All about Win “The shot that will decide the championship is slowly arching its way toward the basket“ causing everyone in Indianapolis’s Lucas Oil Stadium staring at the ball with an open mouth 😮 😮 😮 … Everyone… except Win Why? There are two main reasons for Win not giving a damn about that game everyone else is watching: Number one, Win never cares about the outcome of a game where he or anyone dear to him isn’t an active participant. Why, he often wonders, would anyone?!… Number two, Win is there to focus on Him!… Who’s Him?! His name is Teddy Lyons — he’s one of the too-many assistant coaches on the South State bench. He’s a six foot eight beefy guy who likes to be called Big T. Win is there to “put a hurting” on Big T. There is no way around that. He’s still not sure how much of one, but the damage to his physical health will be severe. Why… we haven’t the faintest idea!… Anticipating likely mistakes, everything has been planned to the slightest detail, so… why the heck are those FBI agents sneaking around?!… Well… my dear Win(dsor Horne Lockwood III), although your guilty (?!) conscious is driving the stream of your thoughts to Big T, an unbiased mind would probably find a myriad of other reasons to explain the unexpected presence of those FBI agents… 😉😜 If this beginning pinched your curiosity, please do yourself a favor and read this book! If not… read it anyway, cos in due time, your curiosity is bound to join the party 🎈😜 🎉

Attention Everyone… this is Win Ok, but… who the heck is Win? Win is that guy who owns a private jet where he usually goes for showering (Wow! What an extravagant luxury! A jet with a shower!) and sometimes for traveling (whilst showering or…eventually not (sorry guys, that shower inside a jet made a strong impression on me!!!😜)) He also happens to be a badass hero in the sense that he can be in equal parts an obnoxious asshole and a noble gentleman! 😉 In fact, we’re gonna have the privilege of knowing him quite well cos… as the narrator of the whole story, every event will be handed to the reader through his idiosyncratic personality … I confess I simply adore this sort of badass heroes. They are prone to be arrogant and extremely irritating, hence, quite far from the usual hero stereotypes; their imperfections only make them more real and believable because, like the rest of us, non fictional characters, they can be also outrageously flawed 😉… What else shall I say? Oh, shut up!🤐🤫🤐… It’s a thriller! 😉😜

One of my favorite characters gets his own spin-off novel? Sign me up! It was a delight getting inside the head of Windsor Horne Lockwood III. In his deeper conversations with Myron, he’s seldom one to hold back his thoughts, but experiencing an entire story through Win’s eyes was a fascinating change of pace. Some of the most compelling moments came from internally exploring his moral compass (or seemingly lack-thereof, at times). I’m hopeful for another story following Win’s perspective someday, but I was already spoiled with Think Twice, so I’ll just happily wait for whatever Coben writes next. It’s my reading drug.

I haven’t read more than one of two of the series this is spinning off from, but this book left me wishing 1. There were more books in this series and 2. That I had read more of the other books. I liked Win as a character, even if I wouldn’t care for him much as a person. I liked the ties to Batman and especially respected it was the original show. The mystery was interesting to me and I like having the sleuth have his own unique methods and reasons for digging. Win is surprised when the FBI ask him to come with them and bring him to an apartment he has never seen, show him a picture of a man he has never seen and he recognizes a priceless work of art stolen from his family years before.

Be sure to check out the giveaway of this book on my blog here. (Open to US/Canada residents) This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life in Books. I loved this book! I have been a fan of Harlan Coben's writing for a long time. I am always excited when he has a new book hitting store shelves but I was absolutely giddy when I found out that this book was going to happen. Win plays a big pivotal role in Coben's Myron Bolitar series and has been one of my favorite characters for a very long time. I couldn't wait to see him take the lead in this book and it was everything that I had hoped it would be. Once I started reading this book, putting it down proved to be impossible. Win plays by his own set of rules. He is incredibly wealthy which makes it possible for him to do things that mere mortals couldn't necessarily do. Win has his own moral compass and tends to function in a grey area. When he feels that someone needs to be stopped, he stops them. Win is a man of action and doesn't always think to include others in his plans which sometimes causes problems. Win gets a call from the police about a man that has been found dead. The man was a recluse and an incredibly valuable painting that was stolen from Win's family is also found in the apartment. To add to the mystery, police have also discovered a suitcase bearing Win's initials, WLH3. Win believes that the suitcase may be connected to the kidnapping of his cousin, Patricia, twenty years ago. I was captivated by the mystery in this book. I was very eager to learn how everything was connected and I liked the way that Win approached each situation. There were so many different pieces that needed to come together to tell the complete story and I was hooked by each twist and turn. There were a few times that I worried if Win was finally in over his head but I trusted that he would find a solution like the resourceful man I know he is. I would highly recommend this book to others. Readers of the Myron Bolitar series will be thrilled to see the spotlight on Win but this book will also work well as a stand alone. I cannot wait to read more of Coben's work in the future. I received a review copy of this book from Grand Central Publishing.

I haven’t read any of the Myron/Win series, whilst I didn’t have the background, it can easily be read as a standalone or #1 in the series. There is a murder at the Beresford Apartment Building, the body of a recluse and hoarder is discovered. Items found on the scene connect to the Lockwood family. The stolen family Verneer taken years ago in an art heist and a case bearing Win Lockwood’s initials. The items connect to the murder of Win’s Uncle Aldrich and the rape and torture of his cousin Patricia. Patricia was kept at the infamous Hut of Horrors after she escaped it was uncovered other young women where held and murdered. Win investigates the murder; he uncovers who was behind the Art Heist all those years ago. Win connects the dots of what happened at the Hut of Horrors, lots of thills, suspense and nail bitting tension in this one. I liked Win, his sarcasm and narcissistic nonchalance was entertaining. I read this book switching between the audio and my physical copy. The audio version is brilliant, I kept picturing Win as Jason Bull from the “Bull’ TV Series”. I saw a lot of Bull’s personality in Win. Highly engaging and entertaining read, I’m looking forward to the next book in the series. Thank you to Penguin Random House Australia and Harlan Coben for my ARC in exchange for my honest review.

Windsor Horne Lockwood III, the name itself a mouthful, is known as WIN, Myron Bolitars best friend. He's the central character in this book and this is a solid page turner! When a recluse is murdered in an upscale apartment in New York, the FBI find two items with him which belong to the Lockwood family. When Win starts looking into the mysterious connection, skeletons start tumbling out of the cabinet!! A very exciting nove🔥 Please read 📖 the detailed review from here https://rb.gy/tj20pq Do Like👍, Comment💭 or Share 🚩 #win #harlancoben #fbi #thrillernovel #thrilling #mystery #bookfan #bookreviewer #bookworm

How did I love thee? Let me count the ways. Well, for openers, how about 5 stars? Mostly, that's because of the brash, ballsy character, Windsor Horne Lockwood III (Win to his family and friends), who never misses an opportunity to articulate his vast wealth and abilities. A braggart? Yep. Arrogant? No doubt. A undeniable success at everything he does? Sure - as he'll be glad to remind you of that at every opportunity. And to be sure, he gets plenty of those in this book, which, I hope, signals the beginning of a series just for him. He's also appeared in the author's Myron Bolitar series, so those who have read those books know who I'm talking about (but not having read any has no effect on enjoyment of this one). As this begins, Win is finishing up some payback business with a particularly nasty dude (oh, did I mention that he doesn't hesitate to take the law in his own very capable hands when he feels it's appropriate)? Mission accomplished, he heads back to New York and the scene of a murder, where in addition to a very dead body he spots an ultra-valuable painting that was stolen from his family many years earlier. Could it be that the victim was the art thief? If so, how, where and when did he acquire it? Complicating matters is that another family-related item is discovered in the dead guy's posh penthouse - one that could pose serious questions and open old wounds within Win's tight-knit, uber-protective family. When the victim is finally identified, even more questions are raised - mostly relating to possible ties to a 1970s radical group dubbed "The Jane Street Six." And that's where I'll stop. The twists, turns and nosedives come hard and fast from this point on, and needless to say I won't reveal anything except to say that nothing - and I do mean nothing - came between me and my Kindle until I'd reached the very last page (with all due respect, Mr. Coben, I admit to saving the acknowledgements section to read the next day). I'm a diehard Coben fan, so I can't say I'm surprised at how good this book is, but I will say it exceeded my already in-the-sky expectations. Kudos, and thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review a pre-release copy.

Skillfully crafted and intricately plotted, Win shows Harlen Coben at the top of his game. We take a deep dive into a character who is probably a psychopath, definitely shady, yet still incredibly likeable. This complex, action-packed nail-biter is a massively entertaining read! We have a murdered recluse. A stolen painting. An abducted heiress. A group of domestic terrorists. These threads all link together in the most diabolical way. And Win is going to find out what they have to do with him. Whether or not you’ve read and loved the Myron Bolitar series, you’ll want to run (not walk) to grab your copy of Win.

This is the face of a longtime HC fan who is thrilled that Windsor Horne Lockwood III finally gets his own book! 🙌🏻 If you’re not already a fan then this is actually a great place to start, Win is one of those unforgettable characters and this standalone book where he’s the star of the shows further cements his place as one of my all time favorite characters. One of the things that I love the most about the authors books is the combination of a complex plot and dry humor and no one delivers a witty one liner like Win. Add in some insanely well executed twists, not one, but two cases and you have one hell of an entertaining, addictive read. HC is the thriller king for me and I seem to like his books more and more as he writes them, highly recommended by me, for both Myron fans and anyone who hasn’t had the pleasure of meeting Win before. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

This was an ARC I received from the author's website. I loved this book. Again, this is one of my favorite authors and this book was no exception. It's about a sort of new character. He's been in other books but not as the main character. Now he's the main character and in the beginning of the book I did not think I would like Win. He was very into himself but of course he grew on me and by the end of the book I understood him and really enjoyed his story. I definitely recommend, as always, any book by Harlan Coben. I could not put this book down once I started reading it.

Harlan Cohen would really have to be having an off moment for me to give his work less than five stars. WIN is not my favorite character, but story is good with twists and turns. The idea of family can be strange.

Spectacular. Just simply spectacular. Win is my favorite literary character, and I was so excited to see him get his own book. Don’t get me wrong, I love him with Myron, but there’s so much more to him than just a vigilante best friend. Win owns his privilege, he accepts It and doesn’t hide it. He is who he is. And what a man he is. He lives by a code of justice and fairness, and will do almost anything to make what he thinks is right happen. There are so many twists, turns, and Edge of your seat moments in this novel, and nothing really is what is seems to be. Like I said, spectacular.

20th Victim is the twentieth instalment in the Women's Murder Club series and is a fast-paced, pulse-pounding treat of a thriller from beginning to denouement. Each of these riveting instalments can be read as a standalone without any issues whatsoever but this is a series you will end up addicted to like many readers. There is a madman on the loose and police officer Lindsay Boxer is the one who has to investigate. The shooters’ aim is as fearsomely precise as their target selection so it is clear he knows what he's doing and may be ex-military. The killer decides to contact local reporter Cindy who then becomes completely embroiled in the whole situation. The women face the most intense, high-octane confrontation of their lives and their toughest challenge to date. Can they identify and catch this serial killer before he strikes again and another ”innocent” life is lost. There's a reason why James Patterson's books are so popular and successful; they are accessible to all and offer high drama, fast pacy plots, engaging characters, twists and turns, and are fiendishly good fun. The plot is easy to follow and the ideal entertainment for crime connoisseurs. You simply know what you're getting before you even touch it. This one is no exception and despite it being the twentieth book the series shows no signs of flagging or losing steam. The short, snappy chapters are his trademark and work superbly to allow for that ”just one more” mentality to take root. One thing you can count on going into a JP books is that you're guaranteed a taut, well-told, riveting, twisty tale and a rollicking good read. I don't know how he does it but he constantly blindsides you with new twists, turns and red herrings and something notable happens in every single chapter making it a cracking read that easily takes over your mind and has you feverishly flipping the pages. His books don't exactly score highly on the scale of believability but if you can just let it go then you are treated to a raucously good read. It's compulsive and I must admit reading right through the night as all of the hints had me desperate to find out what actually happened. His casual writing style and short, snappy chapters are second to none and he knows how to get you hook, line and sinker within a few pages. Highly recommended. Many thanks to Century for an ARC.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ I love this series so much. I never get sick of these characters. I want to visit San Fransisco because of this series and so many Danielle Steel books. This plot was fast moving with two great subplots. One revolving around Joe and an old friend and another with Claire going through a personal issue. Great read!!! Cannot wait for the next one that comes out the beginning of May!

This is the 20th book in the women’s murder club and the 90th James Patterson book I have read!! 💜

I just finished the book and it was a great read. I would recommend it.

Good read

By remarkable coincidence, THE 20th VICTIM is the 20th novel featuring the quartet that has come to be known as the Women’s Murder Club. At this point it would be easy for James Patterson and Maxine Paetro to perform the literary equivalent of phoning in these books. I am happy to report that they have done anything but. This latest installment contains a number of surprises and changeups in the manner of its 19 predecessors, and readers will be the richer for it. THE 20th VICTIM starts strongly and never lets up. The initial case involves a traffic stop that goes very badly when the passenger in the stopped car shoots and kills the investigating police officer. The man flees, leaving behind the hapless driver, a patsy named Clay Warren, in a stolen vehicle loaded with drugs. Clay could help himself by identifying the shooter and thus aiding in his apprehension, but he is terrified of retaliation if he does. Yuki Castellano, a San Francisco assistant district attorney and a member of the Women’s Murder Club, is tasked with bringing Clay to trial but is aware that he was ultimately in the wrong place at the wrong time, and that justice would be better served if the doer was identified and apprehended. Meanwhile, San Francisco homicide detective Lindsay Boxer is dealing with an extremely interesting series of murders. The first involves a retired sports figure who is killed execution-style at a fast food restaurant. The second concerns a prominent music producer and his wife who are taken out in their home by a sniper. It develops that the victims in both instances were dealing drugs. No one is more surprised than Lindsay and her law enforcement partner, Rich Conklin, when they learn that other high-profile drug dealers were killed at the same time in different parts of the United States. As the murders continue, they discover an organized group that seems to be dedicated to vigilante action against the drug dealers, as well as an ex-special ops team member who appears to be responsible for the killings in the Bay area. Finding him, though, is another problem, fraught with danger as it dovetails indirectly with another plotline in the book. However, the most intriguing case involves Lindsay’s husband, Joe Molinari. Joe is contacted by an old friend who strongly believes that his father, an elderly man with health problems, was murdered by his physician while receiving inpatient hospital treatment. There is no real evidence of this, but Joe’s friend is certain that it occurred and is bound and determined to obtain justice and/or revenge, in no particular order. It is revealed that the doctor has lost other patients as well, but Joe has reason to suspect that his friend might be guilty of the very crime of which he is accusing the physician. It’s a simple issue with a complex set of facts, well presented, and a bit of an unexpected spinoff that makes the book worth reading all by itself. The Women’s Murder Club is one of those rare long-running series that improbably gets better with age. Patterson and Paetro continue to make a terrific collaborative team, and their names together on any book cover constitute a guarantee that what awaits within is worth buying and reading. This is especially true of THE 20th VICTIM. Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub

if you like james patterson i will love this book it about murder and people are murder lawery try to help a kid of murder

Simultaneous murders hit LA, Chicago and San Francisco. SFPD Sergeant Lindsay Boxer is tasked with uncovering what links these precise and calculated killings. Lindsay discovers that the victims all excel in lucrative, criminal activity. As the casualty list expands, fear and fascination with this shocking spree provoke debate across the country. Finally an instalment of the Women's Murder Club that fans can be proud of! We have a return to the three friends being the core of the read, which is the whole point of the read! Lindsay, Yuki, Claire and Cindy all have their own plot threads in this, they all play a vital role and they all feature prominently. Recent books in this series have seen them somewhat lacking but they are back and I love it! Now, do not get me wrong, a read such as this is never going to set the world on fire. But you know what you are going to get and Patterson delivers an adrenaline filled, high intensity read. I sat and read this in one go and there are not a lot of books you can do this with. Not only do we have the intense, thrilling investigation side but there is an emotional, heavy hitting aspect as the characters experience their own turmoil. I just adored being back with the gang, reading this highly enjoyable read. '20th Victim' is a worthy instalment of the Women's Murder Club and sees a return to form for Patterson. Fans of the series will love this.

Random in Death by J D Robb In Death series #58. Futuristic mystery cop thriller. Can be read as a stand-alone but better as part of the series. Teen girls are being killed by a cocktail of chemicals that kills them within minutes. It’s up to Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her staff to figure out the killer and then catch him or her. 🎧 I listened to an audiobook version of this book which was narrated by Susan Erickson. Susan is a long standing fan favorite with distinctive voices for Eve, Rourke, Peabody, McNab and many others in this series. Listening to the performance you get to hear Eve’s snark and impatient attitude and Roarke’s calming presence and Peabody’s upbeat enthusiasm for her job. In this specific book, we can hear the pressure building as the cops try to beat the clock and the killer before he strikes the next victim. I was around book 36 before I tried an audiobook for this series. I’ll admit I hated the first two I listened to. Not because the narrator did a bad job. On the contrary, it was an excellent performance. But they weren’t the voices in my head after years of reading. This is maybe the fourth or fifth audiobook I’ve listened to in the series and while I admit one or two voices will still startle me, I love listening to the police work and the tension as it escalates, as well as the calming relationship with Eve’s friends and children and even the fat cat sleeping on her. These books are like revisiting friends once or twice a year but having the luxury of not being in the middle of a murder situation as we sit back and listen. I received a copy of this from NetGalley and Macmillan audio.

Random In Death is the 58th novel in J.D. Robb's "Eve Dallas" series. I just couldn't stop listening! The author's fast paced story-telling always has me addicted from beginning to end. This novel has Lt. Eve Dallas and her team rushing to find a killer that picks teenage victims randomly. I love being in Eve and Roark's world and revisiting all of the characters I have come to love. Susan Ericksen's narration is always superb! Thank you to NetGalley and Macmillan Audio for an arc of this audiobook in exchange for my honest review.

4.5 for the pure horror of this plotline! Another half-star because we didn't have to hear so much squealing about Peabody's new house. Then a subtraction of half a star for a lot of the incomprehensible (to me at least) modern cant. There are 58 books in the series, with another coming up, Passions in Death #59, on September 3. You have to expect some bumps in the road, but I sure felt this one was smooth sailing all the way! The idea behind this novel and the author's execution of it was so horrifying that I can see this happening, although not in quite this manner, in this day and age. And that makes me very glad I don't have any kids, although now I'm going to worry about my nieces and nephew! The stomach-churning tension and horror make the ending to this particular story so much more satisfying! *ARC was supplied by the publisher St. Martin's Press, the author Nora Roberts, and NetGalley.

Another excellent visit to New York in 2061 where we catch up with Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her husband Roarke. This is the 58th (I think) book in what has to be a masterpiece in writing. The world Ms Robb has created while similar to ours is so advanced technically (with Space travel) it's a marvel, the speech used by the New Yorkers is also fabulous, for example Doozer an amalgamation of dweeb and looser (used by teenagers). The characters are as ever on top form, after so many books we know what we're getting from them but it still enthralls. There's Jenkinson with his awful ties, Peabody with her ability to manage Eve at her worst, MacNab with his psychedelic clothes and Trendy with his parental oversight of them all. (To name but a few). The job Eve does as a homicide detective is her life, dedicating herself to it after being rescued from intolerable abuse as a small.child she grew up.in the system and wants to make a difference for people like herself. The work is emotionally devastating at times and she has said (many times) without the support of Roarke she would not still be able to work, having been close to burning out when they met. Roarke his part could have his own standalone series he's that fascinating, a boy from the slums of Dublin he grew up picking pockets and engaging in all types of illegal.activity. There was always a line he would.not.cross.however, o drugs, no human trafficking and luckily was able to avoid the sex trade. Niw, however he is a billionaire one of the richest men in or off planet and devotes a lot of his time and resources to assisting Eve in her pursuit of murders. What more can be said,the stories can be so heartwrenching when dealing with the victims and their families but are nicely blended with (sometimes) subtle humour. If I were ever to be stranded on a desert island if this series could be my one luxury I could live there happily.

WHAT a THRILLER! It's been a few years since I picked up a JD Robb - still does not disappoint. Eve is called to the scene of a club - a famous rock band performing for their old neighborhood. A young, talented girl injected with a massive amount of drugs. No reason. No sense crime. The next night - it happens again. No connection. Random. I love Roarke and Eve, Peabody and McNab and all the other characters. They are like old friends.

This one was sad because of the ages of the victims.

Justice for Jenna. That is what Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her loving and yummy husband Roarke want. The teen was at a concert and received a deadly injection. Eve is determined to find Jenna's killer, especially once it is discovered what was in the concoction that killed Jenna. Other victims just might be in danger, so Eve is in a race against time. Susan Erickson narrated this wonderful novel. I am thinking that she just be among my top favorites of narrators. I love how she manages the voices of all of the characters, especially when humor is threaded through the pages of this book. The In Death series is top of the line, and it would be to anyone's advantage to read or listen to the books in order. Never fear, most libraries have this series, as will as Audible and multiple other formats. Put this book, Abandon in Death, and the entire series in your TBR. I promise that you will not be disappointed. Many thanks to St. Martin's Press and to NetGalley for this ARC for review. This is my honest opinion.

Lieutenant Eve Dallas, Peabody, Roarke, and the rest of our beloved crew, is back with another riveting case. A murderer is targeting young girls by injecting them with a nasty, highly toxic cocktail of drugs which kills them in minutes. Sixteen-year-old Jenna Harbough is the first victim, jabbed in the arm by a male while attending an Avenue A concert, where she hoped to slip a demo tape to singer Jake Kincade. The next day, another victim, with more to follow. Eve, Peabody, and the team leave no stone unturned as they piece together the clues. They’re dealing with a highly intelligent perpetrator—someone skilled at chemistry, someone fueled by rage and malice. It’s fascinating to see it all come together, as always, by such a compelling cast of characters. This is book 58 and still I never tire of the series, of the stories and adventures J.D. Robb so expertly imparts. This fast-paced procedural is the perfect blend of heart and suspense, and a 2024 favorite already. Original review published on Vilma Iris Blog // Follow me on Instagram for more bookish content

This book was compelling from beginning to end. The author, as always, does a great job of detailing the crime and the investigation. The perpetrator is slowly revealed, but their horrible crimes splash across the page immediately from the beginning of the book. As Eve Dallas begins to peel away the layers of this crime, the reader will be transfixed, both by the complexity of the investigation and the potential for more crimes that would surely be coming. The characters just flame to life, and the personalities of the victims, their friends, and the perpetrator are so well described. I listened to the audiobook as well, and the narrator Susan Ericksen portrayed teenagers in such an authentic way. She was able to expertly portray drama, horror, grief, sadness, and love in such a powerful way. Eve Dallas's personal life is subtly layered throughout the book, but never takes over from the crime and investigation. This thriller is horrifying, enthralling, and captivating throughout. J.D. Robb (Nora Roberts) has done it again. She has turned out another quality book that will keep you mesmerized. I received a free copy of this book from St. Martin's Press. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

Random in Death is the next book in the In Death series and I cannot tell you how much these books give me life!!! I adore this series. I love the characters, I love the mystery, and I adore the narrator. Random in Death features a type of crime that is truly scary-totally random murder. Trying to figure out who the killer is when there is no connection to the victims is a challenge, even for Eve. Jake Kincaid is back in this edition, along with Nadine, Quilla, and Jamie. Of course, Roarke, Peabody, Feeney, and McNab are there as well too. This was certainly one of those "all hands on deck" crimes. These characters have so much meaning to me. Its like peeking in on friends or people I know IRL. I'm so attached and invested in this series. If you haven't started it, you simply need to drop all your other reads and grab Naked in Death (book 1). Seriously, I can't say enough great things about the series, and Random in Death just continued the amazing journey. Susan Ericksen narrates the series and she is simply one of the BEST narrators! She brings this series to life with her voice acting. Simply Brilliant! POV: 3rd Tears: no Trope: police procedural Triggers: [spoiler]Incels, misogyny, drugs, murder[/spoiler] Series/Standalone: series (while this crime stands alone, to really appreciate the series, you need to read them from the beginning Cliffhanger: [spoiler]no[/spoiler] [rating-report] The Harry Bosch series by Michael Connelly, Say You're Sorry by Karen Rose...then you will probably like Random in Death! Random in Death

Actual rating: 4.5 stars Random in Death is another wonderful installment in my favorite cop procedural series. While not every single installment has been among my favorite stories in terms of plot, I don’t think I’ll ever get tired of catching up with Eve and Roarke. Admittedly, the cases are better in some books than they are in others. I felt that this particular installment featured a really solid case. But even better, there was a wonderful balance between the procedural elements and the relational ones. That’s a balance that Eve has worked hard for over the dozens of novels before this one, and I love seeing it finally coming to fruition here. She’s allowing herself to breathe and enjoy life, even in the midst of whatever murder she is trying to solve. After everything she’s been through, it’s beautiful to see. Also, I loved that Roarke was more present in the story than he had been in the last few books. I love their marriage, and the way they’ve softened each other over the years. Both characters shined brightly in this book, demonstrating their kindness and affection to each other, their inner circle, and even to total strangers. It was my favorite element of the entire story. Then there’s the case itself. Teenage girls are being targeted at random at huge events for teens, starting at a concert given by Avenue A. The randomly selected targets are injected with a deadly cocktail of pure heroin, ketamine, a date rape drug, and syphilis, just to add insult into the mix. The very randomness of the case made it difficult to solve. But you always know going into any book in this series that Eve will catch her killer by the end. Something that always impresses me is Nora’s ability to make you care deeply for a character in only a couple of pages, before killing them off. She did that multiple times in this book, but most compellingly in the life of our first victim, Jenna, a sixteen year old aspiring musician. I felt that the world had been robbed of a great talent, even though she had never truly existed in the first place. That shows incredible talent, in my opinion. I deeply appreciate the fact that Nora churns out these books with such regularity. It was a joy getting to spend time with this cast of characters again. The case was compelling, and I was emotionally invested the entire time. Random in Death was a really solid installment in the longest running series I’ve ever kept up with, and I’m already counting down the days until we get book 59!

I love this series so when I got sent the arc of the next book from MacMillan Publishing I did a happy dance. This rating is my honest opinion of the book. The murder investigation was very interesting because of the nature of the murders. As much as I enjoy the investigative process what I enjoy most is the personal moments between Eve and the other characters, especially Bella. These books always have moments that make me laugh out loud. Sometimes they even have me tearing up when the victim dies because in some cases (like this book) you get to meet them before they die. I would definitely recommend this book to everyone who wants a good murder mystery that will also make you laugh.

Delightful as always

This is one of my all-time favourite, absolute "must read" series. The very fact that this is book 58 - that's FIFTY EIGHT! - in a continuing series that regularly makes best seller lists should make it obvious what a great series it is. I am absolutely in love with the characters in this series. They feel like old friends and I love each new book as an opportunity to reconnect with them as they jump into their next investigation and see where the characters' individual stories have evolved to. I really do love everything about this series and I will keep reading the books as long as Nora Roberts (writing as J.D. Robb) is willing to keep writing them.

In this new book of the series Eve Dallas must figure out who is killing young girls while they are attending large events. The killer stabs them with a needle filled with a deadly mix of drugs ending their lives before they have really begun. She soon realizes that the targets are random making finding the killer that much harder. Will Eve be able to put enough clues together to lead her to her killer? Follow along as she does everything in her power to stop a murderer and bring justice to the victims of this uncaring killer. This is such a fabulous series that I have been reading since.I was in high school. It only gets better with age and you can't help but get attached to the characters within. I always look forward to each new book and to each new story!

I was describing this book to my 80 year old dad, and he asked if he could borrow it to read. I did warn him that there are over 50 books in the series! I read it in one sitting. He will take at least a week. But I would lay odds that he enjoys it and asks to read more of the series. It was that good!

Thanks to NetGalley and Macmillan Audio for a copy of this excellent book for review. LT Dallas is back at it, solving murders and taking down the baddie in this newest installment of the In Death series from JD Robb. I have read many of these novels, and many through audiobook, so it was like listening to a story from an old friend. I loved it! Susan Ericksen does an excellent job with the narration, and I appreciate that the pacing, as well as expressiveness, kept me engaged. What is a struggle for Eve Dallas and team with this case is that the victim seems to be random, thus the title Random in Death. However, with a shoestrings length of evidence and a passion for the victim, Eve puts her everything into taking what she has and solving this case. I loved this one. The familiar characters. The familiar voice. It was a great way to spend some of the snow days we've had, and the ending is as satisfying as the other cases in the In Death series. If you love, Eve Dallas, JD Robb, Susan Ericksen, and the In Death Audiobooks as much as I do, I suggest you run to pick this one up and dive right in! The readings fine!

J.D. Robb is, perchance my favorite author. I have read all of her books that I am aware of. Even the ones written by her alter ego that go in with the series. When I completed book 56 in the series I said I was disapointed and that something new needed to happen. This book drew me back in. I read it simply because I had an advanced copy and felt I needed to. Well I am really glad that I got the copy, I am in love with my hero's again. Within the first few pages I had laughed and cried. This novel contains a deeply involved plot that any parent of a teenager has at one point are another found themselves wondering about. This book was thought provoking and tragic, yet filled with love and happiness also. The kindness and the heart was all back that I have come to expect in these novels. I can't wait to see what happens next time! ***Thank you to NetGalley, J.D. Robb (Nora Roberts), and Macmillan Audio for graciously sending me the audiobook to review. As always, all thoughts are my own.***

Yes! Yes! Yessss!!! This is how an audiobook should be done! You take a well written plot with amazing character development then turn it over to a narrator who makes sure each individual character gets their own voice and enhances the character development that the author wrote! You can close your eyes and allow the story to flow through your mind as if you are actually standing among the characters living, feeling and enduring all that they do! I am so amazed that each book in the In Death series has a fresh and intriguing take on crime, the characters involved, their lives and the city that they are all living in. I do recommend that you read the books in order as you will get loads and loads of backstory, but you will also gain days and days of entertainment. I am simply in awe of authors who have written a series that has books that number in the double digits and manage to continue to be fresh, but this series is well over 50 books and stays fresh and relevant with the story lines. I am always first in line for the audiobook version of this series as it is my number one always must listen to series! If you haven't tried it out yet, you should. Between the creative genius of JD Robb and the creative performance of Susan Ericksen, you will not be sorry!

Patterson continues his Jane Smith series with another exciting novel. And the same suspect, Rob Jacobson, is again accused of murdering yet another family. He was recently acquitted of the first murder charge largely due to Smith’s excellence as a defense attorney. Either he is guilty this time or someone who is very clever is setting him up. He does not lack for people that have a grudge against him. There are other players involved, some are collateral damage and some are victims of a very dangerous man who likes cleaning up loose ends. And all this is taking place while Jane continues to fight terminal cancer. There are no dull moments in this writing. It is just a good “who dunnit?” Characters are believable. Action is abundant, This is a nice, quick read with just enough suspense to keep the reader’s attention. Well written with an atomic ending.

Gosh I love Jane effing Smith! What a badass this woman is. She is a tough defense lawyer in the Hampton with a perfect record, she has ever lost a trial. On top of a stressful job she has a terminal cancer diagnosis and is running out of time. She is constantly receiving treatments to help treat and slow the symptoms, leaving her drained and exhausted. Jane is determined that the cancer won’t stop her doing her job and pushes herself to the limits everytime. This is the 3rd book in the series and she is defending the same man again, for a different crime. She detests Rob and for once she feels she might want to lose a case. While all of this is going on, bodies are dropping like flies and hitting close to home. There is always something happening, and with short chapters it is so hard to stop reading. James Patterson books are always so addictive . I love the relationships that Jane has, with her boyfriend, her partner Jimmy me of course her dog, Rip. Anybody with a recuse dog is a good person to me. James Patterson is one of my all time favourite authors, I have been reading his books since I was a teenager. There is no sign of his books slowing down, I still highly anticipate his new books, and love recommending them to my friends. I am always so happy when I get to read any of his books early, a big thank you to Little Brown Company for giving me the opportunity. This one is out in July but I couldn’t wait to dive in and find out what was going to happen to Jane. No spoilers, but I loved it.

Book 3 in the Jane Smith series. Jane is once again defending Ron Jacobson for the murders of three people. Did he actually do it or was he set up. In addition, Jane is undergoing treatment for cancer and she is having a difficult time time staying focused. She now has a second chair the Ron Jacobson has hired in case she can’t continue to defend him not only because of her cancer, but because a mob boss has threatened to kill her. Jane continues to persevere. Fortunately, Jane has her investigator/friend, Jimmy by her side as well as her boyfriend, Ben. Good read with plenty of courtroom drama.

Jane "Effing" Smith and her investigator Jimmy Cuniff are back, taking on the impossible once more, as Jane continues her fight against cancer, and the client from earlier in the series, the unlikable and affluent bon vivant Rob Jacobson, who is once again accused of murdering another family. With Mike Lupica's knack for crafting vibrant characters, delivering sharp and engaging dialogue, blending Mob hitmen and the stunning Hamptons backdrop, this series continues to be a winner. Absolutely love it!

“When Jane Smith takes on a famous celebrity client, she’s armed and with brilliant arguments, hard evidence—and two Glocks. Yet she’s chased down, shot at, and risks contempt of court. That’s when mounting a legal defense turns into self-defense. Knowing every day in court could be her last, she’s a survivor. For now.”

I really like this series although its hard to keep track of all the characters.

** spoiler alert ** After the number 2 book in this series had me take it down to a 3 stars, I’m happy to say I’m back with a 5 star review. (Again, it should be noted - for me - that this is 5 stars of entertainment and not exactly 5 stars of literally genius. I don’t know why I always feel the need to quantify as I truly wouldn’t know a literary sensation tbh) Jane is back, spunky as ever! Although I don’t think she’d liked to be called spunky. lol. The witty comebacks of hers are I think what endears me to her so much. (Once upon a time, I too used to be clever. :-/ ) Jimmy Cuniff is still Jimmy, who I want in my life and who everyone should have one of. He’s just an honest to goodness true loyal no bullshit friend who sticks with you through thick and thin and still loves you even when you’re at your worst. It seemed that Ben Kalinsky took a bit of a backseat in this one and I’m not sure why. Maybe because she turned down his marriage proposal at the beginning? I don’t know. He’s still there though and seems like he might become more prevalent in the next book. Or maybe they are purposely not making Jane’s relationship with him the focus, because maybe that’s not who she is. She’s the job first, Jimmy’s BFF second, RIP’s mom third - and then Ben. (Shrugs?) When they finally wrapped up the case with Rob, I was thinking, okay, what’s gonna be next for her and how is it going to somehow tie to Rob? And then, at the end, you see! What a doozy of an ending. He had it coming though: didn’t he??!! Note to self: maybe don’t try to write a book review at 5:00 a.m. You know that mornings aren’t your time to shine.

This is third in the Jane Smith series and can definitely serve as an end of a trilogy. The ending provides satisfying closure (for now) to Jane's struggle with Cancer and the fight to free her problematic client, Rob Jacobson, who is a defendant (again) in a multiple murder case. 12 Months to Live introduced the (many) characters and the crimes / murder mysteries surrounding the first three books. Hard to Kill adds to the mayhem and continues the story. The Hampton Lawyer continues and deals well with Jane's romance with the wonderful Dr. Ben, the relationship to friend and doctor Sam, her relationship with her sister who also has cancer, and her partner Jimmy Cuniff's investigations into the possible solution to the mystery surrounding Jane's client. I choose to follow the series because I want to know what happens next to Jane and her friends and clients. But the authors provide an answer to the ongoing questions and an ending to this saga. Case closed. But the ending also introduces the possibility of a new case, a new client, and the continuing possibilities of life and love for Rip the dog, Dr. Ben, Jimmy and Jane "effing" Smith.

NO WAY! NO WAY! I can't believe that ending—I'm still reeling. James Patterson and Mike Lupica really know how to keep you flipping pages and gasping out loud. The Hamptons Lawyer is explosive, emotional, and downright addicting. Jane Smith is a force. Fierce, unflinching, and totally unstoppable, she doesn’t let anything—not threats, not bullets, not even cancer—stand between her and the truth. She's a criminal defense powerhouse with grit, intelligence, and just the right dose of dry humor. And her circle? Perfection. RIP the dog, Ben, Jimmy, and the hilarious Norma Banks bring balance, loyalty, and levity to the chaos swirling around Jane’s life. There are touching moments woven into the action—quiet reminders that Jane’s fighting more than just legal battles. She’s fighting for her life, too. But she does it with style, courage, and a damn good closing argument. That ending? Mind. Blown. I need the next book immediately.

Gotta love Jane Smith and her partner Jimmy - fighting cancer, her client and a collection of bad guys - they stand up to cancer and everything else! What are the chances a guy could be charged in killing family of 3 where he's dating both the daughter and the mother, get acquitted and then come up with the exact same scenario a few years later? Well, if you're Rob Jacobson, chances are excellent :-) Unlike the first 2 books in the series, this time we find out who the real killer(s?) are - and of course, it can't be Jane's client, could it? Well written, keeps your attention and you wind up rooting real hard for Jane in all her battles (can't have Dr. Ben lose Jane, can we?). Mike Lupica has done well with the Parker Spenser series and doesn't disappoint in his collaboration with Patterson.

Shockingly Great Book & Series I’ve been reading Patterson for decades. I’ve purchased enough to pay my mortgage for a month or two. I’ve always liked his very early books, and I’m a diehard Alex Cross fan. I’ve read many of the Michael Bennett books and Women’s Murder Club books, but have been a little bored with Bennett & WMC. Then I read this series of 3 books (so far). WOW! It’s as if Patterson and Lupica made me the perfect martini! I definitely recommend the Jane Smith series to you. It features a defense attorney, Jane, and her partner, ex-cop Jimmy. The three books cover two triple homicides that are attributed to an arrogant idiot of a man, but he’s very entertaining. Read the series and enjoy!

That ending is an epically juicy cliffhanger, and I'm still thinking about it! If you’re new to the series, I recommend reading Hard to Kill (Book 2) before jumping into this one. This is my second Jane Smith novel (Book 1 is still on my TBR). With one book under my belt, I had enough background on the characters and the ongoing drama. The plot in this novel is super twisty and gripping, holding readers until the very end. I especially enjoyed Jane's health and home storyline and how it was so connected to her courtroom experience. If you love female leads who don’t take any nonsense, there’s a lot here to enjoy! Even when Jane is physically ill, she still manages some sharp verbal jabs, which is so satisfying.

Finished reading: The Hampton Lawyer by James Patterson and Mike Lupica Support your local libraries. I borrowed this book from my local library, Loutitt Library 📚!! This is a suspense thriller fiction novel. Published July 2025. Softcover large print edition around 490 pages This is the 3rd book in the A Jane Smith Thriller series This was an excellent read! Love this series. So well written. Love the characters, detail and engaging. The storyline is suspenseful, fast paced and entertaining. Summary from back cover: The Hamptons on Long Island is know. For its beautiful beaches, it’s luxury lifestyle- and it’s exclusive legal advice. When Jane Smith takes on a famous celebrity client, she’s armed and ready: with brilliant arguments, hard evidence- and two Glocks….

Jane Smith is easily my favorite female character created by James Patterson. No matter what is thrown at her, she comes out on top. In this book, she us defending a familiar client. There is enough backstory here to read as a stand alone. She decides to hire a jury consultant, Norma Banks. Norma adds a an exquisite layer to the story, she is 83 years old and full off piss and vinegar. Jane's case is being prosecuted by Katherine Welch, a very fiery, formidable opponent. In typical Patterson fashion, this is an excellent fast paced crime drama, the twist at the end, caught me completely off guard. Read as a stand-alone or as part of the series, you cannot go wrong with Jane "effing" Smith.

my heart is so full. ok so i honestly didn’t think going into this that i’d be walking into a tsunami of emotions. i was hollering, screaming, crying, and dying. 🤬🥹🙄🔥😝😝🥶 i’ve said this before and i’ll say it again: if there’s one thing i love, it’s a broken man that doesn’t know his self worth but then he does all thanks to the woman. gets me every time. 😋😋😋 one thing i appreciated from this story was how complex it was. i was legit crying for this man, my heart was aching for these characters. i liked how this book had a more realistic and emotion-filled approach. the tension and chemistry these characters extrude was potent. it was tangible. i was fucking feral. i’m talking -wringing out the mattress, foaming at the mouth, biting ankles- feral. one thing i love, is a man that has it BAD for her and that was our very own Fox. he wants her SO bad “i’m so ready for you. been aching so long.” i was fucking giggling into my pillow. this man has my undivided attention yall 😩✨ and the dirty talk he’d do? “You want me to spread you out on the bed and use my tongue on that pussy, Hannah? say the word and i’ll do the rest. all you have to do is slide your fingers into my hair and hold on.” like SIR ?!? i was letting out moans y’all 🫦🫦🫦 Hannah is a baddie with a fatty😤. i love her so much. she’s so smart and confident. i loved her “leading woman” behavior. 😉 i was screaming at the top of my lungs when she’d put Fox in his place. Yeah you fucking tell him bestie! make his ass grovel. make him feel the pain of his actions. fuck him up and leave him desperate for the air you breathe. if there’s one thing i love, let it be a man that worships the ground a woman walks on!!! queen shit 😏😶‍🌫️⭐️🫦😭💖🔥😫💥🤸🏽🤩🥵✨ and that epilogue at the end was just the cutest thing ever!! i wanna live in that epilogue 🥰🥰🥰

this book has no right being this amazing. this duology as a whole is seriously god tier. this particular installment will speak to anyone who has ever seen themselves as the support, rather than the main character, in their own story, to the people who always have the perfect song for the mood they are in, to those who struggle with imposter syndrome, and to the ones who always believe in those they care about, even when they dont believe in themselves. this story oozes charm and heart and sweetness and understanding. its the perfect embodiment of the younger bellinger sister. and honestly, i love how hannah prompts and encourages fox to grow. usually the female characters are the ones who goes through the development in romance novels, so its beyond refreshing to see the guy be the focus instead. foxs character development is so wholesome and purposefully combats the societal pressures men face when it comes to maintaining a certain reputation and image. its a topic that definitely needs more attention. this is a wonderful follow up to ‘it happened on summer’ and gives a heartfelt send-off to the bellinger sisters. a massive thanks to avon books for the ARC!! ↠ 5 stars

Wow! I was already intrigued by supportive, quirky, sensible, musical prodigy Hannah and heartbreaker, charming, flirty Fox at “It Happened One Summer”. They might have been supporting characters of Piper and Brendan’s love story but they truly deserved their own book. And thankfully Tessa Bailey answered our prayers with this spectacular cover and most emotional, tear jerking, sweetest love story! Hannah always considers herself as supporting actress, not a leading lady. She thinks she’s hype girl as her sister Piper always demanded the spotlight ( we already witnessed how her influential efforts resulted with more heartbreaks) since their childhood. And Hannah patiently waited in the wings, waiting for her right time to be announced as best supporting actress. She was always the one who was bolstering the heroine at her lowest point, taking care of the situation, fixing things! But enough is enough. She wants to take risks: coming clean with her long time crush bohemian director Sergio about her feelings and her passion to work at the musical department. She doesn’t have to work as production assistant forever! She needs to make changes! But she misses her sister and her time she spent in Westport. Maybe she also misses the charming king crab fisherman she’s been texting for seven months. Luckily she convinces Sergio to carry the last movie’s production location to Westport from L. A. But Piper’s parent in laws’ visiting at the same time forces her move to this charming fisherman’s spare bedroom! Yes! The flames are blasting! She puts more gasoline into the fire! Since they spent time at the convention center and he bought her Fleetwood Mac’s Rumors album, she couldn’t get him out of her mind. It seems like Fox felt the same: they already started seeing fireworks: but both of them were too stubborn to talk about their feelings. Fox suffers from imposter syndrome. Even his coworker, best friend Brendan doesn’t trust him with Hannah. Everybody in the small town thinks he’s just a manwhore. His parental issues and an unfortunate incident at the college changed his perspective to the relationships. He’s always doubtful about his own self worth and he thinks he destroys anything he touches. But seeing Hannah in his own apartment, getting jealous to see her with her precious douchebag director change something in him! Hannah and Fox’s story is more intense, sentimental but also heartwarming than I expected. Especially seeing the vulnerable side of Fox affected me deeply. Hannah might be my favorite character of the series from the beginning. I always loved her more than Piper. I was thinking to give four stars to this book but ten years later epilogue filled my eyes in tears so I added additional half star to round up 4.5 to 5 sweet, teary, touchy, trust, love, self worth, bravery, second chances stars! Special thanks to NetGalley and Avon and Harper Voyager for sharing this digital reviewer copy with me in exchange my honest opinions.

Tessa Bailey knocked it out of the goddamn park with this equal parts swoony and angsty friends-to-lovers that will leave you panting. for. more. Hook, Line and Sinker has climbed right up to the top of my favourite romance books and I'm not ashamed to announce that I will fight anyone over Fox.

5 stars “You make me feel like I’m in the exact right place,” I’ve read quite a few of Tessa Bailey’s books, and although I’ve enjoyed every one I’ve read, none of them have had that five star favorite quality for me… until now. Hook, Line, and Sinker was the perfect romance for me. I loved everything about Hannah and Fox’s story! Hannah is Piper’s sister and doesn’t feel like the leading lady in her own life. She’s back in Westport helping with a film and it feels right to be there. Back with her sister, back with Fox. Fox and Hannah became fast friends while she was in town before and have stayed in touch. Fox has a bit of a reputation, but he’s so much more than what he seems. While in town, Hannah stays in Fox’s spare room. It’s fine… they’re just friends. While Hannah has a little crush on a coworker, Fox decides to help her out by being flirty with her to give a little more attention to her. When that flintiness turns real and real feelings get involved, they both have some big choices to make. “I didn’t know what right felt like until you,” he choked out. “I’m holding on to the good you give me. I’m holding on to you.” Though I had so much fun reading this one, one of my favorite things about it was seeing the characters so exposed, vulnerable, and unguarded. They really got to know the raw and real heart of each other and though they had mad chemistry, it was that honest heart connection that really did it for me. They both saw a side of each other that others don’t see and the way Hannah stood up for/protected Fox was absolutely everything! If you enjoy friends to lovers, want a good rom-com with the perfect amount of emotion, and are looking for a sweet and steamy read that’s a lot of fun, pick up Hook, Line, and Sinker. This one completely stole my heart and I can’t recommend it enough!

I definitely enjoyed the first book, but I LOVED this. Nothing better than watching a cocky, larger than life guy get completely wrecked by a woman. I could read those stories all day.

After not loving It Happened One Summer, I was a little hesitant going into this one, but I knew from the text messages between Hannah and Fox that form the prologue that I was going to love Hook, Line and Sinker! This reminded me why I love friends to lovers when it's done right. I thought the chemistry between the two main characters was great and the metal pining had me hooked until the very end. After this one I'm super eager to get my hands on more of Tessa Bailey's books!

*in a singsong voice* I read this, I read this. I loved it, I loved it. This was absolutely a brilliant conclusion to this duology and I loved every moment. Hannah and Fox's relationship was super loveable and I couldn't help but sigh in happiness whenever Fox tried to deny his feelings. Like, boy, I know you. *whispers* you lying. Anyway, their characters were awesome, I loved the details and I can't wait for more Tessa Bailey! She never goes wrong :)

”You can’t live life worrying about what people will think. You’ll wake up one day, look at a calendar, and count the days you could have spent being happy.” Clearly I have no chill, and decided to dive right into my early copy of ‘Hook, Line, and Sinker’. It doesn’t release until March 2022, but the people shouldn’t be left in suspense about my thoughts. 😂 In ‘It Happened One Summer’ Tessa Bailey introduced us to the friend pairing that is Fox and Hannah as support characters. In HLaS it’s their time to shine, and shine they did. Providing slow burn friends to lovers tension and all of the feels. While these two formed a friendship during the IHOS timeline, we as the reader got to see the breadcrumbs of future love spreading. Hannah has always had dreams of creating the score/soundtracks for films. Oh and a long time crush on the director she works for as a PA. Sadly, she’s been stuck in side character mode in her life. Reluctant to take the leap to leading lady, because she’s just so good at being on the sidelines. Fox has been labeled the pretty faced, heartbreaker since he was young and has spent the better part of his life living up to those expectations. Hannah makes him want to be more than that reputation and people’s low expectations of him. Hannah and Fox together build each other up and give each other the confidence to break out of the roles they were placed in and kept themselves in, all while falling in love. I loved this story so much, because we are really shown how much these two care about each other. They are friends first, and really love and lift each other up that way. Even though they want each other so badly, they keep that on the sidelines until they are both ready. The unrelieved tension at times was unbearable, but totally worth it in the end. These two do have some internal push and pull that will send your head spinning, but all the sweet moments, emotional moments, and steamy moments more than even out the angst. Add in the fact that we are back in Westport with some of our faves from book one, and this is just a good read that gave exactly what it needed to give. So, if you’re looking for friends to lovers and a story where the characters grow individually and together, then ‘Hook, Line, and Sinker’ has what you need. While I don’t know that you HAVE to read book one to catch up with this one, I highly recommend that you do. The first tastes of this love story start there, and I guarantee you’ll be a little sad you didn’t start there first! “You make me feel like I’m in the exact right place,” He exhaled into her neck kissing it reverently. “Nothing to run or hide from. Nothing I want to avoid.” TikTok - https://vm.tiktok.com/TTPdYbvgEL/ TikTok - https://vm.tiktok.com/TTPdAJekR8/ **I want to note this is written in third person POV. I personally love the way Tessa Bailey does 3PPOV, but I know many people want a heads up! AVAILABLE MARCH 1, 2022! *ARC

Updated Review: 4.5 stars Ahh there's so much I want to say but this book JUST came out and I don't want to spoil it. This was simultaneously nothing like I expected and everything I was looking for. Just based off the previous book in the series and the premise of this one, I already knew I'd love the tropes and characters, but I honestly didn't expect so much depth from this book. Don't get me wrong, I adored the sweeping grand gestures in It Happened One Summer, but the emotional growth, maturity, and intimacy in Hook, Line, and Sinker undoubtedly displayed stronger and more realistic writing (that being said I still love both books, they just have very different tones). Hannah and Fox so obviously love and yearn to protect one another, but they each grappled with intimacy and trust issues (themes that I personally loveeee). Although their love for each other was beautifully over the top and clearly fictitious, their struggles and insecurities felt very real. Having them simultaneously fight for their connection, but also suppress their true feelings was a really solid plot. Overall this was such a swoon worthy, yet mature friends-to-lovers romance. I love the dramatics of bold, untethered, open-hearted pining, such as in It Happened One Summer, but the constant subtle moments in Hook, Line and Sinker and quiet, yet earnest pining was genuinely touching. I'm so sad this series is over, but incredibly happy I stumbled upon it in the first place. (also, side note, I can't believe in all the reviews I've seen from people who got arcs of this the only thing they mentioned was the smut. don't get me wrong, the smut was good and I'm sure it will be a selling point for tons of readers, but this is a slowwww burn and the characters and emotional growth were undoubtedly the highlight of the book) Pre-Read: the things I would do to have this book in my hands rn 😩😩

You guysssssss Tessa Bailey does it again!! After absolutely adoringggg It Happened One Summer, I knew I wanted to get my hands on this one ASAP and let me just say, I lovedddd it!! If you like friends to lovers, then this is the book for you. I'm not always the biggest fan of that trope because a lot of the time I don't understand why the couple isn't together from the very beginning, but I really didn't have an issue with it in this one. At the beginning of this story, Hannah comes back to Westport for work and needs a place to stay so she ends up staying with Fox, her friend that she met in the first book. Gotta love a good forced proximity trope. It's interesting that while the first book had a lot of firey chemistry and banter, this book was much more of a slow build, which felt raw and incredibly realistic. But don't get me wrong, it's still a Tessa Bailey novel so it still had lots of spice and tension. There was also some great commentary on masculinity and how people can respond to being inappropriately sexualized. As Sarah MacLean would say, she really took the finger with this one!! I have always liked Tessa Bailey's work, but after these two books, I have decided that I will basically read anything she puts out next. ARC provided by the publisher through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. All thoughts and opinions are my own 7/28: I just got an arc of this and im screaming!!!!!

WOW…. I DON’T EVEN KNOW HOW TO DESCRIBE THIS BEAUTIFUL BOOK. After meeting Hannah & Fox in IHOS, I was very excited to read their book. I never would’ve expected to fall in love with them the way that I did (I literally cried happy tears at the epilogue). Their dynamic was everything and I love a good friends to lovers story. This book made me smile so hard and ugh I just love this couple so much. If I could give this book more than 5 stars… I would because it was simply just so amazing. “You can’t live life worrying about what people will think. You’ll wake up one day, look at the calendar, and count the days you could have spent being happy. With her.”

What caught my attention about this book was the cover, isn't it just gorgeous?!! But don't be fooled, this is a dark story, but the type of dark I do enjoy. I have no love for dark romance, it is usually too disturbing to me, but I think Julie Soto found the perfect spot here. Rose in Chains will satisfy dark fantasy/romance readers as well as just the usual enjoyer of fantasy. That being said, look at the triggers first, please, just to be safe. Rose in Chains is a great fantasy, I would go as far as to say this has potential to be as big as Fourth Wing(it is also heaps better). It is a page turner, I just needed to know what was next. We start in the middle of the action, and to my surprise it maintained that pace throughout the whole book. We follow Briony, a princess, who has her world overturned when a country kills the heir and enslaves her people. The book is filled with political intrigue, sizzling romance(that is also a slow[er] burn, in a romantasy! look at that!!) and action. It is a brilliant introduction to what I know will be a fantastic new trilogy. Read it as soon as possible if you are craving a good romantasy, you won't be disappointed! Thank you Forever and Hachette for the ARC!

I feel like a total fangirl with a massive crush on this electrifying start to what promises to be a perfect enemies-to-lovers romantasy trilogy. And wait for it—this book is written by none other than Julie Soto, the genius behind "Not Another Love Song," which I loved so much I read three times (despite my never-ending TBR pile)! So yes, you can imagine me doing an awkward yet passionate cheer routine in my living room to celebrate this book. Hooray! This story delivers on every level—strong female friendships, resilience in the face of adversity, and a world that refuses to let women wield power. Briony Rosewood is everything I love in a heroine: brilliant, courageous, and unfairly forced into the shadows of her twin brother Rory, the so-called chosen one. She’s more powerful, more strategic, and yet relegated to a supporting role—until fate intervenes and changes everything. Her time at the academy makes it clear just how exceptional she is—so much so that she catches the attention of the smug, silver-haired Toven Hearst, a charismatic enigma who has the power to set her heart racing and her temper flaring in equal measure. But the prophecy fails, Rory dies, and Briony finds herself imprisoned with fellow captives, including her former rival, Larissa. What follows is a brutal auction where Briony is sold to the highest bidder—none other than her old adversary, Toven, whose family is notorious for their cruelty. With no allies and no freedom, Briony must play a dangerous game to survive, escape, and reclaim her destiny. But unexpected alliances and undeniable attraction blur the lines between friend and foe. Can she trust Toven, or is he the enemy she’s sworn to destroy? The twists in this book left me gasping, the tension had me screaming, and that cliffhanger? I’m still trying to recover! The world-building is immersive, the characters are deeply compelling, and the pacing is so gripping that I found myself glued to the pages until the very end. This is easily one of the best romantasy books of the year, standing tall among an already stellar lineup of releases. If you love slow-burn, high-stakes romance with masterfully crafted intrigue and a protagonist you’ll root for with your whole heart, this book is for you. I am beyond excited for the next installment and am already counting down the days! Five radiant, rose-covered stars from me! Many thanks to NetGalley and Forever (Grand Central Publishing) for sharing this brilliant ARC in exchange for my honest review. Follow me on medium.com to read my articles about books, movies, streaming series, astrology: medium blog instagram facebook twitter<

“𝑻𝒐𝒗𝒆𝒏 𝑯𝒆𝒂𝒓𝒔𝒕 𝒔𝒊𝒎𝒑𝒍𝒚 𝒇𝒐𝒓𝒈𝒐𝒕 𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒎𝒂𝒏𝒏𝒆𝒓𝒔 𝒂𝒈𝒂𝒊𝒏.” “𝑾𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒎𝒂𝒏𝒏𝒆𝒓𝒔?” 𝒉𝒆 𝒄𝒂𝒍𝒍𝒆𝒅 𝒂𝒇𝒕𝒆𝒓 𝒉𝒆𝒓, 𝒆𝒄𝒉𝒐𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒐𝒘𝒏 𝒘𝒐𝒓𝒅𝒔. “𝑰’𝒎 𝒏𝒐 𝒈𝒆𝒏𝒕𝒍𝒆𝒎𝒂𝒏, 𝑰’𝒗𝒆 𝒃𝒆𝒆𝒏 𝒕𝒐𝒍𝒅.” I know the title is Rose in Chains but the person who was chained to this book was ME because I couldn't stop reading, okay. Period. 😭🔗 THIS BOOK MAMMAAAA I WANT MOREEEE 😩🔥 I knew I was gonna love it just because Julie Soto wrote it, but then people told me it is enemies-to-lovers & THEN it had the we are from two different sides of the war energy?? YES YES AND YES 🙂‍↕️💜 The story is about a world where you have the Eversuns and the Bormardi, where tensions are always high but they try to live in peace. All children switch schools every year for neutrality… well, outside the school, there's still tension, and boom the Bormardi decide to start a war. Time moves forward… the war ends… and the Bormardi won. And what do they do to the Eversuns? Well… the women are to be auctioned 🫢 IF THAT DOESN’T CONVINCE YOU?! GOD. WHAT ELSE CAN I SAY!!! 😭✨ Briony ➵ the princess of the Eversuns, always seen as the spare or the background, but the war changes everything. Her character development in this entire book is freaking amazing from “my brother needs me” to “I can do this myself” AGH WHAT A BADASSSSS 🔥👑 Toven ➵ this MAN!!!!!! He is an onion with a lot of layers and you get to see him bit by bit and I’m here for it 🥹 and the way he unravels himself upon Briony?? Goddammit this is making me want to do a reread 🫠 Even if he’s part of an “evil” family, you start to notice how there’s so much more than meets the eye, and Briony slowly realizes who Toven really is 😭💔 Not only is the romance freaking amazing, but the fantasy is spot-on for us wizard lovers 💫 and the plot is SO GOOD. Like, take away the romance and I swear I’d still buy this book just for the world-building and plot alone ✨ 🌟 5 STARS ALL AROUND 🌟 now gimme the next one, thanks 😌📚💜 tropes 💜 enemies to lovers 💜 forced proximity 💜 3rd POV 💜 past and present timeline 💜 hate to love 💜 cliffhanger (duh) Thank you Forever Publishing for my eARC ⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆.⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆. ➳ 𝗽𝗿𝗲-𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱｡ꪆৎ ˚⋅ ya girl has the ARC and have a already a buddy reading lined up with my girl Kaitlyn because if not I would devour and lose sleep since is Julie Soto

YES YES YES WE HAVE NEVER BEEN MORE BACK BABY ♾️⭐️ oh my god this book has reawakened my love for fantasy books i am OBSESSED . this book was so addicting from start to finish i never wanted it to end. i had been holding off on starting the auction until i could read this book as i didnt want to go into it with any form of preconceived notions, i didnt want to have the ability to nitpick any aspect of the plot of this book and oh my god all it did was make me even more excited to start my journey with the fic like i have been VIBRATING with excitement for it 😂 as this is the year of dramione fics getting reworked and trad published the big question on everyones mind is “will the book be able to stand on its own without the previous bones?” and i am so excited to say that rose in chains ABSOLUTELY knocked it out of the park where this is concerned!! what i loved about the fact that it feels completely original is that you could still pick up on some vibes are far as characters go, it made it really fun for me when someone new was introduced and i got to contemplate “is this person actually xyz?!”. i loved that this book kept me guessing as to what was going to happen and who was actually on what side of this war, there were so many times i felt conflicted on what i should feel towards certain characters. the book had me in shambles constantly on the edge of my seat 😩 and the romance my GAAAWD, julie had me devouring any little crumb of them she was willing to give me 🤭 it is a SLOW burn (like mariana zapata levels of evil slow burn LOL) so do prepare yourselves on that. this is a true enemies to lovers (but they’ve always harbored secret feelings bc of course), a “we shouldnt be doing this”, forced proximity, YEARNING LIKE NO OTHER 😭😭 the tension was so palpable between them through out the entire book, i literally have the zoomies just thinking about how their relationship will develop movies forward in the other books 🤭 the cliffy at the end had me SCREAMING as i had been hoping for what occurred since about 1/3rd into the book and i was extremely gagged by the information we gleaned from the scenario made me so giddy, i am just gnawing at the gates on my enclosure to somehow magically get my hands on book two as soon as possible 😩 ~~~~~~~ 6/20: doing a reread via audio and i couldnt be MORE excited to be back in this world already, i fear for how feral ill be for book two after doing it once again finished reread 7/1: above i have put my review for the story itself as this is a reread for me via audiobook so this’ll just be my opinions on that. unfortunately for me i did not care for the narrator at all, she really took away from the story for me because of how over exaggerated the acting felt. during my first read with the ebook i loved briony the entire time, through the audio briony felt very whiny and borderline annoying. i didnt mind the narrations she did for token and the rest of the supporting characters but as this is told entirely through brionys pov it was very hard to stay engaged with her and the audiobook in general. this is obviously going to have no effect on my rating or feelings towards the book as i still love it wholeheartedly but moving forward with the rest of the series it will be strictly an ebook/physical read for me! i absolutely can’t wait for the next two books!!

I received an e-copy and an audio copy of this book via NetGalley (thank you, Forever (Grand Central Publishing) and Hachette Audio). All thoughts and opinions are my own. ✅ Dark vibe ✅ Dramione / Manacled vibe ✅ Great MC ✅ Morally grey love interest ✅ Complex family dynamics (I love Toven's parents) ✅ Magic ✅ World-building ✅ Politics and scheming ✅ Slow-burn / Sexual tension ✅ Strong female friendships/bonds ❗️❗️Cliffhanger ❗️❗️Trigger warnings: death of loved ones, murders, and some blood, threats of sexual abuse, and mentions of sexual assault, imprisonment, sterilization without consent, mild bullying, human trafficking, public execution, and captivity 🔥 Spice level : 🌶️🌶️ / 5 _______________________ Second read/listen: I am still in love with this book, and I can't wait to get my hands on the second book. The audiobook is great, the narrator does a wonderful job, and she has a gorgeous British accent on top of it. _______________________ This is the kind of book that stays on your mind for days or weeks after you are done with it. Am I still obsessed with this book 2 months later and requested an audio-arc too? Yes, I did. 😅 When Briony’s twin, the King of Evermore, dies in the war against Bomard, Briony finds herself captive of the Bomardis, with other Eversun citizens. They are sold in an auction, so rich Bomardi can buy them to use them as heartsprings, meaning they will be able to steal their life force to boost their magic, and do anything else they wish with their new slaves. When Briony is bought by none other than her school’s bully, Toven Hearst, she is terrified and relieved at the same time. With no allies and very little freedom, Briony must find a way to survive the cruelty that awaits her, and find a way to escape and join the Eversun resistance, but the more time she spends at the Hearst’s estate, the more complicated her situation becomes, and the more conflicted she is about Toven and his family’s role in the war. I was hooked from the start. This book has a clear Dramione vibe, and I loved every minute of it. It also reminded me of Manacled a little bit. The whole being held captive by the morally grey character with whom she shares a past, with complicated feelings, being on opposite sides of a war, but realizing that it is more complicated than it seems, and that the “bad guy” who owns her might not be that bad in the end. I have not read The Auction yet, so I cannot say how similar it is to the Fanfiction the author originally wrote, but you can definitely see the Dramione influence in this book. "I have not yet seen the future that I most wish for, but I am hopeful. I think a world where we both have choice again is possible." I like that the author did not try to gloss over the darker parts of the story. There are deaths, mentions of torture and sexual abuse, and it is made clear that the situation the Eversuns sold at the auction are in is a horrible one. The interactions Briony has with the Bomardis make us hate some of them with a visceral passion, and I love it when an author manages to make us feel so strongly about characters. The magic system and world-building were great and well presented. There were no major info-dumps, and all the information we got was smoothly delivered through conversation or flashbacks. I love the magic system for its simplicity and its originality. Citizens of Evermore favor mind magic, using the thread of magic between their eyes, whereas the Bomardis use heart magic, depleting their energy to do spells, meaning they often have familiars, or heartsprings that they can siphon for more life force. Both groups can do the same basic spells, but they also have their “specialties”, and I would love to learn more about the way they do magic. The plot does revolve around the politics of Evermore and Bomard, as well as the power games played by the Bomardis, but it is also full of sexual tension and a hint of romance. The author was able to find a good balance between politics, action, and romance to keep us engaged in the story, have a believable bond develop between Briony and Toven, and build a plot complex enough to keep us guessing at what could happen in the next book. Briony Rosewood is amazing. She is fierce, brilliant, and brave, and was forced to live in her twin’s shadow for most of her life, because it would not look good if the Princess showed more magical prowess than the Heir to the kingdom. Briony is the superior magician and strategist, yet she has to pretend to be weaker than her brother, but instead of being angry about it, she does her best to help her brother. We didn’t see much of their bond, sadly, but it felt so strong and pure, it was beautiful, and a little heartbreaking too to see how supportive she was, and how little recognition she got, despite being so strong and wonderful. Briony is a relatable main character who is inspiring, but also flawed, and I can’t help but admire her strength and resiliency. Toven Hearst is a mystery that we can’t help but fall in love with. He is a very strong magic user, rich and charismatic, and he was kind of a bully during Briony and his years at school, but the more we see of him, the more it becomes obvious that his cold persona is a façade that hides complex emotions and motives. It was not a secret for us readers that he had a crush on Briony at school; there were hints in the flashbacks, but I loved seeing him try to balance his feelings for Briony, his need to save her, his obligation to Bomard, and his desire to keep his family safe. Toven has many walls, and we could see Briony slowly, but surely breaking them as the story progressed. Toven is what I would call a lovable, morally grey character. He has to act a certain way in public and do certain things to keep Briony and his family as safe as possible. He is fiercely loyal to his parents, and I can’t wait to see how he will navigate his relationship with Briony, now that it’s about to become even more complicated. ❗️❗️Mild spoilers about Toven’s family dynamic in the next paragraph.❗️❗️ I can’t speak about Toven without also mentioning how much I love his parents. They are Bomardi elite, yet we can see that they do not adhere to everything Bomardis say or do against Evermore. I adored the layers both Serena and Orion had. Serena first appeared as this cold, aristocratic woman, but she ended up showing a sweeter side to Briony and cared for her as much as she could in her tough situation. Orion hates Briony for the complications she brings into their life because, just like Serena, he realizes what Briony means to Toven, and despite his desire to get rid of Briony, Orion would do anything for his family and his son’s happiness. This fragile balance of hidden sweet and caring moments from Serena and fiercely protective and brutal confrontations from Orion created a complex, but wholesome family dynamic. ❗️❗️End of mild spoilers.❗️❗️ There are a few flashbacks, and I am not usually a fan of those, but they were well integrated into the book, and there were not too many either. There also served a purpose besides showing us Briony’s time at the Academy with her brother and the Bomardis. The flashbacks showed us how exceptional Briony is, but how she would tone down her powers and erase herself to let her brother shine, but they also showed us the complex dynamic that was present between Briony and Toven from early on. Toven had to play the bully in front of his Bomardi friends, but when he was alone with Briony, he was not so bad. There was also a competitive strike between them from the start, and it was cute to see that despite the tensions between them because of Toven’s superiority complex, they were also able to share a few sweeter moments. Didion was a comfortable choice. Safe. Kind. Her father would have been happy to see her married to Didion Winchester. Her brother, too. Briony often wondered why she didn’t want comfortable, safe, kind. This is a slowburn romance, with a lot of sexual tension. Romantic-wise, nothing “real” happens between Briony and Toven until the very end of the book, but there was so much tension between them from the start. We could see through the flashbacks that they both had a crush on each other, but couldn’t act on it because Toven had to keep up the pretense in front of his friends who despised the Eversuns, and Briony would not admit to finding one of her bullies cute. Briony slowly learns to trust Toven, and in return, he slowly opens up to her during her time at the Hearst manor, but while it is obvious to us readers that they are both attracted to and have deeper feelings for each other, the way things were at the end of the book does not promise a smooth sailing romance for them. There is already some angst and pining; he is holding her at arm’s length to protect her, and she is desperate for some meaningful human interaction. I am very eager to see how they will navigate all these complicated feelings in the next book. Female strong friendship is a theme that was more present than I expected in this book. Briony might be alone and captive at the Hearst manor, but whenever she would see other Eversun captives, they would find a small way to show each other support. To remind each other that they were not alone. This resilience in the face of adversity was admirable and very touching. Seeing that some Bomardi women were also willing to put their jobs, safety, and lives at risk to secretly help the Eversun captive showed another kind of strength and courage. It was a collection of small gestures, but those quick moments were what kept Briony going, what gave her some hope that there were good people out there, and that they would eventually find a way out of this horrible situation. I am also curious about Finn, because he was aware of Toven’s secrets, and played the game of the cruel Bomardi in public just like Toven did, but it is clear that he is not a cold and cruel man, and I am wondering just how much he wants to help the Eversuns, and just how involved he will be in the rest of the series. I could go on for a while about this book. I devoured it and adored it. It’s been a few days, but I am still thinking about it, and it made me want to go back down the Dramione rabbit hole because of the dark vibe and the amazing but complex dynamic of Toven and Briony. If you are looking for your next dark romantasy, with a slow burn, a lot of pining and sexual tension, complex relationships, and a good mix of magic, romance, and politics, this is the book for you! Follow me on Instagram 🙂

WHAT A MASTERPIECE!! Major Hermione & Draco energy that had me feening, gasping and salivating! Hands down top romantasy of the year for me! ✨🌹🖤🌹✨🌹🖤🌹✨ Briony is a magical princess turned captive & auctioned off to her school’s bully THAT SHE HAS A MAJOR CRUSH ON! Her kingdom just lost a war and among the devastation Briony and remaining women were captured to be auctioned off for their magic 🌹✨ Briony refuses to give up and encounters allies in the most unlikely places! The dynamic between the main characters was just SUBLIME! As her school bully Toven worked tirelessly to tease her but his post-war character seems colder, more secretive and protective 🖤 And as much as she hates herself for it Briony girl is still very much in her feelings for him. Moments that made me FEEL: 🌹 when Toven has to show his friends that he “mastered her” (think Rysand & Feyra under the mountain and a bunch of fairy wine) 🖤 the rebellion and strength of women to preserve 🌹 when he TAKES her first dance at a state dinner & his relentless teasing can’t kind the longing in his eyes 🖤 she loses all self-preservation instincts whenever he is near 🌹 HOTTEST MIND BATTLE to ever be written! She tries to pretend she’s super experienced and obviously has given so many BJs in her life and his response is to look into her mind and say “okay SHOW ME” *AaAAaaaAaaaa* Impeccable writing! Words cannot describe how captivated I was by this story. I loved the magical world and the contrast between heart & mind magic ✨ I’m excited to see what the Hearst family is hiding and how Briony’s journey continues. I will be hibernating until the second book comes out next summer! dark(ish) urban romantasy bully romance captive fmc slow burn 🔥 yearning *on both sides secrets & mysteries magical school post war atrocities modern spice language (hell yeah!) past & current (single) POV *cliffhanger

4.5⭐ I'll start by saying that I haven’t read The Auction, which this book is based on, so I had no idea what to expect. I simply enjoyed Briony and Toven’s story without comparing the two books. At the beginning, it took me a little time to remember all the characters, but after that, I couldn’t put it down. I loved the fictional world, the magic system, the atmosphere, and that incredible slow burn that keeps you reading, craving just a few more crumbs of their growing attraction. The dark moments also added intensity to the story—I was thrilled by how Toven protected Briony from others and refused to share her🔥 I think Julie Soto did a fantastic job because this book feels completely unique. The ending is intriguing, so now I can’t wait for the second book! 𝐓𝐫𝐨𝐩𝐞𝐬: 🥀 dark romantasy 🥀 enemies to lovers 🥀 forced proximity 🥀 slow burn My aesthetic on Instagram Thank you to NetGalley and Forever for the ARC in exchange for my honest review. All opinions are my own.

4.5⭐️ The tension and yearning was delicious! This was truly slow burn, I kept screaming just kiss already! But of course due to circumstances it made sense to be slow burn. This is dark so check trigger warnings etc but I am known to love a dark fantasy so this was amazing. It jumped straight in there in the beginning and took off running, I really enjoyed the flashback chapters as well because it added context to their relationship as well as helped me get to know side characters, they also felt short so I thought they were balanced well with present time. I was on the edge of my seat at the end, scared for them which is how I know I’m invested. I hope book 2 is dual pov or even multiple povs because I want to see what the side characters are up to as well, specifically Sammy. Excited to continue this series and hear more about this dragon…

** spoiler alert ** First off, please, please, please take the author's trigger warnings seriously. Some parts of the book are terribly difficult to get through. But if you push on, I promise it is worth the effort. Once you get past the horrific treatment of the Heartsprings, the author weaves an incredible tale of the beginnings of a rebellion. This fast paced novel, kept me up way past bedtime but I could just not put it down. It is going to be a long wait for the 2nd book, but I will be anxiously waiting. There is magic of all kinds here and a dragon 😀 who will play a much larger role in forthcoming books in this trilogy, if the epilog proves true.

5 stars, no notes. Well besides can I get book two now pls 🥰 The YEARNING for me in this was everything. I don’t typically use that word but to me that’s what this felt like. The way they clearly both wanted eachother and wanted to move farther but couldn’t. And how we saw the little snippets of the memories through the past chapters. That really made me understand the small moments they’ve had over the years to give them these current feelings. BUT also the small moments they were still having UHG chefs kiss incredible. But also the convo on woman’s bodies in this I also thought was well done. It’s darker so it’s more of a critique on how society views us and takes it away. But I loved the moments where we saw the women fight back and give hope. AND UHG BRILLIANT BEAUTIFUL. I thought there was depth to the characters and their decisions. I thought the world was cool to learn about. I loved the mind magic VS the heart magic. I loved that you could do both if you wanted to learn but prejudice was why people didn’t. Felt like a refreshing take. I’m absolutely obsessed with the rebellion vibes, the secrets and the take it all down by playing the game that you were dealt FUCK ITS GOOD! This and the thrashers being 5 stars for me, Julie Soto is quickly becoming a favourite author. Now G2G read forget me not to read another five star.

What in the cliffhanger?? What will I do while I wait for this next book?? This next book could possibly be one of my most anticipated books quite literally ever. I am blown away. Julie Soto is going to wreck us all I fear. 😭😭😭

The way this book was so good it actually stuck itself in between the folds of my brain!!! TENSION AND YEARNING?! Yeah Julie did that. Adding this to the list of chokehold books because I could not put this down for the life of me!!!!

Rose in Chains by Julie Soto ⭐️ 4.75 stars Tropes & Themes: 🔹 Enemies to lovers 🔹 Captive/prisoner romance 🔹 Grumpy x defiant 🔹 Magic stripped away 🔹 Dark fantasy rebellion 👑🖤🔥 ⸻ Okayyy Julie Soto really said “what if the villain wins” and ran with it. 😮‍💨 Rose in Chains was a dark, gripping fantasy romance that totally surprised me in the best way. The story kicks off after Briony, princess of Evermore is captured and sold off in a brutal magical auction (like… literal nightmare fuel 😳) Briony is such a strong main character. Even with her magic stripped and thrown into enemy territory, she refuses to be broken. And then we meet Toven Hearst, her new “owner” (hate that word but it’s what it is 😬) and somehow I was instantly intrigued?? He’s cold, unreadable, and dangerous… but there’s something going on beneath the surface. Classic grumpy-with-tragic-backstory energy 🖤 Their dynamic is slow burn, full of tension, and toeing the line between enemies and something way more complicated. I loved the power shifts, the hints of rebellion brewing, and Briony’s constant fight to hold on to hope even in the darkest situations. Plus, the worldbuilding was unique, gritty, and emotionally intense in a way that kept me flipping pages. The only reason it’s not a full 5 stars is because the pacing was a little slow in the middle and I really needed more of the magic system fleshed out. But the vibes? So dark and good. ⸻ Final Thoughts: If you’re into morally gray love interests, fantasy worlds where evil has already won, and a heroine who refuses to quit even when everything is against her, Rose in Chains is absolutely worth picking up. It’s dark, angsty, and addictively tense in the best way ⚔️🖤🌹

4.5 stars!!! so basically i need this book injected in my veins i didn’t think it would be possible but this book somehow converted me into a dramione shipper 😳🫣 i don’t think i can wait a whole year for the second book after that ending i never read the og harry potter fanfic but i could tell which characters names had been changed etc etc BUT only because i had an insane harry potter obsession for seven years sooo but yeah the author did a really good job of the world building and creating a whole universe of her own! there were parts where i was disgusted about what they were going through, parts where i was kicking my legs and giggling, parts where i was frantically flipping pages to see what happens next. it had it all!!! i loved the relationships between characters that are developed, particularly briony and serena 🥰🥰🥰 - i do wish it had more character descriptions other than freaking toven - i wish it had less flashbacks -DESCRIPTIONS OF HER SURROUNDINGS!!! this was a big one because it was such a missed opportunity to develop the world building with things like fashion and architecture i would say 15/16+ for this one because it’s a very heavy read overall a very entertaining read and i’m pretty satisfied! sorry i don’t really know how to write pretty reviews 😞 🥀⛓️

4.5 ⭐️ I need the second book right now!! After that epilogue, I don’t know how I’m supposed to wait 1.5 years for it 😭😭 Can’t wait to read Toven’s POV in the next book 😭😭

"I have not yet seen the future that I most wish for, but I am hopeful. I think a world where we both have choice again is possible." NOOO IT CAN'T JUST END THERE, I NEED BOOK 2 PLEASE IM BEGGING. I have to wait for 2026 and beyond now?? Just no??? Like that epilogue made me so so happy (why did i almost tear up help) even though I suspected it (though the other part was such a surprise I didn't see that and it gives so much hope🥹), I love this book so much🆘. Rose in Chains had me feeling absolutely hooked from the very first page. The way my heart stopped and felt immense fear just immediately?? I will admit, I did not read the synopsis either so the things that were happening in the beginning just had me shocked and sad because wow?? But this book seriously had me in its hold from the beginning. To no one's surprise, I fell in love with Briony Rosewood right away and actually found her character to be relatable and very admirable, I LOVE HER. She loves so deeply and is such a strong, smart and loyal character!! I love the decisions she would make, they were so understandable. And the way she sacrificed so much of herself for her brother... all for that to happen. My heart hurt for her in so many scenes and also for so many other characters like hello!!! I NEEDED a few certain characters to have long, painful deaths, I was feeling sooo murderous. My book 2 wishes are for Mallow, Reighven, Collins, Liam, Canning, Gains, and some other bastards I'm forgetting to die horrible deaths. Oh but TOVEN HEARST THE MAN THAT YOU ARE!!! Bomardi men are TRASH... unless you're a Hearst or Raquin🥰 And I know we've only scratched the surface into Toven's character but I'm literally in love with him. The lengths he would go for to keep Briony safe?? And all those comforting moments gahh my heart. (view spoiler) The wall he keeps putting up though pains my BrionyToven loving heart but I know the wait will be soo worth it (also laughed so much because Larissa was so losing her mind watching those two please.) Also shoutout to so many of the side characters like I adore so many of them?? Larissa!! I did NOT expect to love her. And the Hearst family omg my favs!! Their love for one another (especially in a world where for some reason a lot of these families are awful???) and protectiveness!!! I will genuinely be sad if any one of them dies😭 (view spoiler). Then Finn!! Granted he didn't really appear too much but he was funny and a good person. Also a lot of the Eversuns like Phoebe?? The admiration I have for her strength!! (That scene with the grapes🥹) And Cordelia?? She is such a queen omg and I'm so scared for her. Literally all the Eversun women... it was genuinely depressing and sickening seeing their situations so I definitely urge everyone to really make sure you check the trigger warnings! Okay and I have to talk about the romance oh my god the absolutely agonizing tension and slow burn (like a genuine slow slow burn oh when I tell you how the author was torturing us and I loved it (view spoiler))??? I was OBSESSED. Briony and Toven have my heart and soul like WHY ARE THEY SO ADORABLE??? The yearning?? They are sooo in love with each other, they are soulmates you cannot convince me otherwise. They had me grinning like an idiot. And the flashback chapters just made their relationship even better because oh my god the progression of their relationship and the scenes they had?? I would literally read a whole book going into details about their academy days. And just the vulnerable moments?? The silly little games they would play against one another (racing to be the first one to the willow tree, like why are they so cute omg)?? The arguments, the awkward moments (please when Serena walked in on them during that one dinner scene help😭)--literally everything was golden. Briony and Toven genuinely have me in a chokehold, YOUR HONOR I AM IN LOVE WITH THEM. And can I just gush about the magic system and world?? What a unique concept, I loved it!! The differences between mind magic and heart magic users was so so interesting. The tensions between the Bomardi and Eversuns!! The political aspect!! Oh my gosh I am always a sucker for political fantasy and going into this, I didn't realize how much of a huge focus this would have on it, I love it!! And again, I adore the way we went back and forth between past and present with chapters, I felt like it was done perfectly and it really always left me wanting to know more about what happened in each time period!! The writing in this book was overall just amazing, I loved it. Also one quick note, but I've seen a lot of people not want to read Rose in Chains because of its ties with fanfiction (which is valid!) and though I don't read fanfiction, but if anyone's worried I can 100% say this reads perfectly on its own. I actually was excited originally because I've heard so much about Julie Soto (but don't read contemporaries) and really wanted to try a fantasy book of hers! Otherwise I genuinely wouldn't have known there was similarities to the author's fanfiction, had I not seen literally the whole world talking about it. Anyways I'm so happy one of my 2025 most anticipated reads was such a hit!! This was my first Julie Soto book and it certainly won't be the last. (Definitely going to give her contemporaries a shot one day!!) You better believe I will be begging on my knees for an ARC of book 2 once that's available. (Also makes me so so excited that this book was chosen for a subscription box like yes!! GIVE IT TO ME) Thank you Forever Publishing for sending me ARC via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review!!

« She couldn’t believe there was a woman in the world who would wish such things on another woman. » This book was deeply unsettling. The first 125 pages were so triggering (despite knowing the TW) - that I thought about DNFing because I was highly unsettled. But I simply could not put this book down for longer than a few minutes. It was so addicting and I just needed to know what happened. My heart was constantly IN MY THROAT and I was just so damn anxious! Bravo to the author. Her writing is phenomenal. It was a 4 stars read until the last 160 pages or so. I gasped a few times and was just overwhelmed by so many things. The slow burn was slow burning ❤️‍🔥. I haven’t read a good slow burn like this in a while. The found family really made me tear up and the plot & secrets were amazing to read and find out about. I cannot wait for book 2. Now I know everyone probably wants to read this right now but please look at the TW. « Why hadn’t she hugged him goodbye? » « … opening her palm to reveal a plump, ripe grape. She pushed it between her painted lips, her eyes burning with the fire of a revolution. »

4.5 ⭐️ Okay yes this was dark but hear me out… I ATE THIS BOOK UP.

** spoiler alert ** OKAY!!!! I will admit that the first 35% of this book had me so confused & lost but I’m SO happy I stuck with it. In regular fantasy I have learned to just pretty much accept not knowing what is going on for at least the first 25% of the book and that’s definitely what I felt here. I went into this book with zero context (like I didn’t know anything about the fic & I didn’t even read this synopsis before starting) and I honestly think that made my confusion worse bc other than “romantasy” I didn’t know AT ALL what to expect. But now in hindsight - things make SO much sense. I honestly think the huge cast of characters in the very beginning is what had me so confused bc like who ARE all of these people?! But as I said before - I took the fantasy reading approach of “if something matters it will be brought up again” Things I liked: 1. Dynamic between FMC & MMC: I knew immediately that Toven was searching that castle battle for her so he could save her. So I spent the rest of the book with that mindset & it made every interaction that more delicious 2. Love him but the name Toven is just…. not for me 3. FMC overall: Why is it so hard for me to remember her name? Anyways - I appreciated her character so much by the end of the book (a smart queen that thinks things through !!! <3) Which is something that I do not often find myself saying in romantasy bc so often FMC’s are either solely focused on becoming a badass warrior or are off making a string of the worst decisions imaginable. This was a breath of fresh air from that perspective. 4. Reader worries: I am a little nervous for the regular romantasy audience to read this because aspects of this book are DARK. Like Hunting Adeline level dark. Like the deep depths of Kindle Unlimited dark. So I hope as it gets closer to the release that there is more talk about those aspects of the story in the form of trigger warnings, etc. Bc everything I’ve seen so far has been “another romantasy <33” which is simply not the vibe for the first 50% of this book 5. All of Toven’s friends except for Finn - someone please kill these fuckers. In a painful way preferably 6. Mind & Heart magic: Cool! Cool that the Hearsts (I literally just had to look up Toven’s last name - y’all all these names and I remember none) had both. Cool that it is forbidden. Cool that she also has both. Cool that she murdered a guy in cold blood when the hottie was in danger - I would’ve done the same! 7. Him heart stopping 4 people at once to SAVE HER!! & it was also the first people he killed!!! TO SAVE HER!! And this wasn’t even the climax of the story?! HELL YEAH. I was living for the drama. 8. Rory is dumb <3 9. Rory is alive reveal!! Dragon tie in was AWESOME! Did not see that coming. Glad he’s alive I guess but also kind of loved that he was nice & dumb & died bc of it?? Am I messed up for that? 10. Didson or whatever his name is - he’s too much of a simp & our girl was turned off by him!!! I too would get the ick if a guy took 10 minutes to get my bra off and then STILL couldn’t get figured it out 11. What else what else… OH! Toven’s parents. Why’s his dad kinda hot??? She said he moved like a knife through butter?! SO YOU’RE SAYING HE’S SMOOTH!!!! 12. Serena was nice 13. Toven’s fox going for her jugular would’ve had me absolutely livid & this girl was just like “it’s fine” - I’m sorry I would’ve thrown an absolute fit 14. Mallow girl get some moisturizer, wash your hair, & get the hell out of my faceeee Overall: Very excited to see where this story goes!! I did find the whole fic so may have to read that while I wait for the next books in the series to be released. My instant reaction is to give this about a 4.5-4.75!! Once I sleep on it maybe I’ll have a clearer opinion - right now I’m just hung up on Mallow being kind of a loser??

I have no words. Waiting another year for Book 2 is going to be the worst!! 😭 Finally, an intelligent FMC who doesn’t cower to anyone. The tension. The yearning. This is true enemies to lovers, and I’m so here for it! Here’s hoping that Book 2 releases before Dec 2026!🤞🏻🤞🏻

*insert feral screech* I’m actually sick that I have to wait who knows how long for book 2!!! 😩 Julie really dropped this certified banger on us as if it wouldn’t become my whole personality. This was the perfect start to what I know will grow into a high stakes and nuanced fantasy romance series. The world building was seamless and complex, but still super accessible. The differences in magic, the history of conflict between factions, the fleshing out of our main characters was all laid out and paced in a way that kept the story moving quickly but still filling gaps of knowledge from the past. The sense of danger and horror at the situation Briony’s forced into is heavy and fascinating in a way that had me hooked so quickly. And the tension between her & Toven?? Insane omg. Seriously this book is going to be on my mind for AGES. I received an eARC from Forever and NetGalley.

It was slow but I am HOOKED! I ate this up, and I think I actually like it better than the original fic so far 🤭

The bummer about advanced copies-having to wait even longer for the sequels! I LOVED this book, and am so grateful to Hachette Audio and the great people over at Forever/Grand Central Publishing for letting me listen to this early! The magic system in this is unique, and you definitely need to be paying close attention to keep everything straight as there are so many moving pieces. However, that effort is totally worth it! This is book 1 in a trilogy, which means it is a slooooooow burn in book 1, but there was a lot of depth to the MCs. I think it would be so interesting to hear from multiple POVs in future installments, although I loved Briony’s perspective and the narration was top notch. I am keeping all my fingers and toes crossed that I can get an advanced copy of the sequel, and in the interim will be checking out some of Julie Soto’s other works (even from different genres!).

Julie Soto, you were an auto-buy author before this and now you are the love of my life. Was it unequivocally perfect? No. Did I have the best reading experience from start to finish? Absolutely. This is everything I want in a romantasy, a genre that has honestly lost my interest in the last few years - this reminded me how amazing it can be when it’s done right (also looking at you Knight + Moth my love). This is proper enemies to lovers. Briony and Toven are on opposing sides of a war, but it’s not as simple as all of that of course. They share a complicated history, and Julie does an impeccable job of weaving the past and all of its implications into the present. It felt like slipping into a full formed world that’s been spinning for years, and you’re a traveller who got dropped in the middle of it in all its splendour and terror. Additionally, if I did not know this was a re-working of a Dramione fanfiction, I genuinely do not know if I would work it out on my own. That being said, I haven’t read the Auction, so I can’t speak to a lot of that - but oh my god this was so good, so unbelievably dark, and the slowest of slow burns. I wanted to yell and fling my kindle at the wall when it finished, like what do you mean this book isn’t even out and the sequel has yet to be announced? So, so good. The chemistry, the banter, the flashbacks, the dread, the suspense, the tension, the world building! Julie excels in contemporary romance, so I wasn’t sure what to expect here, but wow, job well done. Completely unputdownable. I walked out of a full-out function yesterday to resume reading this, it would not leave my mind. Massive thanks to the publisher for the ARC, I will now be foaming at the mouth and barking until the sequel is in my hands.

I’m honestly not okay. Julie Soto owns me. I was already obsessed with her writing, but Rose in Chains completely took over my brain. I listened to the audiobook and I refused to press pause. I would have finished it in one sitting if life didn’t get in the way. Briony and Toven are everything. The tension, the flashbacks, the slow burn—it was all perfect. Julie somehow makes every moment feel intense, even the quiet ones. The world is dark and heavy in all the right ways, but still full of hope and fight. And that ending? I need the sequel immediately. I already loved Julie Soto for her contemporary romances, but seeing her crush it in fantasy too? I’m even more obsessed now. The way she builds tension and emotion is unreal. The story, the characters, the magic—it all just worked. This is easily one of my favorite reads of the year. I’ll be thinking about it until book two drops. Thank you to Hachette Audio and NetGalley for the advanced listening copy.

⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ Wow. I’m nearly at a loss for words. This is a tour de force creation for an author, who in my opinion, already defines the crime fiction sub-genre. This is a masterpiece… This story is so intricately told. Every detail is carefully crafted and vividly depicted. I felt like I was in some magical, vicarious voyeur machine that catapulted me into every scene in this book and allowed me to observe with my own eyes. And because I watched each scene firsthand, I also experienced every resulting emotion on a very personal, profound level. I love that we only got one side of the story, and we were just as in the dark as our protagonist was. It amplified the tension and ratcheted up the suspense significantly as a storytelling mechanism. The characters were flawed and believable. Their motivations and actions all made perfect sense. Emmy and Jude amazing and I hope they become the centerpiece of many more novels. I will be reading every single one. I feel very lucky to have been gifted this advanced copy, and I appreciate being able to be part of the hype machine leading up to its release… Thank you to William Morrow Books for the ARC!

Okay. Okay. I get why there’s so much hype around Karin Slaughter now. I mean, We Are All Guilty Here delivered quite the sucker punch of serious thrills and chills, but that feeling was paired with a poignancy that quite literally brought me to tears more than once. From the believably flawed characters to the “WTF?!” twists, my mind was blown by the immersive storytelling of this dark, gritty, and downright twisted tale. A deft mix of police procedural and family drama, I’m already waiting with bated breath to see where Ms. Slaughter takes these characters next. That’s right. It’s just book one in a brand-spanking-new series. A masterclass of finely tuned suspense, it had everything I could want in a truly addictive novel plus a little bit more. Thanks to the dual POVs and the tight-knit tinderbox of a small town, which only felt like yet another character, the past and the present came together with utter precision. On top of that, though, no matter how hard I tried, I simply could not predict even one of these blind twists and turns. And while the events that took place were both intense and disturbing, I had to actually stop myself from skimming just to find out the whos, whats, and whys. Hard-hitting and raw in terms of both the missing persons cases and the drama within these characters’ personal lives, I found myself getting choked up more than once as I put myself in their shoes. After all, not only was the plot filled with plenty of intrigue and shocking secrets, but it all had a realistic feel. All said and done, I was blown away by Slaughter’s ability to dive into the dark heart of humanity. Bringing to life the monsters who live in our midst, this spine-chilling story was both gut-wrenching and riveting. Exploring life-altering trauma and loss, it’s one book that I guarantee not to forget anytime soon. After all, the layers of secrets and lies intertwined with an underlying serial killer premise just unsettling enough to make you quake in your boots. From what I’ve heard, though, it was decidedly less graphic than any of her prior novels. So if I’ve piqued your interest at all, be sure to run out and grab this book ASAP. After all, this messy, dysfunctional family will capture your heart as you watch their lives implode right before your very eyes. Rating of 5 stars. SYNOPSIS: Welcome to North Falls—a small town where everyone knows everyone. Or so they think. Until the night of the fireworks. When two teenage girls vanish, and the town ignites. For Officer Emmy Clifton, it’s personal. She turned away when her best friend's daughter needed help—and now she must bring her home. But as Emmy combs through the puzzle the girls left behind, she realizes she never really knew them. Nobody did. Every teenage girl has secrets. But who would kill for them? And what else is the town hiding? Thank you to Karin Slaughter and William Morrow Books for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own. PUB DATE: August 12, 2025 Content warning: abduction, violence, alcohol abuse, pedophilia, murder, dementia, gun violence, death of a parent, grief, cancer, torture, mention of: violence, rape, grooming

We Are All Guilty Here by Karin Slaughter Happy Book Birthday, August 12, 2025! Genre: Fiction / Thrillers / Suspense Rating: 4.5 ⭐️ Format: Digital ARC Dark secrets, gritty suspense, and fast-paced small-town drama—this was one unputdownable ride! Set in the tightly woven community of North Falls, this gripping series opener introduces Officer Emmy Clifton, a woman burdened by guilt after turning away from her best friend’s daughter when she needed help most. When two teenage girls vanish on the night of the town’s fireworks, Emmy’s personal and professional lives collide. As the investigation unfolds, long-buried truths emerge, and it becomes clear that no one in North Falls is as they seem. It had been a little while since I read a Karin Slaughter novel, and I forgot just how intensely shocking her books can be. She doesn’t hold back from hard-hitting topics or raw, emotional scenes, and while this one felt a little less graphic than some of her previous work, the subject matter was still heavy and, at times, deeply unsettling. It took me a moment to find the right headspace, but once I did, I was completely hooked. I flew through it, even with its longer chapters, which felt layered, deliberate, and absolutely worth the time. This was such an addictive and emotional police procedural, but also a devastating family tragedy. I really enjoyed the character dynamics and the depth of the investigation. The town itself becomes a character—claustrophobic, secretive, and brimming with tension. North Falls may seem close-knit on the surface, but it is fractured underneath, and no one escapes untouched. The story pulses with secrets, trauma, lies, and loss, while also weaving in moments of strength, courage, and fierce determination. Some characters carry their guilt quietly. Others wear it like armour. In North Falls, guilt spreads like wildfire—and no one gets away clean. This was a buddy read that I had the pleasure of reading with Brenda, Carolyn, and Debra from Witches Words, and it was such a thrilling and emotional experience to unravel this mystery together. Please be sure to check out all of their reviews! Thank you to the publisher and Edelweiss+ for the digital ARC. Highly recommend.

Wowza long audio but worth all the hours spent listening Slaughter has done it again!!!!! It’s been quite a while since I have read Karin Slaughter & I ask myself why? OMG what a ride this was so emotional dark & completely compulsive I could not stop listening the narration by Kathleen Early. Was phenomenal. Set in a small town of North Falls everyone is enjoying the fireworks 🧨 as you do but unbeknown to the townsfolk two girls went missing, officer Emmy Clifton feels the guilt after turning her friends daughter away when she needed help,due to this Emmy’s personal & private life gets out of control the guilt is consuming her. The townsfolk know about everything that is going on & Emmy has nowhere to turn, as the story unfolds nothing is as it seems in North Falls! I absolutely loved this book nothing better than a Slaughter novel to keep you invested from start to finish all the mysterious 🌟 🌟🌟🌟🌟

Simply phenomenal!! Karin Slaughter at her best. This took me on such an emotional journey, I think I teared up like 100 times 😂😭😭

Wow! Well done Karin Slaughter, well done!👏👏👏 This deserves all the stars! I’ll be the first to admit I went into this unsure of how I would feel about a new series and a new set of characters. Both the Will Trent and the Grant County series leave very big shoes to fill. I did not need to worry as the small town of North Falls brought with it a whole new set of characters that make us feel right at home. Emmy’s family is well known throughout Clifton County as it was founded by her ancestors. We meet just about all of them that it was hard to keep them straight, but I’m sure it’ll be easier the more we get to know them. During a Fourth of July celebration two teenage girls go missing and Emmy is front and center trying to find the girls. I almost felt like I was riding shotgun with Emmy throughout the investigation. You never know which way the book is going and are following the investigation real time with her. Just when you think you know what’s happening and are settling into the case Slaughter has a way of mentally knocking you down. I’m pretty sure I felt every emotion possible as the case evolved and relationships were revealed. This is one of those books that I wish I could experience reading it for the first time again. Slaughter excels at writing small town intricacies amongst family and the local townspeople. It was very reminiscent of the Grant County series that I love so much except with its own new flare. I absolutely cannot wait to see where this new series goes. Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for my advanced copy in exchange for an honest review

This BOOK is SO fantastic! Just Wow! It took me by surprise and I fell I love with the characters and their relationships. This is an addicting thriller. If you’re looking for an all encompassing, complicated, and curiously addicting mystery, We Are All Guilty Here, by Karen Slaughter hits the sweet spot as she pens an extremely humanizing and addicting thriller-mystery! This book was absolutely unputdownable! Karin Slaughter’s keen ability to take her readers on a journey of discovery is striking! 😳 What can you expect? 👉Writing that is smooth and inviting. 👉Writing that is calm, and alluring. 👉Writing that has layers and depth. 👉Writing that is packed with moments of craze and delirium. 👉Writing that is pliable. Each page had me stumbling and questioning and wondering. I’m telling you, this book is fantastic! A journey full twisted storylines. The characters have relationships that could be your own and their stories are deeply intertwined. The security of your hometown thwarted as 2 local girls go missing. A community is challenged, and friendships broken as truths unfold. A novel that does not skip a beat! Fast forward another 12 years and the nightmare unravels again as another local girl goes missing. Her fate unknown and the race against time begins again! All in the hands of Emmy Lou, a well trained veteran Sheriff Deputy, now acting as Chief! Following leads and tripping up suspects as the Chief’s words, her own father’s words, play again and again in her mind… “What don’t we know?” A definite rollercoaster of a read! This is a thoughtfully written novel with twisty branches on almost every page. It is multi generational novel, full of secrets and thick with history, loyalty and love. Its indelible. I loved this book. I want everyone to read it! It is absolutely a 5⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ read!!!

This is the first in a new mystery series from the brilliant Karin Slaughter -- a magnificently dysfunctional family of sheriffs in a rural Georgia county are the center of the story -- and already I'm excited for whatever comes next for the Clifton family. In a brief first act, two teenage girls disappear the night of the fireworks in North Falls (a town a lot like the Boston bar, Cheers, in that everybody knows your name), and Officer Emmy Clifton and her father Gerald -- the sheriff -- work the clock hard to find them, knowing that if the girls aren't rescued within hours, the odds they'll be found alive sink to almost zero. Flash forward twelve years later to the second and third acts of this Shakespearean drama (with precise, page-turning, police procedural details), and another girl disappears, and once more the clock is ticking. And Emmy is haunted by the mistakes she feels she made over a decade earlier. But what makes WE ARE ALL GUILTY HERE such a treasure are the Cliftons themselves, especially Emmy and her estranged older sister, Jude, who returns from California to help with the investigation, and their ageless aunt, whose cantankerousness grows ever more charming in a weird and wonderful way. How much did I love this novel? Already I can't wait for the next one. (No pressure, Karin, no pressure.)

Lies 💣 Secrets 🤫 Guilt 💔 Grief 😢 What a wild, emotional ride! From the very first page, I was completely pulled in. The small-town setting, the haunting tension, and the tangled web of trauma and truth kept me listening late into the night. 🌙 Karin Slaughter really knows how to dig deep into the human side of crime... the guilt, the fear, and the heartbreak that lingers long after the last chapter. The characters felt so real, flawed, raw, and vulnerable in ways that made me care about every single one of them. Yes, it slowed down a bit in the middle, but the build-up and emotional payoff were worth it. And that ending? Chilling, dramatic, and impossible to forget. 😱 This one left me thinking about right and wrong, love and loss, and the darkness that hides behind closed doors. A gripping, emotional read that proves that we’re all guilty of something. 👏 A solid 4.5⭐️ for me.

'If you don't know what to do, start at the beginning'. Emmy works hard to be as well-respected, as a cop, as her dad, the chief. However, when the small town of North Falls is rocked by a rare double abduction, her police procedural skills, as well as personal involvement, are put to the test. As her investigation delves deeper, it's not only case clues that come to light, but a whole spool of secrets and lies about many of the town residents unravels. This was my first Slaughter book and I was kept on the hook from page one. Although dealing with the grim crimes of psychopaths doesn’t make for light reading, I was fully invested in the police procedural and criminal psychology. I’d definitely pick up another Slaughter book in the future and look forward to seeing where this new series goes next. 'Some people think serial killers make mistakes because they want to get caught, but the real reason is they're as desperate as any other addict...They chase the euphoria'.

LOVED LOVED LOVED Karin Slaughter just gets me. Give me a flawed, furious woman dismantling bad **ahem** men, not just the obvious villains but the ones who really should know better, and I’m in my happy place. I love the thrill, the dogged determination and the I won’t take shit from ANYONE. Women’s friendships and the kind of case born betrayal that shatters them, the consequences brutal, the simmer long, and somehow, impossibly, it still forges something good. We Are All Guilty Here is sharp, propulsive, and full of that signature Slaughter tension that keeps you bargaining with yourself for just a little more. These reads suit a night owl like me. This one threads small town rot with big stakes consequences, and the way it builds a woman’s rage into something righteous? The best. If you’re already a Slaughter girlie, this will pull you in all the ways. (This review is SO late. I’m sorry — the beach won the battle against my laptop and I’m only just resurfacing, and it somehow fell off my spreadsheet 🤦‍♀️) ⚡️⚡️As you can see, this one is still waiting to be plucked from The Suz Eclective STREET LIBRARY IN SYDNEY. Link in my profile 💚📫

"The first thrilling mystery in the new North Falls series from Karin Slaughter. Welcome to North Falls—a small town where everyone knows everyone. Or so they think." On the Fourth of July, two teenage girls go missing from a grassy field next to the fireworks show. Only their bikes and blood remain. for Officer Emmy Clifton, the loss is personal as one of the girls is her best friend's stepdaughter. As she and her father investigate, Emmy realizes that everyone in the town has secrets, including the girls. As the queen of crime, it's no surprise that this had perfect pacing, tension, character development, and plot twists. Slaughter has brilliantly set up the universe for her next series of books.I loved the focus on female characters, their strength, resilience, and how they protect themselves. Slaughter is honest and sensitive about different themes revolving around women. This is gritty at times but never graphic. I am a sensitive reader to violence and found it to be a propulsive page-turner that is well-researched. This is a winner that I highly recommend! I will be first in line for her next book in the series. Many thanks to NetGalley, William Morrow, and Karin Slaughter for an advance reader's copy in exchange for my honest review. ⚠️CW: kidnapping, rape, torture, murder

I’ve long been a fan of Karin Slaughter’s crime novels, known for their gripping blend of suspense, unflinching realism, and well-developed characters. We Are All Guilty Here marks the beginning of a brand-new crime thriller series featuring Officer Emmy Clifton. One of Slaughter’s greatest strengths is her ability to craft compelling characters, and Emmy is no exception. Her flaws and vulnerabilities add depth and make her incredibly relatable. Set in the small town of North Falls, the disappearance of two teenage girls during a Fourth of July fireworks celebration shatters the community’s fragile sense of security. As Officer Emmy Clifton delves into the case, she uncovers shocking truths about the missing girls—secrets that reveal how much people can hide, even in a seemingly close-knit town. With every step of the investigation, Emmy is forced to confront the unsettling realization that no one is as innocent as they seem. Karin Slaughter doesn’t shy away from difficult topics. While the subject matter is intense, it’s handled with sensitivity and care. The setting of North Falls, with its undercurrent of small-town secrets and gossip, creates a palpable sense of claustrophobia. Slaughter masterfully explores the hidden lives of a tight-knit community, peeling back layers of guilt, deception, and complex relationships. The novel delves into the lengths people will go to protect their secrets—and the devastating fallout when those secrets are exposed. What sets Slaughter apart is her meticulous attention to detail, especially in forensic and procedural elements, which lend authenticity to her crime scenes. The plot is gritty, fast-paced, and packed with suspense. If you enjoy stories steeped in small-town intrigue, dark twists, and a relentless narrative, We Are All Guilty Here is a must-read. Highly recommended! You can follow my reviews at Blog: https://thebookreviewcafe.wordpress.com/ Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/thebookrevi... Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/@reviewcafe

the setup… It’s the Fourth of July and most of the town has assembled at the park to watch the fireworks. Newly fifteen year old Madison Dalrymple is supposed to be meeting best friend Cheyenne Baker who had a wicked plan for the two of them that night. When she’s late, Madison goes looking for her and sees what she believes to be the Baker car but as she approaches it’s clear that something is very, very wrong. Later, Deputy Sheriff Emmy Lou Clifton goes looking for Madison who is her best friend’s stepdaughter and gets that unique tingle that this is serious when she finds Madison’s mangled bicycle at the edge of the park. It sets off a series of events that change North Falls forever. the heart of the story… The Clifton family is North Falls royalty, the county bearing the family name. Gerald Clifton, Emmy’s father, is the police chief and they make an impressive team. But this is much more than the search for Madison and Cheyenne, it laying bare the underbelly of the town in the process. The layers are peeled back to expose buried secrets and some not so private. It has Slaughter’s gritty style and messy characters who are both admirable and seriously flawed at the same time. Madison and Cheyenne led secret lives despite having attentive and loving parents who were ill prepared for modern issues. the narration… Kathleen Early has always seemed, at least to me, to be umbilically connected to the author, mastering how to tell these stories just the way it was intended. I will always listen to them because of her and she was outstanding (again) in her performance. the bottom line… It’s a hard story and delivers a strong sense of the characters, the town and the driving forces and issues and Emmy leads the narrative. It does a hard transition to twelve years later and the twists and revelations had my head spinning at times. I did guess two of them but all that did was keep me glued to the story. This is classic Slaughter and she’s not only created a fascinating story but laid a heck of a foundation for the series. It is reminiscent of Grant County and that alone has me excited. Posted on Blue Mood Café

I cannot wait for the next one. This was fantastic

If you love small-town drama, dark secrets, and an author who pulls the rug out from under you just when you think you’ve figured it all out. This dark, suspenseful mystery is for you. Karin continues to exceed my expectations with her writing. Her storytelling is so captivating. Never once did I find myself thinking, “Okay… but why do I need to know this?” Every detail felt intentional and relevant. The storyline was emotional, shocking, and full of tension. She masterfully weaves the past and present together, giving real depth and emotional weight to the characters. The crime thriller elements, paired with the psychological breakdowns, were incredibly compelling and had me on edge the entire time. But what sets this book apart is how she balances that suspense with raw, emotional honesty. We see what the families are enduring, the cracks in each character’s facade, and the personal flaws that make them feel real. And at the heart of it all is Emmy..torn between her heart and her sense of duty. I want to thank Netgalley and Karin Slaughter for the eARC in exchange for my honest review. All opinions expressed in this review are my own.

A. new crime series from Karin Slaughter..umm yes please!, This book is fantastic. It took me almost a week to read but that is no slight in the book at all. It is one of those books, like all Karin Slaughter books, that needs to be savoured. Yes it is long but it is so worth it. Her books are always very detailed and a lot of character development and this one is no different. Bri g the first in a new series there is so much to learn about the people and the place. I already cannot wait to get back to North Falls in Georgia for more of the Clifton Family. A hard book to read at times due to the subject matter of missing teenagers and sex crimes., again, most of this authors books are. It is dark, it is intense and it is brutal. At the same time it is emotional and painful.i did shed a tear reading it. I love it when a book makes you feel all of the emotions. We aAre All Gulity Here is amazing and needs to be on every crime readers TBR. Just read it. A massive thanks to Harper Collins UK for my advanced copy of this book to read. Publishes on June 19th.

Author Karin Slaughter returns with a new crime thriller series set in a small town where everyone knows everyone, or do they? We Are All Guilty Here is a highly addictive, well-crafted suspense thriller that's impossible to put down, featuring flawed characters with a ton of baggage that bears a closer look. Slaughter draws readers in from page one and doesn't turn them loose until the final shocking revelation slaps them in the face. Take care of business and find some alone time before settling in with this masterpiece. We Are All Guilty Here explores the many layers of life in a typical small town in the south. On the surface, everyone's life is an open book. No secrets, right? Peel back a layer or two and you'll find almost everyone has nasty little secrets, something they'd do anything to keep hidden. These dark secrets begin unraveling after two teenagers disappear on the night of the town's annual Fourth of July celebration. Police Officer Emmy Clifton and her father Chief Gerald Clifton are on the scene working the case from the start, and they follow the evidence eventually putting the bad guy in prison despite Emmy's lingering doubts. Over a decade later, another girl disappears under similar circumstances. Emmy is now Chief of Police and faced with the possibility they may have put the wrong guy away. To uncover the truth, Emmy and Jude Archer, a retired FBI agent and psychologist, work together in a race against time. It's soon clear the small-town neighbors Emmy thought she knew are hiding secrets that could destroy them if revealed. How far would they go to keep them hidden? With a few skeletons rattling around in her own closet, Emmy is forced to face her own demons and the complexity of relationships within her own family when her personal and professional lives clash. Author Karin Slaughter slays it with this gripping, tension laden, tautly written thriller balancing smalltown dynamics with compelling, richly developed characterizations led by a flawed, yet likable protagonist burdened with guilt and regret. The dual timeline connects past crimes with the present setting a chilling tone of malice throughout. As the story unfolds, characters and readers are sent reeling with each shocking revelation until it becomes clear no one in North Falls is as blameless as they may seem . . . even Emmy. We Are All Guilty Here is an emotional, gripping thriller that highlights how the past can dictate the path of the future while throwing open all the doors in a tightly knit town. As always, Slaughter excels at turning small-town settings into vivid, living elements that shape the story and drive the pace. Guilt, secrets, and family dynamics all collide and explode across the pages of this suspense thriller. No one does it better than Karin Slaughter. I can’t wait for the second book in this series. Highly recommended for readers who love a challenging whodunit and fans of mysteries and psychological thrillers. Many thanks to William Morrow Publ. and Author Karin Slaughter for a complimentary arc of this title for review. Opinions expressed in this review are my own. US publication of this book is set for Aug. 12, 2025. This review first published in Mystery & Suspense Magazine and is now available on my blog Cross My Heart Reviews.

We are all reading here. 4.5 stars rounded up. The Queen of Crime is back! Karin Slaughter's books have been auto reads for me pretty much since her debut, and her latest book has all the hallmarks of a new great series. In "We Are All Guilty Here", the readers are introduced to North Falls, a seemingly sleepy Georgia town where everyone knows everyone - or at least thinks they do. That illusion shatters the night of the 4th of July fireworks, when two teenage girls disappear from the town festivities. Officer Emmy Clifton, already burdened by guilt for not being there for her best friend’s daughter earlier that day, throws herself into the investigation. But as she digs deeper, she realizes she never truly knew these girls - or her town. As a long-time reader and fan, I have come to expect complex, flawed but compelling characters, relentless tension, and Slaughter's signature willingness to peel back the darkness of everyday life from her books, and "We Are All Guilty Here" does not disappoint. If "Pretty Girls" was her most brutal and the Grant County and Will Trent series her most addictive, "We Are All Guilty Here" lands somewhere in between - slightly less graphic, but no less tense. The suspense comes from the claustrophobic small-town setting and the constant sense that danger is lurking just under the surface. As always, Slaughter manages to balance the relentless pacing with surprising character depth. Emmy, the daughter of the town sheriff, is messy yet determined, flawed but capable, and a fascinating new lead. The book's ending teases revelations about her personal life that could shape future books, though I personally hope the series will keep its primary focus on crime solving rather than the family drama in future installments of the series. Overall, this is a strong start to the North Falls series: gripping, atmospheric, and packed with the kind of breathless action that keeps you glued to the page. For fans of Slaughter’s backlist, it’s a fresh but familiar thrill ride - and proof that even after more than twenty years, she’s still at the top of her game.

Karin Slaughter’s latest novel takes place in the small town of North Falls in south-west Georgia. Emmy Clifton has lived in the town all her life and has so many relatives throughout the surrounding county it is named Clifton County. She works as deputy to her father Sheriff Gerald Clifton. During a Fourth of July parade in the local park, Emmy encounters Madison Dalrymple, the 15 year old daughter of her best friend Hannah. It seems as if Madison wishes to talk to Emmy, but Emmy is still reeling from an argument with her useless husband Jonah. A few hours later, both Madison and her best friend Cheyenne Baker are declared missing. Their bodies are later found in a pond belonging to Emmy’s aunt Millie. A local man, Adam Huntsinger, also known as The Perv, is found guilty of their murder and sent to the state prison. However, 12 years later, following a campaign by dentist’s son, Jack Whitlock, doubts are cast on the conviction and Huntsinger is released from prison. Soon after his release, another teenage girl, Paisley Walker goes missing. Then, out of the blue, an FBI profiler turns up who seems to know much more about the case, the town and the Cliftons than any usual outsider should know. Once again, Karin Slaughter has managed to deliver a complex but coherent story with surprises right until the end. Her usual themes of large dysfunctional families and women’s struggles to prove themselves in a misogynist culture and often finding their biggest enemies are women who have succumbed to a life of subservience.

Ms. Slaughter, what have you done to me?!?! 🤯 RTC!

You want dark? You want graphic? You want messy? You want twist after twist throughout the entire book? You want to have your heart ripped out? You want an unpredictable ending? Read this book. It’s exciting because it’s a brand-new series in a brand-new location from Slaughter. This was a fantastic read full of well-written complex characters with so many flaws and issues. It amazes me how well Slaughter can write a world with characters in it that make you feel something for them whether that’s sadness, frustration, anger, disgust, etc. These characters jump off the page. I also don’t understand how real these characters are to me. We hear about all the stuff they go through in real-life that this story really isn’t far from reality. Bravo to Karin Slaughter for writing a damn good book as her 25th novel, in her 25th year of writing 👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼 I had the pleasure of interviewing her this morning on IG Live. Give it a watch (it’s only 20 minutes) and learn about this book, the next one, her tv series, and more: https://www.instagram.com/reel/DNOEmc...

This was a perfect read for me, I loved everything about this first book of a new series. A solid murder-mystery that kept me guessing and captivated me with its interesting and engaging characters, yes please! No spoilers to ruin anything for other readers but be forewarned the story does touch on a lot of dark, potentially triggering topics. If you'd also enjoy a well-crafted whodunnit with a dual then and now storyline, then add this one to your TBR list. Cannot wait for book #2!

The story is aptly titled. Every major character has made mistakes in their lives that seriously affected others. A long crime investigation full of zingers especially at the end. A really good story, great characters, and a dysfunctional police family that has the capacity to learn and change. The audiobook reader is very good and the book flows well and easily keeps your attention even though it’s 17 hours long.

WOW! This is worth the wait! OMG! Karin really is something. I love it so much! This had me crying silent tears. This is the second book from Karin that made me curl up in bed and weep. Damn, there's just too much pain in this book. I felt like watching a full season of Criminal Minds or Law & Order because of the drama, the angst, the crime, the puzzle, the intense investigations, and the heartbreaking crimes. Karin is never afraid to write about complex topics like abuse, grooming, pedophilia, and sexual liberation. This book can be dark at times, but it depicts the reality of life. Emmy is a strong main character—mentored by her father and raised in a clan of strong-willed individuals. But when Jude came into the picture, oh my, she took my heart away. I hope she'll be back in book two. I love this book. I have high hopes for the series, and I can't wait for the next. Brilliant!

Karin Slaughter has once again delivered a gritty, gripping, and deeply unsettling thriller in We Were All Guilty Here. This first book in a new series is a masterclass in dark, character driven storytelling. Set in a small town simmering with grief and secrets, the novel follows Emmy Lou Clifton—a sharp, complex, and determined lead—through a harrowing journey of truth, trauma, and justice. Slaughter’s signature style is on full display: sharp prose, brutal honesty, and a slow burning plot that explodes with payoff after payoff. At the heart of the novel is the Clifton family, whose history is tangled with pain, betrayal, and a past that won’t stay buried. The way Slaughter unpacks grief, both individual and communal, is both gut wrenching and powerful. Family dynamics are explored with nuance and raw intensity, and the justice system plays a crucial role, with police procedural elements woven seamlessly into the story. Emmy Lou is a standout lead, she’s resilient, smart, and flawed in ways that make her feel real and compelling. This is not a book for the faint of heart, the author doesn’t shy away from violence or graphic detail, but it never feels gratuitous, but do keep in mind most of the violence is towards young teenage girls. Every disturbing moment serves a purpose. It’s emotionally intense, morally murky, and impossible to put down. If you’re a fan of dark thrillers that make you think and feel deeply, this is essential reading. As the first in a series, We Were All Guilty Here sets the stage for what promises to be another unforgettable ride, I’m already desperate for book two.

Stunning. So excited for this new series and can’t wait see where the fabulous writing takes us! Excellent twists. Didn’t figure out the ending. Loved Emmy and Jude. Family dynamics are written and woven so well. Enjoyed it so much I bought a hardcover copy as well!! Thanks to netgalley for my electronic advanced reader copy in exchange for my honest review!

4.5 stars. The best thriller I’ve read in a long time! Absolutely loved the characters. I really appreciated the good pacing, character development, and family drama mixed with the mystery/thriller. Emmy is a police officer in the small town of North Falls who investigates the violent death of two teenage girls. It is made more complicated by the fact that the mother of one of the girls used to be a close friend of Emmy and small-town culture. After a man is sent to prison for the crimes, the plot skips ahead over a decade and we meet Jude, an older FBI agent with strong familial ties. I loved Emmy, Jude, and the rest of the characters. I did find the description of the crimes a bit much and the high number of sexual predators in the community jarring. Other than that, a great book!

Thanks to William Morrow for the NetGalley review copy (pub date: August 12, 2025) Come for the murdery business you'd expect from Karin Slaughter, stay for the small town corruption and dysfunctional family drama! Bingeworthy, fast-paced, and brutal, We Are All Guilty Here is a fantastic start to what will hopefully be a long-running new series from one of my all-time faves.

One Billion Stars! “An oath could be broken, but a promise? A promise stood as long as you were still trying. A promise understood that sometimes your best wasn’t enough. A promise cried with you when all went to Damnation. A promise came to help when you could barely stand. Because a promise knew that sometimes, being there was all you could offer.” Absolutely speechless!! Tropes; -Found family -Heartbreaking arcs -Healing Journey -Action packed battles -Intriguing politics “Perhaps the question isn’t ‘What use is art?’ ” Wit mused. “Perhaps even that simple question misses the point. It’s like asking the use of having hands, or walking upright, or growing hair. Art is part of us, Kaladin. That’s the use; that’s the reason. It exists because on some fundamental level we need it. Art exists to be made.” Brandon you need to give us answers!! guys, when he said that he would conclude arc 1 with book 5 I thought he meant giving these characters a somewhat proper end with like at least answers but he left us on a cliffhanger and now I cant wait for 7 years for him to like publish the next book!!! like I dont even know if I would be alive Brandon!! 2030?? that's so far away like I was jumping up and down thinking that if I die after 2024 I would die at least knowing that I had read Kaladin's arc and his ending but that didn't happen so like Brandon if you're reading this just like give me special services and write me the books first and yes that would be so much better, I will not share it with anyone and die happily PLEASE BRANDON LIKE PLEASE I CANT- okay now that the embarrassing rant is over lets move on to the actual book- look did I get what I want? No. but I wasn't expecting for it to go my ways because let's face it Brandon does what he wants and it bloody worked!! I loved this book so much like you dont know how much I miss reading this book, being in this world, reading about these characters and I honestly can't give two fucks about why other people didn't enjoy it or why they were underwhelmed, what matters is I enjoyed it and that I felt like this was the perfect way to conclude arc 1 and it honestly has me excited with that same energy and that same buzz for the next book so I think that it was wise for Brandon to pull this move. I'm writing the review rn but the first para was written a month back and lol now that I have calmed down, I think I can wait because we are being fed everyyyy year!! like secret project 5 this year?? horneater novella next year?? new skyward spinoff?? Elantris sequels??? mistborn era 3?? like this midpoint was so high and I honestly loved it and I cant wait for the other books in this series because I know that I will love them as much as this! 2024 was not a good year for me. Life was weird and not how I wanted it to be. My anticipated books were flopping and everyday I would just wait for this book because I know this would be that one anticipated book that would not let me down, so I started a grand plan which was to reread every single Cosmere book and I am sooooo glad that I did because it made me appreciate everything about this universe I formed a deeper bod with the character and this finale' hit sooooo hard. I have heard people complain about Brandon's prose but I love it sooo much, the way he writes, the way he explains, the characters he creates are so hard not to love like my heart screams for this series like you see my reviews and how much I yap but they dont fully encapsulate what I feel because there's so much that im feeling when I visit this series and everything starts hitting me and it's just so beautiful. Every book in this universe has such memorable scenes, the just keep on playing in my head and just refusing to leave and uff it's breathtaking. Every stormlight book has like five parts and I was expecting the same here but I was so happy when I found out that it was divided in ten days and every day was going by so quick and the tension was increasing at the end of each chapter so like there was this feeling gnawing at me wanting for answers while also dreading the end, hoping that it would never come and honestly authors who write sequences that make me feel like this immediately go to my auto-buy shelves. My E-book had around 2000 pages and you should've seen the stupid smile on my face when I saw the page count because honestly I hate long books except for when its my favorite series. I feel like he started off this book so strong with how everyone was preparing for the duel and there was this theme that played into it where you know about something bad that's going to happen but the characters are unaware and you just want to scream so yeah that was there and then the days progressed and everyone was fully placed in their own stories and you would start feeling like its the end and ahh I knew my heart was about to break!! The emotional aspect that this book delivered hit so hard, like how does Brandon do it, it was so well done weaving with the world building, the lore and oh my god we got so many answers, we got to feel and experience so many things and this journey was so precious because there will never ever be a journey that will be like this like it's like one of those shows that you watch and love and think of shows similar to it but find none because I dont think even Brandon can top this series. I dont think Brandon needs an editor and I do think the world building in this series is more impressive than other high fantasy series, bite me bitches. "Honor is dead but I'll see what I can do" Moving on to the characters; Kaladin Stormblessed aka the love of my life and the bane of my existence. Did his story end with a love interest and happy life? No. Was me expecting that delusional? Absolutely one thousand percent yes. But honestly can my guy just get a break, pretty please Brandon :( I would love to see more of his new journey but when the scene that put him in this journey was happening I was yelling NO at the top of my lungs because I honestly dont know how everything would be like ugh I dont wanna spoil but if anyone has answers just please let me know but besides that whole fiasco lets talk about how much I loved this character in this book and how I would do anything for this character, This journey that Kaladin took was so important like I honestly wanted to see him fight and be in battles but I also liked the way he was trying to bring szeth to a better place and I really like that journey I feel like it was very much needed for him and the events that took place after them were soooo good. His journey was so unexpected tbh because during the beginning when Dalinar asked him to be their heir, I honestly the ending would go somewhere along the lines of that not him embracing that role, Im just happy that he's happy and ykw this book made me not hate the concept fo kal and syl that much and I think I can see it going somewhere in the future books but if there's anyway to avoid that I would gladly pray for that. Kaladin being annoyed at Nale was the highlight of this book and him giving death glares would never not be funny but honestly I need his level of patience because I would not have survived a trip with a person like Szaeth without throwing hands. His final meeting with bridge four and shallan and Adolin was so cute and istg if we don't get more moments like those I will riot Brandon. Im scared to see where his character is going to but I hope he finds peace and happiness but I am also quite excited t see where his journey will take us cuz Its gonna be so new and honestly I cant envision Kal in that role specifically being the leader, but lets see how brandon handles that. “Would that any of us," he said, "could protect ourselves from the costs of heroism. But, again, if there were no costs, no sacrifice, then would it be heroism at all?” Adolin Kholin, is the most precious man there is to ever exist like the character development that he went through was so immense and strong and so beautiful to read like actually go back and read book 1 and compare that version of Adolin to this Adolin, there was always this sense of righteousness and kindness that was explored more throughout each book and his honor which was just so strong. SO to read about him and his story!! it was amazing. Also, the things Adolin was willing to do for Azir, the way he was fighting and his monologue was pretty fun to read like I remember spamming Hoda vms of how much I love him and how much I dont want anything to happen to him and I can safely say that book 4 and 5 really solidified his place alongside Kaladin's as my favorite characters of all time because they are just so well written. The relationship strain that was felt between Adolin and Dalinar was actually needed and the way it was delivered was so good like I came to terms with Dalinar's actions and was making my way to try and forgive him but seeing Adolin's reaction to it and to see a hole in the image that his father maintains hit so hard and I actually was on Adolin's side and ufff it was so conflicting because at one side I wanted for them to talk things out and work out but the other wanted Adolin to hate his father for what he did. The conflict between them was such a well addition to this book. Adolin's need to prove himself in front of his father. Uff I love him so much you don't understand!!!! Also SPOILER There being no stormlight and Adolin loosing his leg?? HEAL MY MAN RTFN!! SPOILERS END The romance between Adolin and Shallan was added such a light and fun mix to this story and I loved the way it was unravelling and lmao not Brandon writing a fade to black scene (it was just passionspren rising) but it was sooooo good and I love how their relationship evolved and now that they're MARRIED I LOVEEEEEEEE THEM. I love how both of them get on Dalinar's nerves and I absolutely love them but I actually need to knowww if they'll meet again because when the book ended Adolin was at Azir and Shallan in the cognitive realm so please Brandon let them meet once again. DONT KEEP THEM APARTTTT. Also I love his relationship with the spren it was really good. You think that kid who starved didn’t want to eat? You think her parents didn’t want to escape the ravages of war badly enough? You think if they’d had more Passion, the cosmere would have saved them? How convenient to believe that people are poor because they didn’t care enough about being rich. That they just didn’t pray hard enough. So convenient to make suffering their own fault, rather than life being unfair and birth mattering more than aptitude. Or storming Passion.” Shallan Davar, since the start of this series. Shallan has been one of those character who has occasionally given me a very hard time but with each book I related to the character more and started understanding her and with this book Shallan grew into such a powerful character and the way she took control of her personalities and took action was really fun to read. Although I do feel like her story arc kind of took a backseat in this book but the parts of it that we got to read were soooo good and I honestly enjoyed. Her journey with Renarin and Rlain could have been expanded more but there were already so many things happening but it was definitely one that I wanted to see. Ba Ado Mishram is a character who I wanted to know more about and the event including her were so conflicting and I dont even know where to put her so her being in Shallan's arc made me enjoy it so much more, if it was ever to be adapted on the big screen I definitely Mishrams scenes would give me jumpscares because it was so creepy when described in the book. Also that one blessed appearance that we got to see, it was more like a cameo and I loved it so much. It has a link to it's own story so Im wondering if Shallan could possibly be have a small role in it. Unlikely but still possible but no expectation for that. “A virtue is something that is valuable even if it gives you nothing. A virtue persists without payment or compensation. Positive thinking is great. Vital. Useful. But it has to remain so even if it gets you nothing. Belief, truth, honor … if these exist only to get you something, you’ve missed the storming point.” Dalinar Kholin PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAINPAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN PAIN Besides the pain, his arc was the best one to read after Adolin for me. There was so much that unraveled here. Things about Honor and the stormfather also things about the heralds and everything related to it and it was so good to read to finally get answers that I was longing for and the way he made us experience rather than us just being fed the information we actually got to see what happened which included the conversations between honor and Odium which I wanted to experience and I am so glad that Brandon chose this way rather than just feeding us the information also the whole conversations with the heralds and the previous bondsmith was so well done. The whole past journey that Dalinar had was amazing. Navani Kholin Her arc was intertwined with Dalinar's so I honestly had the same reactions to her arc's. I do feel like RoW was her strongest appearance. The most useless award goes to that dumb bitch Cultivation thanks for nothing bitch. “Ideals are dead things,” Kaladin said, “unless they have people behind them. Laws exist not for themselves, but for those they serve.” Jasnah Kholin, Honestly she ate. I love Jasnah and her as queen is amazing and during the whole of RoW I was craving some Jasnah scenes and this one delivered on that so well. I liked how much her character has progressed as well, little as compared to the others but I always liked Jasnah as she was, so it should be no surprise that I liked her here as well but one moment that really made her stand out in this book was her conversation/ debate with Odium. It was so good and it was so well done, it was so tense and it had me at the edge of my seat definitely one of the stronger moments of the book! I loved it Wit, He always is there at the right moments and I need dragonsteel soooo bad. I would get so worried when Wit wouldn't know something and would be terrified lmao and him bringing weird objects and trying to find loopholes was amazing lol. Travangian, is such a cunning villain, like when you think that you have him figured out he pulls out a wtf card and slaps you across the face with it. I think that's the best way to describe him, he terrified me. “That should have made him an anxious, stewing pot of nerves. Instead he tipped his head back, sun warm on his skin, and acknowledged that while he didn’t feel great, someday he would feel great again. For today, that was enough.” Szeth, He was the main focus of the book I think because of the past chapter and idk I was expecting something more traumatic when I first read about him but lol it started with rocks but oof his story did get deep and I did love how his character got a lot of page time and developed and the end where he finally achieved what Kal wanted him to. The darkness that enveloped him was so immense and the way it took so long to get him out, the conversations him and Kal had felt so real to read and honestly it was amazing. bridge four without rock and Teft and kal the crew felt a little hollow but sazed's scenes with leyten had me screaminggg, the whole renouncing scene had my heart stopped and that leyten scenes almost tipped me over to tears and MOASH I HATE YOUUUUU “I’m a storyteller,” Wit said, with a flip of his fingers. “I have the right to redefine words.” “That’s stupid.” “That’s literature.” “It’s confusing.” “The more confusing, the better the literature.” “That might be the most pretentious thing I’ve ever heard.” “Aha!” Wit said, pointing. “Now you’re getting it.” Plot, There was so much going on in this book, so many different stories taking place and then finally interconnecting but every single one of those plot points were done so so so so good and I loved reading every single one of them because I feel like I developed such strong feelings for the characters that whatever was happening felt so interesting and so good but honestly tho the whole lore dropping made everything 10x better Action LOVEE those scene so much, they were so well described and the World building as usual was the star if this book because without it, it would feel incomplete, it felt like missing piece of puzzle that fit perfectly in and Sanderson never goes wrong with his world building. I was so in love with it. Overall, It was one of the best reads of the last year! Some additional quotes: “nothing is easier to sell someone than the story they want to hear.” . “The thing is, the deepest truths always sound a little trite. Because we all know them, and feel foolish being reminded.” . “And so, in the face of the most awful darkness he’d ever felt, Kaladin Stormblessed took a deep breath. Then stood up.” . “Welcome, Kaladin Stormblessed. Herald of Kings. Herald of the Wind. Herald of…” “Herald,” Kaladin said, “of Second Chances. . “If you assume I will crusade against religion or other Shards simply because they exist, then you make a mistake. The same mistake made by all who give petty, casual thought to my heresy. They assume I replace religious ideology with an ideology of their absence. That is not the case. I am against dogma of any variety. God, nationality, or philosophy—when you become a slave to it without capacity to change or reconsider, that is the problem.” . “I will not lie, and promise you that all future days will be warm. But Ishar, you will be warm again - and that is another thing entirely to promise.” ran out of space :( but yeah I absolutely love this book and would recommend for sure! ___ Ummm??? It's not finished 😭?? Bitch give me book 6-10 now I'm not waiting 7 years for that you can't leave me on a cliffhanger and expect me to wait 7 years because I SIMPLY WONT 🧍🏻 Brandon 👹 I. HATE. YOU ____ I cant believe it's in my hands 🥹 I hope this is everything I hoped for and ahh cant believe the last stormlight book until the next arc begins in 7 years 😭Kal, Adolin and Shallan here I come<3 -Buddy reading with Hoda.

RATING BREAKDOWN Characters: 4⭐️ Setting: 5⭐️ Plot: 4⭐️ Themes: 5⭐️ Emotional Impact: 5⭐️ Personal Enjoyment: 5⭐️ Total Rounded Average: 4.75⭐️ This long-awaited finale to the first arc of the Stormlight Archive stuck the landing. When I consider his story elements—characters, setting, plot—it's tough to criticize much. When we get into the writing style and structure, I think there were some pacing issues due to repetition. Overall, the thematic beats are so strong and the emotional impact is high. It's everything I've come to want from Sanderson, and I'm so satisfied with this installment. Specifically, no one does world-building like Sanderson. The scope is impressive. Roshar and the wider Cosmere are rich in believable detail. Particularly, Sanderson does the biome and cultures so well. I love that Roshar has its own weather, climates, vegetation, landscape, and wildlife and that each country has its own political system, fashion, food, religion, language, etc. This level of detail gives the characters more layers, allowing us to place them within the world and understand their nature/nurture makeup that much better. It's helpful because the other aspects of the character work aren't Sanderson's most sophisticated skill. He writes characters I am deeply invested in, because of what they've experienced on page. However, their inner thought lives are described in an obvious way sometimes, which feels unrealistically simple. Kalidan feeling hopeless, Shallan feeling guilty, or Navani feeling not good enough, are helpful descriptions, but ultimately I wish we saw more nuance and complication in their emotional lives. I tend to fill it in from my own empathy as I read through their experiences. The mental health focus in the series is done in a very obvious way as well, and while I deeply appreciate the representation, I don't always love how it's done. The plot arc of this series has been so unpredictable and Wind and Truth is no different. I couldn't tell where it was going, and I was so invested and stressed while reading. The stakes are so high. My love for the characters is so great. I desperately needed each character to have a satisfying conclusion. Sanderson never misses on plot payoff for me. Thematically, he delivers on character change and development, and he offers philosophical insight at the same time. This book focuses on truth, and the manipulation, corruption, and limitations of beliefs. It explores the fallibility of humans, and the dangers of truth without context, facts without experience, power without wisdom. There's so much baked in. I find myself weeping as I consider the real-world implications. Overall, this is a nearly perfect book. There is some filler, it is longer than necessary, and characters do repeat themselves on occasion. There are some emotional moments that lost some impact because the delivery felt forced which landed cheesy for me personally. BUT what Sanderson does well he does SO WELL that the imperfections seem insignificant by comparison. For those who read this far into the Stormlight Archive, you will not be disappointed.

This book is absolutely bonkers. It's actually insane how many things happen in it. I maintain it has the weakest beginning. I think Sanderson has gotten worse at overexplaining how people feel, and his humor in the beginning is cringier to me. Chapter 10 is abhorrent and should be purged with fire. I also think some character stuff from where we left people in RoW didn't make a lot of connective sense, and I just reread RoW and that felt jarring. But this is the longest Sanderson book and somehow, the best paced one. The ten day structure makes the momentum keep building and it's one of the best paced books I've ever read, even more so then Words of Radiance. It has the strong flashback sequences that build to an incredibly powerful current day storyline that is reminiscent of the best parts of Oathbringer. It has the emotional resonance of the RoW ending, but with nearly every character. The climax of this book is just like ten arcs being incredibly emotionally powerful. I think the endings for all major characters is brilliant, the state of Roshar is incredibly interesting and even a bunch of set up with supporting characters will lead to a bunch of great speculation for years. I think it does a great job of making every upcoming Cosmere book more interesting while also being less focused on Cosmere things than the last few Cosmere books. There's honestly too much; I feel like I already need a reread. There is also just a metric ton of cool moments. Not everything has to be deep or have further implications. Sometimes a fight scene can just be written so well you're gripped to the page and can't look away. And WaT has a ton of these. I am pretty sure this has supplanted Words of Radiance as my second favorite book of all time (Storm of Swords ain't ever movin, fam) and it is a monumental achievement. Review immediately upon finishing: It's very late (nay, early), and I just finished, so a better review will come later, hopefully. I usually let these things settle, and I may change my mind, but it is so rare that this feeling hits me immediately that I am relatively confident I am telling the truth. I think this book has supplanted Words of Radiance to be my second favorite book of all time. I can offer no higher praise.

What. A. Journey. This was an epic ending of an arc that I am so excited to see the consequences of in a decade. It’s hard to talk about this without spoiling previous books, but this was quite epic. The first few days were slow on the uptick for me, but wow this was such an incredible, emotional finale for the first arc of Stormlight. This was a slow one and I really feel like I made the right decision taking my sweet time with it. It’s dense, but it’s filled with incredibly epic fight scenes (easily the best I’ve read), emotional gut punches, philosophical debates, and comedic moments that really hit for me, especially with Kramer’s incredible voice for a certain inanimate object. I wasn’t a huge fan of the romance, but I also don’t read Sanderson because of his romance writing capabilities. The themes were impactful and the lore was incredible, and I cannot wait for arc 2. Adolin Kholin may forever be my favorite character, but Kaladin Stormblessed, who has slowly been rising the ranks these 5 books gave him a run for his money. After three months of chugging along with this audiobook, I already feel a bit of a void. As always, the power couple that is Kate Reading and Michael Kramer did an excellent job with this audiobook and have completely converted me to audiobooking all future Stormlight books.

I am on the Brandon Sanderson beta team and just finished book five of the Stormlight Archive, Wind and Truth. I literally don’t know what to say.

This book broke me. But then it filled the cracks with something stronger. This felt about as epic as the finale of The Wheel of Time, with a number of battles going on throughout and a plethora of viewpoint characters, which, despite that, were never hard to distinguish or keep track of. Most of the viewpoint characters are well-known, which helps, but Sanderson is so good at constructing narratives and leading you on the various characters‘ paths that you’re never lost. The novel’s structure also lends itself to frequent PoV alternations – we accompany some of these characters through 10 separate days: Kaladin, Szeth, Shallan, Adolin, Dalinar, Navani, Jasnah, Sigzil, Renarin, Venli and some more minor characters who don’t appear quite as often (Rlain, Lift, Lopen, Yanagawn, Nale, Wit, Mraize etc.) Daunting? Perhaps at first glance, but the reading experience is incredible because you get access to so many characters‘ thoughts – sometimes describing the same events through a different set of eyes. Two Interludes follow each of those days – very brief ones, only a few pages each time – one of which is always Odium. I was so thrilled to find out what happened to Zahel – and Lift‘s chicken. We also get to see some of our worldhoppers, whose names you will recognize if you know your cosmere. I enjoyed each Interlude immensely as they added even more variety and insight into other characters. In this book, the flashback chapters are from Szeth‘s PoV, showing us his upbringing and the events that led to him being made Truthless. And it was such an amazing experience; it could possibly become my favorite flashbacks after Kaladin. There was so much to empathize with, so much to learn, about Szeth, about his family, about Shinovar – each chapter felt like a gift. In the present day, Szeth and Kaladin are both sent on a mission to Shinovar, albeit different ones: Szeth has given himself the task to cleanse Shinovar, and Kaladin is supposed to help heal Szeth and Ishar, the mad Herald. Kaladin trying to be a “therapist,“ legitimately wanting to help Szeth despite the atrocities he‘s committed, were just so hopeful. Those chapters also had two of my favorite moments, one involving the Herald Nale, and the other showing a moment of complete happiness for Kaladin, which for its rarity and intensity brought tears to my eyes. I also appreciated the nod to LotR here, “at the end of all things.“ And if he’d ever known a perfect moment in his life—crystallized joy, like light made into something you could hold—this was it. Worries abandoned. No, worries battered away. Worries refused. In that—at the edge of the world and the advent of the end of all things—Kaladin Stormblessed allowed himself to be happy. For what felt like the first time since Tien’s death. There were countless other moments that made me tear up, which moved me deeply, which made my heart beat too fast, which brought me joy and pain. I cannot and should not address them all here, just know that you will feel everything reading this book. Accompany Shallan in her continued quest of self-discovery, Adolin on his path to become someone better than his father ever was, Dalinar in his struggles with his past and desperation to try to do the right thing, Kaladin in his search for his purpose in life when he is not in crisis mode, Szeth on his way to find himself. Find out who Renarin really is and who he is in love with, what a great leader Sigzil is becoming, what can bring Jasnah to her proverbial knees and what can make her question her long-held beliefs. Find out if Roshar can be saved and Odium defeated. Find out all of that and so much more. Just know that not all your questions will be answered, not all problems resolved – some significant loose ends will have to wait for the second arc. This book was food for my soul. It is all I ever hoped for and more. It’s magnificent and epic and just fantastic. It made me happy and miserable and excited in equal measure. I’m already looking forward to my first re-read and experiencing everything again. ___________ 2025: First re-read complete, this time via audiobook. What can I say, it's still amazing - Michael and Kate are doing another fantastic job of bringing the characters to life. ———————- On July 29, the first two chapters of SA5 will be released on Tor‘s website and each successive Monday there will be two more! Find the link here: https://reactormag.com/read-brandon-s... ———————— Update if you’re looking for more excerpts to tide you over till December, Brandon is reading from Shallan’s PoV here: https://www.youtube.com/live/com-hv7y... (around the 51 min mark) I forgot that there are also Kaladin sections which have been out since 2022, which you can read here: https://wob.coppermind.net/events/503... (Chapter 1) https://wob.coppermind.net/events/508... (Chapter 1 continued and Chapter 2) I also found this excellent list of “readings from upcoming stories” on the 17th Shard: https://wob.coppermind.net/help/readings ————————- So it’s only Wind and Truth now. So no more ketek, huh. Do we like the title? Anyway, I wish I could forward time to December 6, 2024! ————————— Another new excerpt is out! So if you're craving Stormlight, here is Brandon doing a reading of a non-spoilery but still amazing interlude (Dyel) during the Defiant release event (around the 1:04 mark): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8sqAT... —————————- Excerpt alert (Jasnah): https://wob.coppermind.net/events/517... —————————- April 17, 2023: We have a title! Knights of Wind and Truth. Anyone else think half of it sounds like a Sarah J. Maas book? (No complaint, just an observation.) —————————- More excerpts (Szeth flashbacks): https://wob.coppermind.net/events/504... https://wob.coppermind.net/events/508... —————————- March 30, 2022: WHOA!! The prologue is out and it blew my mind! 🤯 Listen to Sanderson reading it here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N7IAX... Or read it here: https://www.brandonsanderson.com/prol...

I….. I cannot currently form thoughts

First and foremost, I would like to thank Brandon Sanderson and the members of Team Dragonsteel for providing me with an advanced reading copy of the soon-to-be-released Wind and Truth. Now that I have finished reading this monster of a book, here are my SPOILER-FREE thoughts of the same: While it is difficult to outclass the sheer brilliance of Words of Radiance, Brandon Sanderson comes quite close to achieving this insurmountable feat with Wind and Truth. Although the book is over 1300 pages long, it never felt like a tedious read. It offered a gripping tale with an intriguing narrative that was quite often fast-paced and action-packed and was filled to the brim with brilliant character arcs, intense moments, shocking reveals, ingenious schemes, disheartening betrayals, and nostalgic callbacks to events from the earlier books. On one hand, Wind and Truth offers a perfect conclusion to the first arc of the Stormlight Archive, but on the other, it flawlessly sets things up for the next arc as well as for the larger Cosmere as a whole. Journey before destination, Radiant.

Wind and Truth is the fifth entry in the incredible The Stormlight Archive series. This novel is the midpoint of the saga and the conclusion of the first narrative arc. At this moment, the stakes could not be greater, tensions are sky-high, and the characters we have been following for around five thousand pages get to show what they are made of. In ten days, Dalinar Kholin will face Odium's champion. The fate of Roshar, the lives of the inhabitants, the lines on the maps, and the destinies of The Stormlight Archive's main characters will all be dramatically affected by the contest's outcome. The gods of the Cosmere watch on with trepidation. The three main characters in The Stormlight Archive are Kaladin, Shallan, and Dalinar. Here, Kaladin accompanies the former assassin Szeth. The latter wishes to complete his Skybreaker quest to cleanse his homeland. The voices in Szeth's head are becoming crippling and Kaladin's assistance, having in common Szeth's struggles with darkness and his coping mechanisms, could be a deciding factor in the mission's success. Lightweaver Shallan has unfinished business with Mraize and the Ghostbloods and much of her page-time throughout Wind and Truth is a complex game of cat and mouse. However, this description is wildly under-selling the importance, inventiveness, and intricacies of this plot. Dalinar, the Blackthorn, legendary warlord turned scholar seeks answers and an edge against the evil god Odium. To have any hope, he must traverse the Spiritual Relam, a place so unpredictable and damaging that even gods and immortals fear to tread there. The Cognitive Realm of The Stormlight Archive has always had a magical yet strange feel. I was engrossed with the scenes depicted there, in both previous volumes and in this novel too. With Wind and Truth, I was intrigued to see what the previously mentioned Spiritual Realm segments would offer. It is a unique plane of existence with differing rules and potential. I can report that the events portrayed there were exciting and rewarding to follow. Furthermore, the revelations regarding how this realm operates are captivating. The magic schemes and imaginative potential have remained a highlight throughout The Stormlight Archive. Moving on from players learning about their powers in earlier books (Words of Radiance and Oathbringer), now Radiants, Spren, Fused, Heralds, Regals, Worldhoppers and gods are all in the mix and they are formidable and often fascinating to follow. Sanderson offers a world where nothing stands still, and where practices and possibilities (magical, scientific, political) are always progressing and evolving. There are standout moments when a character advances, performing an astonishing and unforeseeable act. Credit to the author is deserved because these instances never seem disjointed or against the rules. The seeds for these revelations feel like they have been planted throughout the whole series. Upto and including Wind and Truth, it has remained a joy to see a main character flourishing, magically or mentally. Scenes such as these are beautifully composed and with the close affinity between character and reader, it is as if we share the sense of achievement. Similarly, when tragic developments happen, they hit hard too. Truthfully, some of my favourite fantasy characters live within these pages. I will not divulge too much about certain character arcs or standout segments. However, I will note the following: Adolin is amazing. Like Adolin's trial in Rhythm of War, what happens to him in Wind and Truth makes him a thrilling person to follow and I feel that every aspect of his story is perfect. Adolin fights on one of the battlefronts in Wind and Truth, as does another standout character, the Windrunner Sigzil. The humans and Odium's army are actively warring until the contest on the tenth day, and Sigzil's promotion to a point-of-view character, showcasing how he influences proceedings, is gripping. Unfortunately, not every storyline is a winner. One of the few surviving Parshendi, Venli's storyline is plodding and ambles along. Likewise, it was disappointing that not much page time was spent with the Fused Leshwi, especially after she became one of the standout new additions in Rhythm of War. Wind and Truth is as good an ending as I could have hoped for. There are heartwarming moments, dialogue exchanges that are both poignant and powerful, stunningly worked scenes of humour, and strong bonds and brotherhoods fully on show. While reading, each day I tried to finish one of the days in Wind and Truth. This was enjoyable and I found it upped the ante as my reading coincided with the countdown. This added to the intensifying of events, complications, and unpredictability of how it could all end. Nothing prepared me for the last day. I almost did not want to finish reading the novel's conclusions because I could not predict how it could end, and maybe I did not want it to. In a good way, I felt breathless and uneasy as the endings hit me on many emotional levels. In my reviews for each book in The Stormlight Archive series, I have been extremely positive about how important this series is to modern fantasy. After completing Wind and Truth, my opinions have not changed and I feel Sanderson has storming nailed this fifth book. The Stormlight Archive is one of my most re-read fantasy series as I revisit it with every new release. Come book six, I will do the same again because there is still so much left to happen in this corner of the Cosmere and beyond. The next book cannot come soon enough. If you are considering reading this series, this could be the best time to start. Thanks to Tor (US) for a review copy in exchange for an honest review.

Finished this book a few days ago but it put me in a comma so don't expect me to heal anytime soon. Waiting 6 years for the next one is just foul.

This is, to date, the longest book I’ve ever written. - Preface, Wind and Truth TL;DR: An absolute storming gorgeous read, a treat for the fandom, and a unique and radical take on the epic fantasy genre itself. A highly recommended series, if you can stomach books over a thousand pages, and a backlist of at least five other required reads to understand the ending. I recommend starting at Mistborn :D Sanderlanche (noun): A fast-paced finale sequence with rapidly changing POVs, oft found in all Sanderson books, that culminates the plot threads set up in the majority of the book. Wind and Truth, the final segment of the first half of an epic fantasy series, the Stormlight Archive, spanning decades of work is a sanderlanche for the whole series. While that makes it wonderful for the fandom, who have been waiting for this book for years, it also contains an arduously slow plot in the middle of the book, which could irk some readers (me). I am a victim of the reduced attention spans that plague my generation (I tend to read multiple books at a time, rapidly switching between them), but perhaps this book could have fixed me. I suppose it did, because I forced myself to slow down and savor it. Clearly, the intent of this series is volume. Big, meaty books (this one itself weighs over a kilo) with subplots, subtexts, wandering philosophical discussions, and warring action sequences, which reward the reader with significant reveals at the end. The number of characters seems to surge (hehe) in every subsequent book, and I fear I will need copious notes to read the next books in this series. As much detail as possible is meticulously stuffed into these pages, and I’m going to choose to be appreciative of an author who cares enough about the fantasy community to keep building a fantastic universe rather than even mentioning the word bloated. Damnation, the words escape me. In the true spirit of Sanderson, this review will probably ramble, have insightful quotes, and be humongous. Should a book review be proportionate to the length of the book? Probably. “Life breaks us,” Dalinar said. “Then we fill the cracks with something stronger.” The Cosmere of it all: The Way of Kings could have been read as an introduction to this (wonderful, beautiful) series with almost zero insight into what a Cosmere was a decade ago (I asked myself this so many times over the course of the year), but no more. The Cosmere, a fictional universe where the bulk of Sanderson’s fantasy novels are based, is the underlying character of this book. There are so many interconnected threads to the Cosmere (incredibly, upon reading this book I realized that they had been there since the beginning) that are quite explicitly included and explored in this one. It’s brilliant, but it would be a big impediment to folks who would pick this series up with no other information. Please be warned, there are reading orders to get to before this book and crossovers and easter eggs galore. Even the storming interludes need to be deciphered, and the epigraphs remain an elaborate jigsaw puzzle. The Conflict of it all: My biggest gripe with Rhythm of War (the penultimate book) was that the political and religious conflict in the world was almost forgotten to move the series forward. Granted, there was conflict in that one, but not enough. No more! Sanderson delivers on that front, and how. Mythology, history, war, and magic systems are easier to write than politics I feel, since it requires multiple moving pieces. Sanderson rounds everything out well here. No wonder the book is hefty. The Gender roles+Romance of it all: Sanderson is an ally?!? Love that. He also dials up the romance in this one and executes it very well. It’s like he saw all the online discourse about him being terrible at it and took it to heart. I mean, it isn’t romantasy, but it’s a notch above his usual deal. I’m incredibly happy that some of my favorite characters get some much-needed respite from the pain Sanderson rains down on them XD The Growth of it all: Sanderson’s debut novel, Elantris, was published in 2005, and kickstarted the Cosmere. Since then he’s published multiple books creating new fantasy worlds and advancing the Cosmere piece by piece. I’ve read most of them by now, and they range from mind-blowingly amazing to lackluster duds (I said what I said). What is important is the fact that every single gripe I’ve ever had with any of the books (some dated, vaguely sexist/racist undertones) disappears in this series. Why? As I understand from the subtext of this book (and the series as a whole), and his numerous interviews, Sanderson is a writer who has earnestly grown over the decades and intends to not only include diverse characters but also critically question the world rather than blindly accept beliefs. "Feeling real is enough. The things in our heads can be some of the most important things in our lives. Love is in our heads. Confidence. Integrity. All things we make up, but they’re still very important." The Epic Fantasy of it all: There are tropes in every genre, as there are in fantasy (and they get more dramatic as it gets more epic). Admittedly, I have not read a lot of the staples, but enough to understand why this book is so incredible at paying homage to the tropes (The Chosen One, Good vs Evil, Magic Powerups, Tests and Trials), and turning them on their heads. This makes the series incredibly satisfying. If you want likable main characters, cool scenes, a payoff after a long ordeal, conflicts and clashes, archetype and nuanced villains, archetype and nuanced heroes, multiple magic systems, and slowly unfolding backstories, best believe you’ll find it all in this book. It is definitively, incredibly epic, and in retrospect, it does make sense why it is so long. Sanderson has influenced this genre to a great extent already, and I’m sure this book will end up igniting a new wave of inspired takes. “We’re on a journey,” she said. “Between who we were, and who we want to be. Both of us.” I’ve gotten to this point of the review freely writing without mentioning my favorite characters. Maybe I shouldn’t be so hard on Sanderson for writing tomes. I think I won’t do so, to not include spoilers, but suffice it to say that list will likely have more than 20 names, which is why this book is so incredibly readable—you don’t want to leave the characters and this universe. Before I conclude, a minor mention of the bad: Firstly, the fact that there are more new spren in this one? I can’t understand if these are easter eggs or foreshadowing for something big in the future books. My money’s still on depressionspren appearing someday and becoming a major inconsistency. Secondly, open plot threads or ones brushed under the carpet—a lot of the reveals are given one paragraph of explanation, and trauma is dealt with over the course of *checks notes* ten days. But what’s the alternative? More chapters? Storms, am I advocating for this book to be longer?! Thirdly, there was some weirdly cringe prose in places, which didn’t match the tone of the book, kind of like weirdly timed MCU jokes, or a trite insight. Then again, The thing is, the deepest truths always sound a little trite. Because we all know them, and feel foolish being reminded. So I will always have a lovingly annoyed feeling towards this book series because there is so much cool stuff here but it takes so long to get to the storming point sometimes that that my eyes glaze over. Still, the worldbuilding is so unique and majestic, the characters are so interesting, fascinating, and endearing, and their trajectories are so unexpected, that I can’t not herald (hehe) this book series as one of the best fantasy series ever. Call me the Knight of Tears because that’s what this series does to me. Love the hype, will keep contributing to the hype, will need a TV adaptation of this series in my life pronto.

uhh I thought this was like the final book but it wasnt?? anyways this book slapped, punched and ate me up!! I dont think I have read anything like this and an end to any Arcs like this! Im so excited to read whats next, be it 5 years or 10 I just know Brandon will keep us fed ___ *deep breath* lets go.

All over this 'chat':: *Anticipationspren* *Impatientspren* *Angerspren* *Excitementspren*

I LIED I APPARENTLY WASNT READY TO BE HURT AGAIN. Expecting me to wait 7 years for the next book after this should be a war crime. I think I held my breath for the last 300 pages of this book. Im going to need at least a fortnight to recover 🥲 PRE READ: I’ve been mad all day about not being able to get Nexus tickets for the live release, but the second this drops I’m running to start it IM READY TO BE HURT AGAIN 🫡🫡🫡

4.75! “All those moments throughout the days, weeks, months that don't get marked on calendars with hand-drawn stars or little stickers. Those are the moments that make a life. Not grand gestures, but mundane details that, over time, accumulate until you have a home, instead of a house. The things that matter. The things I can't stop longing for.” Now I am not gonna lie but this was not Emily's best work and after a rant with Roxy I understand that there can be some things that could have been done to make the story better but that does not change the fact that I loved reading this book and did not want it to end because you just have to read Emily Henry's works to understand that! Good writing is such a plus for me because if the writing is engaging and has you fully immersed in the book you probably won't see the problems that it has, unless its pin pointed out and this was the case with this book because I was so in love with the writing and the characters and with everything that she set up that I did not even find anything bothering me. She writes such intricate characters who you can relate with so much and you actually do feel for them, overlapped with such realistic qualities and problems that makes you relate to them and that doesn't make you feel alone because you see how another character faces the same problems, deals with it the same way you do and there' just something so beautiful about it. Okay so it's basically about two two people Daphna and Miles both their Fiancées cheat on them which leads to Daphne getting kicked out of Peters house and has to stay with Miles and while they both are there, the get a wedding invitation from their exes which leads to Miles and Daphne falling into a fake relationship to make them jealous and honestly them being roommates as well was so hot. It was different from other fake dating tropes because of the way it was set but the way it unraveled could have been something more. There's this quote during this scene where Daphne tells Miles of what she did that I laughed at and smiled stupidly at: "Wait!' He braces his hands against the counter, face brightening. "So he called to try to make you feel so pathetic you wouldn't come ruin his special day and you told him we were dating?' 'Im sorry,' I say again. 'That fucking rules,' He says. 'How'd he take it?" Daphne and Miles were such good characters and I kind of think that there could have been more depth to them but I still enjoyed the way that they were written in like Daphne self doubting herself because of her father always left her after promising that he was there to stay and I loved how she got over it and finally confessed her feeling by giving an angry rant on his phone because he needed that and I also appreciated the bond that she had with her mother although I do think that we could have gotten more one on one scenes for them and as for Miles, I loved him so much and its with all Emily Henry's men, I see myself in them.. be it Gus, Wyn, Charlie, Alex or Miles theres always something within them that I find I can relate too and for here with Miles was how he texts, the way he overuses the word nice which bug Roxy off so much but for me the thing that I related to him the most was where He panicked and reacted anxiously and then realized what he had done a little too late I won't elaborate on that because that would be a spoiler but I did get him during that scene but besides that scene, Miles was such a cute and hot too?? loved him. There was one thing that I appreciated as well but thought more could have been done was Miles past with her mother and how it turned him into who he was, always overlooking peoples negative side, never lashing out and always being nice(?) Their banter that I loved: "True,' he says 'but I haven't had any luck yet tracking down the stretch of beach where thirtysomethings go to smoke weed' 'Oh, they're all just vaping from their beds while watching HGTV' 'Not us,' he says 'No, we're adventurous' I say" _ "I turn to look at him. 'Even when you try to be mean, you're nice,' His eyes seem to spark when he smiles. 'I'll try harder." _ "Do me a favor,' he says lightly, 'Unlock your door.' 'Why?' 'So I can push you out as I peel out of the parking lot,' he says, 'You would never,' I say 'I would never' he admits." _ “Drink. Dance. Have fun.” “In a room with our exes,” I point out. “Who think we’re dating.” Miles’s smile hitches up. “See?” he says. “Doesn’t that sound fun?” I absolutely loved the friendship that Ashleigh and Daphne had because it was so down to earth and real and raw that I just fell in love with it and I think it was because Emily focused on Ashleighs character as well and gave her a story which made us understand where she was coming from and what was happening and how that eventually led them to be friends and I also loved how she supported Daphne's decisions but wont lie to her as well and would subtly try to make her understand things, she was certainly better than whatever the fuck Sadie was. Another bond that I liked but thought some scenes could have been explored more was of Miles and his sister JUlie they were just so wholesome and cute and deserve the whole world. "You're worth it, Daphne," he says, hand soft on my jaw and eyes closed. 'Miles?' I whisper. 'I do, I do what all those parts of you' His eyes open, molten, warm, 'Good,' He says. 'They want you too.' Then he kisses me." The romance was honestly the horniest Emily has ever been it was not I would say insta-lust because there was development and it wasn't like ' oh one look and im hard' but it was that instead of the intense pining, proximity and slow burn, they just acted on what they felt. I am a sucker for slow burn and wanted more but I cant deny how much I enjoyed reading the scenes. Also, the way emily henry also writes poetic smut?? Like??? How can you do that woman. Despite it being her horniest, it was very well balanced. Now,The things that could have been better; (spoilers)(credits;roxy) 1, More drama as we were promised a wedding which could have increased the sexual tension, the fake dating part and the drama a lot. 2, Daphne going to her mom to rant like we saw Rory do with Lorelai in Gilmore Girls. 3, Male povs because having Miles's POV would have been so interesting since would've gotten his emotional scene with Julie and it wouldve been more showing and less telling. 4, More drama by Miles's mother meeting them and this book being at least 200 pages more Now the scenes that I loved 1, When Daphne gets dumped and throws almonds at Petra and Peter 2, Miles and Daphne hanging out across the town 3, The cherry hill scene with Ashleigh, Miles and Daphne 4, Daphne making it up to Ashleigh 5, Miles going to confront Daphne's dad 6, The cute tender moments between Miles and Daphne that will make you feel single. 7, the milkshake, fries and beach scene. Overall, a fantastic read that I will definitely read again and again despite some things that could have been added. Ratings for her other books: 1, Beach read: 5 2, Happy place: 5 3, Funny story: 4.75 4, People we meet on vacation: 4.5 5, Book lovers: 4.02 Special shoutout to Roxy for getting me to read all of Emily's books last year and hearing my rants about it. We need another EH buddy reading session. ___ EMILY HENRY I AM IN LIVE WITH YOU!! LETS GET MARRIED SO I CAN GET ALL THE STORIES YOU WRITE (RTC when I finish my rant with Roxy and gather my thoughts) ___ Its time 💫 • Buddy reading with the one and only Roxy (Emily Henry so far all my anticipated reads have not met my expectations I'm begging you pls don't disappoint.) ___ Yes, Emily henry is a drug and i am an addict. I am not even joking when i say this but this is the only ting that i am looking forward to this year. Emily Henry writes the best books, her writing style alone is so beautiful and bewitching and the feeling of loosing yourself to it is so immense and amazing that i just cant wait to feel that again!!

funny story? ha. ain’t nothing funny about the way my heart was tugged while reading this book. emily henry im under your bed cuz why’d you write a fmc that has the same thoughts and fears as me?!? 💀 opposites attract has never been written better than before this. Daphne and Miles were written for each other like a prophecy. this is one of emily’s most horniest books yet, and i was there for it all the way through. “his mouth is still cool from the lemonade, his breath tinged with hints of lavender, and his hand slides around to the small of my back, fisting into my shirt…” i love these descriptions. there was something very tender when he said “always so buttoned up” to Daphne, who’s a librarian, as he was ripping her clothes off. 🫶🏽 i just know if i had an attentive, calm, loving, cherishing, beautiful man like Miles in my life he’d be extremely manly to the point where i can turn off my brain, be a girly girl, and not have a worry in the world. his gentle love felt like a caress to my soul. the way he effortlessly took care of her, saw the signs, respected her space and mind. Miles…YOU GOT IT LIKE THAT?!? he makes me feel like im standing in sunlight☀️ lives were changed when Miles said, “ I know I’m not who you pictured yourself with, but I think I could be, eventually. If you’ll let me. So don’t go. Because I don’t want you to. Because you’re my best friend, and I’m in love with you.” brother my knees just hit the floor in the middle of walmart😭 Daphne such a well rounded character. her fears were so real and the way she overcame them was nothing if not humbling. emily writes her fmc so nuanced and layered and deep. i feel like she’s writing about me and im ok with that 😁 also if i ever catch Peter in public im throwing a brick at him emily henry books ranking: 1) beach read 2) funny story 3) book lovers 4) people we meet on vacation 5) happy place

make your love interest nick miller coded and i am SEATED also there’s no way that many people could comfortably live in that apartment at one time full blurb and review to be posted closer to publication thank you to edelweiss and the publisher for providing the arc!! Follow me on Instagram

Beach read & Happy Place have my heart but now so does this book I love Miles and Daphne sm

WHY DIDNT THEY MAKE THIS ONE THE MOVIE

5 stars, we saw this coming ⭐️ Officially my 2nd fav Emily Henry book ever just behind Book Lovers. I loved this!

“I don’t know how to talk along the surface of things, but I also don’t want to unearth the ugly stuff, over and over again, for people who are just passing through my life. It’s depleting. Like every time I dole out a kernel of my history to someone who’s not going to become a fixture in my life, a piece of me gets carried away, somewhere I can never get it back. You can’t untell someone your secrets. You can’t unsay those delicate truths once you learn you can’t trust the person you handed them to.” — Emily Henry is never beating the ✨ sorcery allegations ✨when she keeps writing my thoughts and experiences. This is The Tortured Poet's Department coded with elements of Midnights in the second half of the book. This book was everything I didn't know I needed and I'm going to need Emily to write more contemporary romance books immediately. — The romance is a heavier focus compared to some of her other work, however it still had Emily's character driven stories, witty humour and introspection. This will be very subjective depending on your own personal connection to these characters and stories but I felt so seen in this book. This was a personal experience for me as it always is with Emily's books and I found it emotional at times. ➳ Daphne is up there with one of the most relatable FMC's for me. She's cynical about love and has been neglected by most people in her life. The romance was a large factor, but Daphne's fear of abandonment, parental issues and cynical nature gave me the emotional depth I crave in Emily's books. Daphne's abandonment issues are incredibly realistic and I got teary towards the end seeing how this has shaped her life. The Prophecy from TTPD this is so Daphne coded as she doesn't feel like she belongs anywhere with family, friends or relationships. “You can’t force a person to show up, but you can learn a lesson when they don’t. Trust people’s actions, not their words. Don’t love anyone who isn’t ready to love you back. Let go of the people who don’t hold on to you. Don’t wait on anyone who’s in no rush to get to you.” ➳ Miles is portrayed as the well-liked and free-spirited personality, however, he has a depth to him once he opens up. He's very patient and in tune with the emotions of people around him. He's an optimist and I loved how he turned Daphne's pessimistic statement's into something positive. I love his personality and banter so I will forgive him for wearing crocs all the time 🫣 “It’s easy to be around people who don’t know you. But as soon as someone starts to figure you out—as soon as you can’t be perfect—it’s easier to move on. Find someone new to be the cool, fun, laid-back one with.” ➳ Peter and Petra are terrible people. I found Peter especially triggering. He's the guy that always wants what he doesn't have and can't let others be happy without him. Petra got off too easy for her behaviour. ➳ Ashleigh is a side character but she offered a lot to this story. I loved the found family aspect she brought but also her own experiences also added depth to the story. I loved her moment with Daphne towards the end of the book which offered constructive feedback to Daphne's response to conflict. ➳ The romance had me kicking my feet like a love-struck teenager. They were so adorable and the chemistry and tension was palpable. The angst was on nearly every page and while the sexual tension was amazing, it wasn't instant love and their relationship offered so much more than sexual chemistry. They did trauma bond to an extent at the start but it's very clear that their chemistry was not a consequence of the hand they were dealt. This is very loosely fake dating — It could had fallen into so many other tropes but I loved the direction Emily took and she really let the characters stand on their own. “I want to kiss you, every time you take a sip of something and make that sound. I want to kiss you every time I walk past your bedroom and hear your laugh through the door. I want to kiss you every time I hear the shower turn on and know that you’re in there. I want to kiss you all the time, Daphne. Sometimes it’s just easier to find an excuse.” — There's a conflict towards the end and people might have some mixed feelings about it. I personally thought it was realistic because I related to the characters I would have felt the same. I don't pick Emily's books up with the expectation of it being a fluffy. I crave the introspection so I was not disappointed. It goes without saying that her writing is beautiful and witty — she had me laughing, blushing and crying. This delivered everything I look for! ⋆˙⟡♡⟡⋆˙ Quotes ⋆˙⟡♡⟡⋆˙ ➷ I’ve always cleaved to the people I love, tried to orient my orbit around them. Maybe, I realize, I’ve been trying to make myself un-leave-able. But it hasn’t worked. “I don’t want to just be a part of we, I want to be an I.” ➷ “I love this dress,” she says. “It’s so different! Your usual style is so … buttoned up.” Ouch. Miles touches my back, his hand skimming over to my far hip, pulling me into his side. “Like a secret,” he says. ➷ “Can I do anything?” I ask. Now his smile softens. He touches my chin again. “Nah,” he says. “This is enough.” “I’m not doing anything,” I point out. The corner of his mouth twitches. “Then why do I feel better?” ➷ “How could I miss someone who didn’t exist?” ➷ “A part of me is just waiting, for the moment when you see whatever it is that drives people away. And I don’t want that. I don’t want you to stop wanting me around. I think it might break my heart to be someone you don’t like.” ➷ “You’re wonderful. You’re the reason for the word wonderful. It really shouldn’t be used for anything else. You make me want to see the best in everyone. You’re the person I want to be with when everything’s going wrong, instead of just wanting to skip over those times entirely.”

4.5* enjoyed this a lot 🥹

I was not an Emily Henry fan before this but now I can’t help but be excited for her next book. This was hilarious, heartwarming and raw. It was real and so beautifully imperfect I found myself itching to pick up where I left off every time I put the book down. It has immediately become one of my favorite romances I’ve read so far. I recommend this to anyone without hesitation

nick miller- i mean miles nowak the man that you are! absolutely love emily henry’s dedication to making her love interest more and more like nick miller the more she writes. i loved daphne as a character and i really feel like i relate to her a bit. i love that emily henry focuses on romances that of characters that are 30 since most romances the characters will be early or mid 20s. emily henry never fails to write a good and engaging romance, can’t wait to see her next one.

this amount of tears does not accompany anything below a 5 star read

At this point, I’m a full time Emily Henry enthusiast. It’s giving 9 to 5, with health care and benefits. BUT I’M SHAMELESS. I absolutely loved this book (what’s new?). Daphne and Miles had such good chemistry, the pacing kept me enthralled the entire time, and the plot line was MESSSYYYYYY. I love the character arc that Daphne had. You can always count on Emily to give you some childhood trauma that explains exactly why the character is the way they are. Miles is in the running for best man written by Emily Henry, but I genuinely will keep my mouth shut because I haven’t decided yet!! This book got me out of a FAT SLUMP. I cried minimally! AMEN

4.5 - 4.75 Stars I just love Emily Henry. At this point, are a lot of her books, characters, and character banter very similar? Yes. But I don't care, because I am 100% the target audience and I am here for it. All day. Every day. "Trust people's actions, not their words. Don't love anyone who isn't ready to love you back. Let go of the people who don't hold on to you. Don't wait on people who don't hurry for you" I just love Henry's writing and the way she unpacks elements of the human condition to which I so relate. And did I mention the banter? I loved Daphne and Miles and I thought they had great chemistry. Some of Henry's past "friends to lovers" scenarios lacked that spark in my opinion...they just never felt like more than friends to me...but these two were adorable while also not feeling like brother and sister. So yay. I also really loved the side characters. I want an Ashleigh. As always, I cannot wait for the next Henry book.

Funny story? Yeah, no. There’s nothing funny about how this book ripped my heart out. Emily Henry, why did you create a main character who perfectly mirrors my thoughts and fears?! I felt so seen i was terrified. Opposites attract has never been done better than with Daphne and Miles. These two were made for each other. Honestly, this might be one of Emily’s most horniest books yet. Daphne literally moans every time she eats. Daphne was such a well-rounded character. Her fears felt so raw, and the way she overcame them was incredibly humbling. Emily writes female characters with such nuance and depth that it’s like she’s pulling them straight out of real life. I saw myself in Daphne (excluding the orgasm because of food), and I was completely okay with that. Oh, and Peter? If I ever see that man in public, let’s just say he better run and better have a good life insurance policy🥊🥊👊👊

4.5 ⭐ "But you... you make love so simple, Daphne" Oh wow... This has been my first Emily Henry book and omg I loved it 🥹 Chapter 27 had me with that feeling of, you know, your heart going a mile a minute and a smile of joy on your face, and that's when I know I really liked a book I loved Miles so much, god, what a man... And with Daphne I felt quite identified in many things about her. I didn't give it a perfect 5 (even though here on Goodreads I decided to round it up) basically because I felt that the first spicy scene came out of nowhere and, perhaps I would have enjoyed the romance being a little slower. I can't wait to read more Emily Henry books throughout 2025, I feel like she's going to become one of my favorite writers 🥹💙

5 stars 🍷 🫂 🐶 🍒 🪻 🚣‍♀️ 🏝️ 📚 📆 ❝ I know I’m not who you pictured yourself with, but I think I could be, eventually. If you’ll let me. So don’t go. Because I don’t want you to. Because you’re my best friend, and I’m in love with you. ❞ 𓂃˖˳·˖ ִֶָ ⋆🌷͙⋆ ִֶָ˖·˳˖𓂃 ִֶָ 𓂃˖˳·˖ ִֶָ ⋆🦋⋆ ִֶָ˖·˳˖𓂃 ִֶָ 𓂃˖˳·˖ ִֶָ ⋆🌷͙⋆ ִֶָ˖·˳˖𓂃 ִֶָ Miles is ☀️ sunshine incarnate ☀️ I genuinely think he might be one of the cutest book boyfriends out there. Although this book revolves around “fake-dating,” I’d actually say it’s one of my favorite friends-to-lovers book, because it shows how loving is so easy when it’s your own best friend. ⤷ ゛Miles (๑ᵔ⤙ᵔ๑) ˎˊ˗ ❝ Every time I scan the crowd, Miles’s smile is a little bigger, goofier. ❞ ❝ I picture a chocolate Labrador riding in a car, its mouth open and eyes squinting into the wind. ❞ ❝ Every time he looks over, it’s like the sun peeking out from behind a cloud. ❞ Miles’ love language is 100% acts of service౨🦋ৎ ˚⟡˖ ࣪ He asks her “you okay?” approximately 99x in this book. He’s always checking in, always making sure she’s comfortable. He saw her coffee plastic bag ONCE and went to get it for her the next morning (even with the long queue), and almost every day since then. ❝ Miles drops off chai for me at the library on his way into work. ❞ 🌷✧˚.🎀⋆ ˚˖𓍢🌷✧˚.🎀⋆ ˚˖𓍢🌷✧˚.🎀⋆ ˚˖𓍢🌷✧˚.🎀⋆ ˚˖𓍢🌷✧ I really, really recommend this book to everyone. It’s full of so many heartfelt moments and honestly so relatable. The story is warm in a way that hits you so bad, and I loved every second I spent reading it. I have NO idea why I put it off for so long. The last Emily Henry book I read was GBBL, and I didn’t enjoy it much, so I totally underestimated this one. But this is probably Emily Henry’s best book, and honestly one of the best romance books I’ve ever read. I’m so incredibly happy I picked it up, and I cannot believe there are people out there who are STILL missing out on this story. This book will forever have a special place in my heart. 🌷✧˚.🎀⋆ ˚˖𓍢🌷✧˚.🎀⋆ ˚˖𓍢🌷✧˚.🎀⋆ ˚˖𓍢🌷✧˚.🎀⋆ ˚˖𓍢🌷 ❝ Just stay. I love you. I want you. Stay. Come home. Please. ❞

5 stars Emily Henry books give me so much comfort. She’s an author I love reading and Funny Story is up there with ‘Beach Read’ and ‘PWMOV’ as one of my top favorites of hers. This story starts out a bit messy as Daphne’s wedding has been called off last minute after her ex decides he’s in love with his female best friend. She moved to a new state for him and ends up moving in with that female best friend’s ex boyfriend when he offers her his spare room. His name is Miles. Has Emily Henry created a better character than Miles Nowak? I think not. Funny Story was a book I savored. I read it slowly because I didn’t want it to end. I found Miles and Daphne so endearing. I loved watching their friendship grow into more and their banter was top tier. Did I mention again how much I completely adored Miles? He was the absolute best. “You make the people you care about feel like…” He pauses. “Like you want all of them. Not just the good parts. And that’s terrifying to someone who’s spent a lifetime avoiding those other pieces of themselves.” I adored the romance in this book, but I also loved the setting. The way Miles showed her around his town and made her fall in love with it made me fall in love with it, too. The other cast of characters and friendships were great as well. This is a must read romance and I hope everyone else loves it as much as I did!

Me: hating detesting abhorring despising loathing disliking being repelled by and feeling revolted towards fake dating books. This book: did I finish it or did it finish me? 😭

wtf was I smoking when I originally rated this 4.5?? 4.5⭐️ If your love language is acts of service, Miles is your guy!! It’s one of mine, so this book really worked for me! Honestly, this book was cathartic for me. I saw myself in Daphne so many times throughout this book. I actually called my mom while reading this and cried to thank her for being my dad/mom lol. The way Daphne spoke on wanting to be loved and made a priority made me feel SEEN. Everything written about her dad and how it affected her relationships felt like it was written for me. The way the ending was a call back to the beginning? Chefs kiss! The only reason I’m not giving this 5 stars is because I wanted more to the ending… it felt a little rushed to me!

Idk how I’m expected to pick a favorite EH at this point

₊˚ʚ 💙 ₊˚✧ﾟBut I'm working on being excited instead of nervous about the unknown. So many of the most beautiful things in life are unexpected. Emily Henry never disappoints. Reading her books makes me feel so seen and understood, I get the feeling she's telling me "life sucks, but you'll be fine because there's always something good to look forward to" 🥺 Her writing is emotional and thought provoking, and even if what the characters are going through is something I've never had to deal with, it's so easy to apply those life lessons to my own life and find a way to relate to their thoughts and feelings. ₊˚ʚ 💙 ₊˚✧ﾟ I'd tempered my expectations, packed them tight into bricks, built a fortress to protect me. But keeping every glimmer of hope out has isolated me too, and I want to be seen. I want to be loved. I want to live with the hope that things can get better, even if, in the end, they don’t. Funny Story is definitely Emily's funniest and horniest book to date, but it still has the depth and emotional turmoil that can be found in all of her stories. This book leans more towards romance than her previous books and I really enjoyed that. At first it gave me major rom-com vibes, but of course, in true Emily Henry fashion, I was a sobbing mess by the end. Daphne and Miles are wonderful characters, I adore them and relate to them both. They are the definition of "who could ever leave me, darling, but who could stay?" 😭 ₊˚ʚ 💙 ₊˚✧ﾟ I've always cleaved to the people I love, tried to orient my orbit around them. Maybe, I realize, I've been trying to make myself un-leave-able. But it hasn't worked. ⪼Daphne is socially awkward, struggles to open up to people and does not trust anyone to stay in her life. She's always been the kind of person who follows in the footsteps of others, too scared to be her own person, and it was so beautiful to see her grow and become more independent. ₊˚ʚ 💙 ₊˚✧ﾟI didn't learn what love was supposed to feel like. It doesn't feel natural, or come easily to me, to let anyone close. But you—you make love so easy, Daphne. You make me think I already deserve it, exactly how I am. ⪼Miles is one of my favourite Emily Henry MMC's, he's funny and there seems to be a light around him that draws everyone into his orbit. He's adored by everyone he meets, but he feels like he's not good enough for anyone. All he wants is to be seen and appreciated for who he is, for someone to see the ugly parts and not run away. Miles, I see you and I love you! Both Miles and Daphne have so much depth and growth. Emily has a gift for writing the most realistic characters, they really feel like real people with real lives, existing in a parallel universe to ours 🥹 ₊˚ʚ 💙 ₊˚✧ﾟ"And I feel lucky every time you look at me. Not because I think I've managed to earn you, but because it feels like you don't need me to. Like you just ... like me." He shakes his head, voice fraying as he corrects himself: "Like you love me. That's how I feel with you." The chemistry between Miles and Daphne was wild, the banter was wonderful, and the vulnerability and intimacy between them was so beautiful. Their relationship flowed so naturally. ₊˚ʚ 💙 ₊˚✧ﾟI love you in a way that feels brand-new. You make every single thing that went wrong feel like it was just a step in the right direction, and it—it makes me excited. For life to keep surprising me. I must also say that I adored Ashleigh and the bond she and Daphne had brought tears to my eyes. Friendships are so important and they really do make life easier. Funny Story is light-hearted and emotional. It's Emily's most romantic book, but it still has the elements that are characteristic of her other books, especially the themes of embracing change, dealing with insecurities, finding yourself and navigating adulthood. This is what makes her books so special and relatable. ₊˚ʚ 💙 ₊˚✧ﾟHe loves me. Present tense. And I love him. He knows me, and I see him. EH will always be a comfort author for me and I sincerely hope she never stops writing, I’ll gladly read her books for the rest of my life. ₊˚ʚ 💙 ₊˚✧ﾟ"Funny story…" he says, but he doesn't go on, just watches me and waits. He knows how much I love to tell it.

➳ i won ☆ funny story at its core is a romance about two people who got left, abandoned, and ultimately find themselves in each other. daphne & miles are by far her most romantic couple, her most disparate couple out of all her books. there is a common theme in her books where the main characters have mommy and daddy issues, and are typically viewed as unlikable; however, i did not feel that way with this book. unlike all of her other books, funny story does not share an overarching genre, or theme. this is a romance novel through and through. this one really stands out because we get so much time with the characters and get to see them grow and develop. i think this might be my favorite one from her. ★ ── daphne & miles when i first read this book last year, their meet cute took me out. i absolutely hated their partners and was wondering if i was reading an emhen book. however, i actually really liked the roommate plot and how everything unfolded slowly between them. at first, it felt like both daphne & miles were trying to get revenge on their ex's by pretending to be in love and fucking around, but i actually like how they were there for each other and how their relationship progressed. everything between them felt natural and soul deep. i am so glad this stayed a 5 star for me.

Thank you Frieda and Poisoned Pen Press for gifting me an ARC of The Tenant. Ms. McFadden!! You have done it again. This story had me hooked from the beginning. I liked that the POV was a bit different from her other books. I was hooked the entire story and finished reading within 1 day. @poisonedpenpress

There’s No Place like Home Holy Guacamole what a ripper of a listen by Freida McFadden narration by Will Damron & Christine Larkin I hadn’t thought much when I went into this book but it got good reviews & my success with this author had not been great, but WOWZA this was amazing loved every minute the characters were exceptional in the characterisation they played two were evil to the core. Blake Porter is flying high or so he seems to think he is a vice president of a marketing company but had lost his job, he comes home to his fiancé Christa telling her what had happened he is struggling to keep his mortgage repayments Christa suggests taking in a tenant which Blake was against doing but it’s the tenant from hell. This was an awesome read there are twists & turns everywhere you look with this one so buckle up & enjoy the ride 5 stars 🌟 ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️for this one.

If I had to recommend just one Freida McFadden book to you, it would be THIS. Twist after twist after twist and I loved it. I read 17 books of her and I think this might be my favourite. Strongly recommended!!!

I really enjoyed this one! He loses his job so his fiancé and him have to get a tenant to help them pay the bills. Outrageous stuff starts happening from there including some murders. Without giving it away, I was a little suspicious of a certain person who did end up being horrible, but I kept going back and forth about it, so this book definitely kept up the suspense. This one was great in my opinion! Very fast paced and wild stuff kept happening. The ending almost seemed like there could even be a sequel where we see some of these characters again.

This was a SUPER fun read omg! I really feel her books are either extremely boring or they have you hooked every second. I’m very pleased this was another magnificent read! Part one had me extremely frustrated, and Part two made it all make sense! I thought the plot twist was really good. The events themselves seemed a tad bit unrealistic, but I do feel that is the Freida way with the over the top scenes. Also, the Ohio shoutout made my heart happy. With all of that being said I will say I feel the plot, the twist, and even some of the events themselves were VERY similar to another one of her other works. Like, it’s almost kind of crazy how similar it was. However, I absolutely loved the other book, so maybe that’s why I enjoyed this one so much! My final note: installing home cameras would’ve probably ended the book in the first 10 chapters LOL. Fantastic read! Loved it

Twisty. Fast. Addicting.📖💥 Freida McFadden never fails to hook me; some of her books hit harder than others, but The Tenant was a wild ride I couldn’t put down. 🔥 This one earns a solid 4.5 stars from me! ✔️ Super fast-paced ✔️ Punchy writing with short chapters ✔️ Several jaw-dropping twists 😱 ✔️ And that signature Frida Flair ending, bizarre, bold, and enjoyable 🎭 What made this book stand out? The male POV. 🙋‍♂️ It felt fresh and gave the story a different energy. Watching his character slowly unravel was unsettling in the best way. I also appreciated the deeper message: how even polished, put-together people can influence our choices in ways we don’t always see. 🤯 While it’s not my #1 favorite McFadden novel, it was super entertaining, darkly clever, and thoroughly binge-worthy. 🖤📚

Start popping that popcorn! Absolutely, positively loved this twisty and compelling domestic suspense popcorn thriller. 👏👏👏❤️❤️❤️ Perhaps my expectations for this release were low: IMHO, in previous years, prolific author Freida McFadden had been focusing on quantity instead of quality. No quality issues with "The Tenant". When an engaged couple rents a room in their brownstone to the "perfect tenant," their lives suddenly spiral. Moving at breakneck speed, the book's unreliable narrators are unpredictable, and the atmospheric tension is high. I listened to the audiobook narrated by two of my favorite narrators: Will Damron and Christine Lakin. Both narrators did a superb job with the narration. One of my Freida besties! All the stars! ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

I DEVOURED this book. This is definitely my favorite Freida book yet, and she had me guessing every single turn. The thing I love about Freida’s mysteries is that there’s very little unnecessary info-her books are super easy to binge because they’re written so efficiently so the mystery is always fresh and entertaining. This book will STRESS YOU OUT. And you’ll thank her for it. I was able to read this book early as part of my indie bookstore ambassador program and I am now going to be sweating until May waiting to talk about it.

5 Stars for Dirty Thirty: Stephanie Plum, Book 30 (audiobook) by Janet Evanovich read by Lorelei King. Stephanie is on a freelance job trying to track down a jewelry thief and Morelli is out of town. She’s watching his dog and still trying to bring in fugitives with Lula’s help. She ends up staying at Rangers place and ultimately things turn more serious between them. And then Morelli comes home with similar feelings.

An Open Letter to Janet Evanovich, Author of the Stephanie Plum Series Dear Ms. Evanovich, I admit it. I started this journey for the most pathetic of reasons. But given your seeming affinity for the common woman/man, I think you’ll understand. I got it for free. Yes, I needed something to read, and I was on a budget. I went to the library and got the ebook. (Does it help that I’m saving for my daughter’s college tuition?) Of course, I’d heard about a young Trenton woman who bumbled her way into a job as a bounty hunter. I was on the hunt for a new series of books, having completed and loved the D’Artagnan Romances (Alexandre Dumas) some time before. Stephanie Plum won me over from the very first page. I’d been there: broke (or close to it), scared, at wit’s end. I’d started a career that was way over my head. That’s what drew me in. Steph was me. Or, she was who I wanted to be. I wanted the danger, the risk, the romance. I made things happen with mostly luck and my friends’ help, and a small spot of bravado. Her stories were what I aspire to write: accessible, down-to-earth, fun. I kept coming back, whenever the books came off the library queue. The characters became like family. Their quirks and habits became familiar. I could name them and say what they might do. They felt like friends: Lula, Connie, Vinnie, Mooner, Klaughn, Grandma Mazur, Diggery. And Trenton became like home. The bonds office, the funeral home, the bakery, Stark Street. The Burg. I felt like I could wander into the Plum house and get a plate of roast chicken and a slice of pineapple upside down cake. And the Ranger/Morelli debate. Stephanie loves them both, and with good reason. They’ve helped her, they’ve teased her, they’ve…provided the spice. What do I think? Who should she choose? I say: Keep her choosing. Because if she can’t choose, the story keeps going. Looks like I’ve reached the end (sort of) but thank goodness there’s more to come. Now or Never: Thirty-One on the Run comes out in November, and I’ve already ordered my copy. And I’m DYING to know what the outcome of the best cliffhanger in the series (from Dirty Thirty) will be. All of this is the mark of a great writer: she tells a great story, she creates lovable characters, she writes it on my level, she keeps me wanting more. Please keep bringing Stephanie back, year after year, as long as you can. Also, please keep bringing back Stephanie’s voice, Lorelei King. She’s like an old friend by now. She’s enhanced dozens of long runs and so many otherwise dreary commutes. No one does it better. Thank you, Lorelei. You’ve forced me to forsake my cheapskate ways and actually buy the books. I have about five left to complete the collection. That’s how much it means to me. I hope one day you’ll sign one or two. Thank you so much for thirty years of joy. I hope to enjoy thirty more. Sincerely, Chris @chrisdropsthebooks

So much fun! Stephanie and her cast of characters are at it again. Steph is hired to find a missing security guard that has stolen a lot of jewels, allegedly. As she puts all the clues together, her gang takes care of the high jinks. I especially loved the car chase with Steph's mom and grandma. Excellent book!

This was wonderful as usual but we are still left with the question who is Stephanie going to marry? I sure thought it was going to be Ranger.

What an entertaining, hilarious and awesome story. It may be book number 30 but I hope there’ll be 30 more! At the end there are memorable quotes from all the Stephanie books. Stephanie babysits Morelli’s dog Bob. He adds hilarity and protection for the girls as they apprehend the bad guys. Wait until you read what Bob does to the priest at the wedding rehearsal!

** spoiler alert ** Interesting turn of events in the will they, wont they love triangle…. Nervous for the next release because Im Team Ranger all the way!

This book was great! I loved all of the action, but (I can’t believe I am saying this) I’m ready for Stephanie to choose between Ranger or Joe. I was set on Ranger for a while, but now I don’t know!

Dirty thirty is a hilarious return to form for this series. Stephanie Plum and her adventures gave me lots of laughs. And oh my Ranger *que the girly squeels*. I can not get enough of that man. Did Morelly honestly need to go and ruin the thing? Honestly? I was positively giddy until that last page. I need a drink after this I'm so stressed. Over and out

I will always give these books five stars! Are they absolutely ridiculous and completely unhinged? Yes. Do I love them? Also yes! I’ve seen so many people say they hope Janet Evanovich ends this series, but I really hope she doesn’t. They’re just fun reads that always make me laugh.

Rich, gritty, and menacing! Dream Town is a mysterious, gripping tale that takes us back into the life of Aloysius Archer as he decides to head down to the City of Angeles, where his friend Liberty is just starting to make her mark on Hollywood and where his PI skills will once again come in handy when a writer who is afraid for her life suddenly goes missing and the trail to find her is littered with dead bodies, corruption, smuggling, drugs, blackmail and gangsters. The prose is vivid and smooth. The characters are loyal, determined, and brave. And the plot is a well-paced, twisty whodunit full of red herrings, sleuthing, suspicious personalities, deduction, attraction, coercion, danger, mayhem, mischief, and murder. Dream Town is the third book in the Archer series, and if you love mysteries set in the glitz and glamour of 1950s Tinseltown, this one won’t disappoint. It’s an intricate, tight, satisfying read by Baldacci, and I can’t wait to read whatever this steadfast gumshoe gets himself tied up in next. Thank you to Grand Central Publishing for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.

Archer is back and takes on the Hollywood scene. While attending a New Years Eve party with his friend and rising actress, Liberty Callahan, Archer is approached by a woman who believes someone is trying to killer and hires Archer to find out who’s after her. When the woman disappears and they find a dead man in her home, Archer begins digging in a town that has multiple faces and alliances. This is the third story set in the 1950s and Baldacci has mastered the feel of the era. It has a feel of a Bogart mystery but with much more thrills and danger. Fans of action and who-done-it stories will love this series. Highly recommended.

Glad I stuck with this series, definitely enjoyed this one.

I adore old black & white movies, and this book transported me right into the magical and glamorous atmosphere of Golden Age Hollywood. But behind the façade, this Dream Town is also a town of vice, scandals and secrets, and P.I. Archer will find himself to dig into that crap to solve a case of murder and vanishing. The dialogues were very brilliant and it was like reading some old-fashioned hard-boiled novel.

I enjoyed following Archer through the third of the series. I will look forward to reading more in the future.

Since I can’t give 4.5 I’ll round up to 5, Aloysius Archer is a fantastic character with a strong moral compass. I really enjoyed these 3 books, and this was the best of all and I like how the whole series captures the mood and atmosphere of the 1940‘s-50‘s. Also enjoyed all the various plot twists which kept me guessing each book. I was rooting for Archer. The end hit me hard. Got hella sad. Shed some tears. I went from a chapter, where my heart was elated and filled with hope and joy and all was right with the world; to the next chapter, feeling my heart sink lower and lower with each passing word. The world is cruel and heartless. 9/10 would recommended if you like thriller/detective stuff and staring into the void for a few minutes once you conclude a series.

Book three in this newest Baldacci series keeps readers turning the pages -all 417 of them. It’s 1953 and PI Aloysius Archer finds himself on a case in Los Angeles surrounded by the glitz of major movie studios where his friend (and more?) Liberty has found work. First there is a missing person. Then there is a murder … and more. In Las Vegas Archer comes face to face with death in the desert. His PI mentor Willie Dash finds the same in LA. There is smuggling, the mob, drugs, a Chinatown den of iniquity and big, dangerous men … and women. Who is real ? Who is faking it ? The action continually ramps up and the ending is surprising. The story draws the reader in and is a worthwhile read. And yet, I miss Puller, Pine, Robie and the Memory Man, too. Still, how much can one author produce all at once ? This reader is challenging you David Baldacci (and Michelle !!) !!

I really enjoyed this. It was fast paced with a lot of action. A couple of nice twists to the plot at the end that I didn't anticipate. That always makes things worthwhile.

It’s 1952 and Los Angeles. PI Aloysius Archer and actress Liberty Callahan are enjoying a New Years Eve dinner when Eleanor Lamb approaches with a request for Archers help. She’s scared someone is trying to kill her, and as a scriptwriter, this is one scenario she doesn’t want anything to do with. With an author like David Baldacci you know you are going to get a really good read, full of twists and turns, a plausible plot and superb characters. This book has it all, including a real feel of the ‘50s in America, the Hollywood casting couch system, and the sad fact that neither drug smuggling nor people smuggling are a recent development. Archers character could have been a bit of a cliche, but he’s not, he comes across as a really complex, loyal and interesting person, the sort you are always going to be rooting for. I like the combination of Archer, Liberty and Dash, I feel as though they are a really well established trio, and really want to find out what happens next. Highly recommended.

This is turning into a memorable series as this is now the third Aloysius Archer PI novel and perhaps the best. I say this as by now we are becoming more comfortable with his character as it develops and more aware of his strengths and indeed his foibles. He is dogged, brave, intuitive and determined with a strong sense of doing what is the right thing and acting as honourably as his profession allows. This time it is Los Angeles and the film studios that come under Baldacci's periscope and he paints a wonderfully detailed picture of the goings on and shenanigans that took place. Never less than exciting, this is an exceptionally good book by an exceptional writer.

David Baldacci’s latest, Dream Town, is the latest installment in the Aloysius Archer series. Archer is a WWII veteran turned private eye in California. Archer is asked to help a friend of a friend and gets sucked into several mysteries. The story takes place in LA, with some trips to Las Vegas. Baldacci brings to life the 1950s PI and Hollywood. Another great story in a fabulous series.

I enjoyed reading this book. It had a good story to it. I liked the variety of characters in it. It was a well written book. I have read other books by this author and liked them too.

A terrible book with an involved plot. Enjoyed it immensely.

One of my fav authors

Third in the Archer series and I LOVED it! I especially like the setting - 1953 Hollywood. No damn computers - No damn cell phones.

OK Mr Grisham, you got back on track with the third book in a BIG way! It's VERY rare for a book to make me cry...but this book...made me shed a couple tears. The last 3 pages broke me. This is the John Grisham I know and love. The same characters appear from the previous 2 books in the series but again you can read this as a standalone and not be confused about anything. Dark Isle is a tiny island between Florida and Georgia that was inhabited by runaway slaves until the 1950s when the last 2 descendants had to leave the island as it was no longer wise to live there. Fast forward to 2020 when money hungry land developers want to buy the land from the state of Florida and pop a casino and hotels on the island. However, 1 descendant of the original occupants is still alive and is claiming ownership of the land. Leading up to the court case on who has the rights to the property, we hear the incredibly captivating and heartbreaking stories of how the first slaves got to the island and the challenges they faced while living there.

No question - it's John Grisham so I have to read it. I do love his books. I found this one to be quite different. Description: In this new thriller on Camino Island, popular bookseller Bruce Cable tells Mercer Mann an irresistible tale that might be her next novel. A giant resort developer is using its political muscle and deep pockets to claim ownership of a deserted island between Florida and Georgia. Only the last living inhabitant of the island, Lovely Jackson, stands in its way. What the developer doesn’t know is that the island has a remarkable history, and locals believe it is cursed… and the past is never the past… My Thoughts: Lovely Jackson's tragic heritage was fascinating. The conditions she and her mother and ancestor faced were extremely difficult and some were horrifying. The curse on the island played an integral part. I found Lovely to be intriguing and quite a character. It was easy for me to be on her side throughout the book. I enjoyed the plot and felt it moved well marrying the past to the present to provide the full picture. I recommend to anyone who likes legal thrillers. Thanks to Doubleday Books through Netgalley for an advance copy.

BOOK REVIEW: Camino Ghosts by John Grisham Series: Camino | Book 3 2024 Publication Date: May 28 ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐⭐ Best Legal Thriller Books T.I.M.E. Favorite Books To Read T.I.M.E. Best Book Club Books T.I.M.E. Best Books By Genre | Thriller T.I.M.E. Most Anticipated Books Of 2024 Pages: 295 Genre: Thriller Sub-Genre: Legal Thriller T.I.M.E. Jalapeno Rating:️ N/A Time Period: Contemporary | 1750 Location: Florida (US) Publisher: Doubleday Books -------------------- All my book reviews can be seen at This Is My Everybody | Simple Living | Denise Wilbanks at thisismyeverybody.com/blog/what-book-... ♡ Thank you to NetGalley for this ARC. I voluntarily chose to review it and the opinions contained within are my own. // COME ON OVER & SAY HELLO!... Website: https://thisismyeverybody.com YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@ThisIsMyEver... Pinterest: https://www.pinterest.com/thisismyeve... Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/thisismyeve... Threads: https://www.threads.net/@thisismyever... Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/thisismyever... Twitter: https://twitter.com/t_everybody TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thisismyevery... And let's be friends here on Goodreads too!... ✨😎✨

This is very low key considering it is from John Grisham, but it is his contribution to the growing literary universe including tributes to those who perished under the scourge of slavery. It is also the third in a series from a writer who usually produces standalones. Returning to Camino Island, with characters encountered in two earlier novels, we encounter Lovely Jackson, descendant of slaves and only living former inhabitant of Dark Isle, having left there in 1955 at the age of 15. Enter Tidal Shores, Grisham's villain per his usual style in the form of a predatory land developer, looking to create a bridge to the island and furnishing it with casinos and high priced condos. Again, this is Grisham's usual style of big guy vs little guy. Descriptions of the original ancestor's capture and her middle passage horrors are the hardest, but the efforts of the heroes of the current age to set these events right provide smooth reading. Grisham does a fine job of "... [taking] the past, with all its complexities, and [tying it] to the present, with all its conflicts." ...

This is the third in the author's Camino Island series, and in many ways, I'll call it my favorite even though I gave each of them 5 stars as well. It's a happy, sad, bittersweet, intriguing, well-written story that held my attention throughout. I will not, though, calll it a "thriller;" nothing in here was the least bit frightening or scary to me. Back to the forefront is Bruce Cable, owner of a bookshop on Camino Island. His friend, author and college teacher Mercer Mann, is looking to write a follow-up to her successful novel but having trouble finding a topic. Ever helpful, Bruce turns to a small self-published history of nearby Dark Island written by local resident Lovely Jackson. Now 80 years old, Lovely claims not only to have lived on the long-deserted island, but is the owner; she was the last inhabitant to leave, and many of her relatives are buried there. She also claims that the island is cursed - and any people not of color (a.k.a. white) will not be welcomed there. But progress, apparently, has no use for claims like hers; a large development company has set its sights on turning Dark Island into a tourist attraction now that a huge storm carved a path for a bridge to be built between the two islands. Despite offers of huge sums of money, Lovely says no deal; so the company, in the belief that Lovely can't prove ownership of Dark Island, decides to take the matter to court. From there, it's a matter of history - readers learn what Lovely knows first-hand and by way of her ancestors, almost all related to the slave trade, kidnapping and worse. In the present, we see how the trial develops, proceeds and ends as an aging Camino Island lawyer who opposes the Dark Island development project takes on Lovely's case in true David v. Goliath fashion. I should note that this book stands alone well, although those who read the first two will have an advantage of being familiar with several of the characters (and besides, they're really good books as well). As for this one, I once again thank the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review a pre-release copy. Loved it!

This is the third book in the Camino Island series by John Grisham and for me, the best one so far. It brings back a few of the characters we have already met and a few new ones including Lovely Jackson and Diane. Mercer Mann is struggling over what book to write for her next novel, next until Bruce Cable offers her Lovely Jackson's short book to read on her honeymoon about Lovely's ancestors who lived on Dark Isle, an island close to Camino Island in Florida. Lovely is the last living survivor of the the Dark Isle, also known as Panther Cay and she claims it as her own after hearing that a large Developer wants to build a casino on the burial grounds on her ancestors after they landed there as former black slaves many years earlier. Despite Lovely having left the island when she was 15 and tending to the graves, she now claims that it belongs to her and with the help of a lawyer and Diane to try and protect her rights. Can an eighty year old who left the island over 50 years ago hold title to an island she hasn't been to for this many years. The book tells the story of Lovely and Mercer, giving the history of Lovely's ancestors in Lovely's own book. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and rounding up my score from 4.5 to 5 stars for a very moving book. I've just heard that Whoopi Goldberg is now going to narrate this book and I think she'll be the perfect narrator for this book. Although it's the third in the series they can easily be read as standalones too. A big thanks to Doubleday books for the opportunity to read this ARC.

I love this series...I'm hoping there will be more...

Another great Grisham book. This one’s about how a ‘cursed’ island deep off Florida came to be. Just a good story.

This is the 3rd book in the series by John Grisham. It was fascinating and kept the pages flying. I was happy to see the return of main characters and the addition of a few new ones including the fascinating Lovely! It starts off and builds with suspense! Thanks to #Netgalley for this ARC!

This was the perfect book for a Florida to Tennessee road trip. We started it in our FL driveway, and finished it as we pulled into our friend’s driveway in TN the next day. Whoopi Golderg, the narrator, was excellent. Camino Island & Camino Winds were road trip books to TN. So it was natural to choose Camino Ghosts for this trip. The story of Dark Isle, whose inhabitants were slaves, is so real! Grisham is skillful in creating it, its backstory, and the last survivor of this island, Lovely Jackson. She writes a book about the island, and Camino Island’s local book dealer, who sells it, is friends with a woman who wants to know more about the island & Lovely for a book she is writing. Grisham’s narrative about the slave trade is so real and believable. One might insist it is fiction, but is it?? Aren’t all tales based in truth? This one seems more fact than fiction. The subplot of big money developers wanting to buy Dark Isle for a resort is so close to reality as well. Remember Gov DeSantis wanting to create Pickle Ball courts and golf courses in state parks during the summer of 2024? No, he doesn’t remember that either. But it was fact. The resolution in Camino Ghosts is satisfying. It was so good that when we shared our thoughts about this book with friends, they thought we were talking about actual events that had happened in our home state! We hope Grisham continues this series. We like the characters!

Grisham is on a role with book #3 with the Camino Island series-old and new islanders..Bruce Cable, bookstore owner, Mercer and Thomas, newlyweds/authors and Lovely Jackson, our new author. A very compelling storyline, historical and fiction facts about an Island, slave trading and courtroom drama to a minimum! Outstanding! Enjoy

Wow. Just wow. That ending…… ___________________________________________ Okay, I took a day to let everything sink in and I'm still blown away. As usual, this book grabs you from the beginning...actually from the prologue (which at least is consistent because each Prologue so far has given me goose bumps with its prescience). We know going in that there is going to be a show down. The conflict between our Protagonist and the bad guy Kattan has been set up in the prior books. But HOW we get to that show down is an amazing ride. As usual, there is a lot going on and I will admit that this book took paths in directions that really, really surprised me. Yet, somehow, it worked. Carr definitely gives the reader descriptive information, and then softens it by having a character freely admit that they have no idea what is being said - Katie with the 1911 info and Reece with the Cyber Warfare info. That makes me feel better as a reader if I also have no idea what they're talking about :) Ray Porter does another fantastic job as the narrator. I alternated between reading and listening and I have to admit, I REALLY enjoyed hearing his South African, Russian and French accents. His breath of talent is truly amazing. There were times I just wanted to listen so I could hear they way he portrayed a certain scene. Odd, I know. But, what can I say? As usual, the thing that is becoming the norm with Mr. Carr's books is the fact that they are over too quickly. It is the biggest compliment to say that an almost 500 page book feels like it is done in a flash, and it did. As usual, the stage is set for another mystery with the bread crumbs being laid for the last three books. What did Thomas Reece leave for his son? Can't wait to find out. And that ending.... Now the wait begins for book 6.........

One great book and one holy crap batman WTH ending. It is a tough time to read this book with all the killings going on in our own country by our own citizens. It is no longer yearly, monthly or weekly news. It has become daily. Jack Carr nails it when he says our country has become divided with it's political parties. A sad case of affairs.

Jack Carr is one of the best in the business when it comes to writing military-grade action thrillers. In the Blood is his latest masterpiece.

As a winner of the goodreads advanced copy give away, I feel obligated to write this review. So from a normal guy who doesn’t write many reviews here goes: This might be my second favorite entry of the Terminal List series. For reference, “Savage Son” is the best, in my opinion. However, by the author’s own admission, “Savage Son” is also the story he has wanted to write since he was a young adult, so it should come as no surprise it is the strongest in the series (again, at least in my opinion). Book five cuts much of the heavy handed political statements present in “The Devil’s Hand”, although the overtones and sentiments are still very much present, as one would (and should) expect in a political military action thriller written by a former Navy SEAL. However, it’s much less “in your face” than it was in book four. Instead, the narrative returns to being heavily focused on the action and the storytelling. While it does get a little complicated as characters try to outwit each other, it is also a welcome return, and this installment provides a little bit of a deeper dive into the spy side of James Reece’s world. As with the previous entries in the series, the information in the book appears to be very well researched by Jack Carr, with many of the events feeling fairly plausible and mostly grounded in reality. Well, all but one thing, but there will be no big spoilers here (other than this “thing” involves cyber security and quantum engineering and almost feels too sci-fi in nature and not at all at home in the Terminal List universe). But then again, maybe Jack Carr knows something I don’t, as the White House has just pledged a budget increase for both cyber security and quantum engineering (as of May 2022). The description of the action scenes is, as always, extremely detailed and paints a beautiful and complete picture in your mind as you read, and of course Carr “nerds out” on many of his vehicle and gear descriptions, which although appreciated by myself, might as well be written in another language if you don’t know what he is talking about. Overall, the story delivers for anyone who is a fan of the series or the genre in general, and appears to wrap up the James Reece storyline…until it doesn’t…(this is a series after all). I loved it and as I stated this might be my second favorite book in the series. 4.5/5, would definitely recommend. *From myself: Book 5 of Terminal List series follows protagonist James Reece as he tracks a world class sniper, in an attempt to avenge the death of his best friend and former SEAL teammate. But the sniper is a hunter as well, and has his own plans for Reece. Their attempts to outsmart each other take them around the world as they draw ever closer to one another. Along the way, Reece will use every contact and resource he has to track his enemy and try to stay one step ahead of a foe who is doing the same. *From the publisher: “A woman boards a plane in the African country of Burkina Faso having just completed a targeted assassination for the state of Israel. Two minutes later, her plane is blown out of the sky. Over six thousand miles away, former Navy SEAL James Reece watches the names and pictures of the victims on cable news. One face triggers a distant memory of a Mossad operative attached to the CIA years earlier in Iraq- a woman with ties to the intelligence services of two nations... a woman Reece thought he would never see again. As Reece tracks down her killer, he may be walking into a deadly trap....Ripped from world events, the twists and turns of In the Blood confirm that “James Reece is one rowdy mother****er" (Chris Pratt, star of The Terminal List, coming to Amazon Prime).”

James Reece finds himself on one wild ride. In his attempt to right the wrongs of the past, he is faced with certain death. Only his training and personal vendetta push him through. What an ending....

Great book! Wanted to see more of Alice which is my only let down. Most sniper scenes in books are kinda boring but Jack Carr hit it out of the park with the tension. The ending also had me SHOOK. Must read.

One of the best In the Blood is one of Jack Carr's best so far. After a bit of a let down with Devil's Hand, this latest book did not disappoint. Loved it. I

5 stars easy… just finished books 4 and 5 in a few days! I read a lot and can tell the author does too! You can see traces of Crile, Clancy, Flyn, Silva, J.Rogin…

This author is like no other….the background, historical facts and superior writing gives this series 5stars! The audiobook is fantastic, the plot/revenge killings, the graphic descriptions in the world in which Reese moves -plus a bonus-Alice. Enjoy

I need to read the next book immediately

Ok full disclosure I won this book in a goodreads giveaway, which was good AND bad. The bad is somewhat silly in that when I am having a poor stretch of dogshit books I like to have one of Carr's books in reserve because they always KICK ASS. The good is I got to read two Carr books in a couple week stretch. This book is a continuation of the James Reece series/saga and it does not disappoint. From the opening action set piece involving the downing of a civilian aircraft to kill one person, to the climax this book grabs you by the throat and does not let go. The action in this book is relentless as Reece tracks a sniper he has vowed to kill for assassinating a close friend. Unbeknownst to Reece dark forces (are there any other kind?!) are at work to kill Reece and keep old secrets buried. During the course of hunting down this sniper Reece encounters an all powerful quantum computer by the name of Alice. This is a very intriguing parallel story line. At once fascinating and deeply disturbing since Alice has the ability to use any modern technological device from a refrigerator to a car computer to not only track someone but also listen in on their conversations. Because Alice is a quantum computer no amount of data is an impediment. As usual the reader follows Reece on his manhunt around the globe from Africa to various parts of Europe. Along the way once again Carr does a masterful job of selecting unique weapons for Reece to utilize and he describes them perfectly throughout the book. As a certified "gun guy" this aspect of Carr's writing is refreshing because he does not screw it up and knows what he is writing about. Also, the reader can expect more mayhem committed by the blade, which is a totally bad ass Carr writing element. This book is my favorite in the series. Carr's writing is vivid and his set pieces are 100% certified BAD ASS. Grab a copy, pick a beverage, recline your seat and get ready to take a wild ride into the take no prisoners world of James Reece.

Another solid offering from Jack Carr. Maybe one of his best. Reminds me of Savage Son, with a more sci-fi twist and grittier sniper action. It’s clear that Jack is only getting better with his storytelling and diving deep into research. It’s inspiring! James Reece is only getting better, and is probably the top protagonist in the genre. Nobody pushes the boundaries like Reece, a man hell bent on waging war on those who want him dead and gone. Even in book 5, the character continues to grow. And the ending…wow.

Fantastic . The best Jack Carr yet

In The Blood is the 5th installment of the James Reece saga that started with The Terminal List. I can't say enough good things about this series and the author Jack Carr. That being said, I was anxious about reading In The Blood after somewhat of a let down (IMO)in the 4th book in the series (The Devil's Hand). In The Blood did not disappoint, in fact it energized my enthusiasm for where James Reece goes in the next installment. This series has easily reached favorite status along side my other favorites such as: Flynn, Thor, Greaney... The ending of In The Blood gets me pumped for the 6th book, unfortunately a year til release. Happy reading

READ MY FULL REVIEW AT Best Thriller Books In the Blood is the best book in the series since The Terminal List. With a plotline focused on revenge and retribution, James Reece is on the hunt and hell bent on fulfilling the promises he’s made. With hints of a techno thriller thrown in, Jack Carr sets up a final twist so shocking that I’m already plotting on how I can get my hands on an early copy of the next one. After a successful assassination in Burkina Faso, a Mossad agent and the rest of the passengers on the commercial flight are shot down by a small band of mercenaries. In the comfort of his Montana home, James Reece watches the victims’ names as faces cross his television screen. When he recognizes a face from his days in the sandbox, memories of a particular Mossad agent attached to the CIA fill his head. Her connection between the two countries and direct ties to Reece will send the former Navy Seal on a global manhunt for those responsible. What makes this book so good, in my personal opinion, is the combination of simplicity and mystery. It is simple in that James Reece is not the type of man who leaves a promise unfulfilled. When his word is given, it’s a matter of “if, not when” the task will be completed. He has vowed to avenge his friend Freddy’s death at the hands of a Syrian sniper and long time fans of the series have a good idea of the violence and action that will come of that. Make sure to check out the full review

Come on now. Alice could save him from this. Also, I definitely got chills from the author's note. I'm wishing Alice a good day, right meow. This one was spectacularly written, and every moment is important. The suspense is real, and the information is staggering. The intro was a stark, terrifying look at what current society is like. Jack Carr's predictive analysis skills are so scarily accurate. To see what our country is becoming and the disinformation campaigns to tear our people into divisive sets that are easier to manipulate and control. I hope to meet Mr. Carr someday because his words have echoed weird life similarities, and he is just a phenomenal analyst. James Reece.. Please tell me he survives in the end. I wanted the happy ever after, but much like the government, I wasn't ready to let him go, either. I think I want to listen to the rest of these in the car because they get to stay with me and my speculations for weeks on end. Also hate hate hate the bookstore scene. But love the new idea. Thank you for your service in things that we will never know the full extent of. 5 Stars

READ MY FULL REVIEW AT Best Thriller Books Make sure to check out the full review

Another 4.5 Star If you haven't been following along with my reads and reviews, I actually got through both The Devil's Hand and now In the Blood by Jack Carr in less than two weeks apart. Needless to say, I'm rather enjoying this series. I only have one more book to be caught up on the series just in time for the next release in another couple of months. The pacing continues to be smooth as far as the prose but lots of suspense and excitement to keep things fresh along the way. I continue to devour these in audio format narrated by Ray Porter. I'll continue to say he does an excellent job bringing this story and it's characters to life. The worldbuilding continues to surprise me and how well I can feel present within the story. As a reader who has primarily focused on science fiction and fantasy for years, I always thought it would be difficult to pull off stories that take place in a mostly real and familiar world like this. The entire series has bounced all over the globe with it's story whether it's providing background and history or current moments and events. Jack Carr also does an excellent job in finding some real life events to mix into his stories which can help readers who are at least a little familiar with them. It just makes things feel that more believable. The character development is solid once again. I felt that we finally started to see some change in James in this story. It's just unfortunate on the timing of how this book ended. However, that does make me anxious to get to the next one to see what happens from that point. The final hunt(s) for In the Blood were just awesome. Seeing two of the best snipers in the world face off in what is basically a chess match trying to guess or second guess what each other may do was just great to see unfold. I don't have much else to add to this read and series other than once again I feel that the author does a great job in making his characters feel very human whether that is for the better or not. Sometimes it helps us connect and feel for the characters and other times it makes us understand just how cruel and twisted people can be as well. I'm going to guess if you are this deep into the series you're probably going to continue to read them as they are released. If you haven't checked out the Terminal List series yet and are looking for good thrillers with plenty of mystery and military fiction type of characters and stories, this is probably right up your alley!

I used to teach kids how to write. And one of the things you do when you teach kids to write is get them to start with small moments - teach them to narrow down their thinking to a small instance in time and write a few sentences about it. Jack Carr is the master of these small moments. He takes very short moments in time and draws them out in individual chapters with engaging description, details, and background. In a chapter where the only thing that really happens is the main character meets another one to procure a weapon, Carr unfolds a 2-minute long event into several pages, and he does it without being dull or tangential. In the Terminal List series, Jack Carr has created a memorable warrior and fighter in ex-Navy SEAL James Reece, the man who has defeated every enemy he has come across while avenging the deaths of his family and teammates -- their deaths a result of a US government conspiracy. In the Blood is the 5th book in the series. It is suspenseful, surprising, poignant, and bursting with action and thrills. Jack Carr is going to take you for a ride across the globe in this novel, and its ending left me shook, as the kids say. In the Blood is absolutely Carr's best book so far. The sixth book comes out on May 16, and I can. not. wait for it. I should also note that I read this via audiobook. Narrator Ray Porter is beyond phenomenal. He is a professional voice actor who's a master at storytelling, and I highly recommend listening to the book this way. I've never listened to audiobooks much before - in fact I think this is the only audiobook I've ever finished - but it's an amazing reading experience. I highly recommend it for this book. In the Blood is Jack Carr's best achievement to date. Get ready for a wild ride.

James Reece is on a mission. To transport a prisoner, who is also a person who killed a friend. This mission is linked also to a former coworker who worked for Israel. While on the mission, thinking it was a security transfer, Reece was attacked. Someone wants him dead. Nothing new. The plot is driven by attack after attack. As more than one person wants him dead, he has no clue as to who wants him to die that badly. One of the tasks or side stories is to give a message to the sister of the deceased coworker. That would not go well. So why is it important for some people to risk their lives to do the right thing? That is the core values at work. That they think what they do is meaningful and contribute to the betterment of society. Just look at how many journalists die each year and you know they are there not to report the truth. For soldiers, they are somewhat similar. It is a satisfying book with a lot of actions. The on-the-fly decision-making and breakdown are really good. It enriches the story and explains the attack much more clearly. It also makes the story more transferrable into movie or show. The story is about revenge and it takes forgiveness to free Reece from it. 4.5 read.

After the misstep with “True Believer” Carr came back with a Vengeance with “Savage Son”. “The Devil’s Hand” was fantastic, “In The Blood” is my new favorite. Jack Carr is an astounding story teller. The plots of these are getting better with every installment and each time he tightens up his craft. There were so many twists and turns that I thought would go differently especially the ending which I loved. James Reece is on the hunt for an assassin that seems to be on the same skill level as himself. But he also must contend with some of the fallout from his previous adventures. Katie is back and better than ever, AND RAIFE IS BACK. James gets deeper and deeper as a character, and Carr’s ability to write him is getting better and better. This books follows suit with the fun enjoyable pacing that Carr does so well. His clean, precise prose that don’t over clock or get in the way of the story being told is a skill, he seems to have wrangled that bull and is really going for his full 8 seconds. I’m so excited to continue this incredible series. I’ll Buy anything he puts out and I’ll read anything with the name “Jack Carr” on the cover. Period.

In The Blood: A Thriller Indeed I thought this was a riveting, action packed, and well written novel. A very exciting read and very engrossing. I thought it had a good James Bond vibe to it. One part reminded me of an episode of Star Trek: The Old Show and a 1970s science fiction movie. The same part reminded me of Hiram Yeager's NUMA computer in the Clive Cussler Dirk Pitt novels. You can tell Jack Carr is very well read with his different references. I love how he sets everything up between Reece and Nizar and how there is a sinister feel in parts. This book made me really look forward to my work breaks and a good way to spend a Saturday afternoon. I was curious all throughout the book about the key, letter, and what the Russians were concerned about regarding Reece's father. I would love to know more about that, however, we might find out about it in a later novel. And wow, what an ending. I am going to have post book depression until we get a new James Reece novel. Jack Carr hit a grand slam with this one. In closing, this book was awesome.

I got exactly what I wanted out of this one. The last couple in this series were very good overall, but there was a little lag in the setup, I felt. Necessary, but still a lag. This installment felt like it hit the ground running and didn’t stop. Even during the setup moments, I felt like the momentum of the story never let up. The action was intense and perfectly described – clear but not so stuck in the details that it slows things down. Sometimes, you can see where a story is going, or you know the endgame. But if it’s done well, the journey is worth it. This book was well worth it; fun and engaging from the start. And of course the setup for the continuation at the end has me yelling, “How can you do this to me?! How long am I going to have to wait for the next one?!” Highly recommended!

Jack Carr is one of the main reasons I’ve started reading again. Aside from the exhilarating adventures of James Reece, it’s hard to not admire the amount of effort that Jack Carr puts into his books. The amount of detail and background information that he gives the readers in every one of his books is incredible. Learning about the capabilities and uses of artificial intelligence while reading “In The Blood” was both fascinating and terrifying, but the way it was used in this book was amazing to follow. I’ve had a hard time believing any new book could top “The Terminal List”, but I think this one gives it a run for its money.

Let me start by saying "Thank you Goodreads for sending me the advance copy! I failed you in the past by receiving an advance copy and not reading it for two years, which completely obliterates the point of sending me the advance copy to begin with. So thank you for giving me another shot!" I've read all of Clancy's Jack Ryan/Jr. I've read all of Thor's Harvath series, some of Flynn's Mitch Rapp, all of Lee Child's Jack Reacher (another genre of sorts, I know), all of Brad Taylor's Pike Logan series, and bits and pieces of many other similar books by other popular authors, and I can tell you this... Carr deserves to be in the conversation for the top of the list in the counter-terrorism genre. He writes similar to Mark Greaney, with the details and the aspects that are clearly from real experiences, but has the quick pace of a Flynn or Thor. Now, to the James Reece story, and book #5... "In the Blood" is about Mr. Reece trying to close out a cruel chapter in his life. He gets an opportunity to find out about technology (which I'm still TBD on whether I believe any of this is even remotely true, but I have no idea, so I don't care and just will say that I think a portion of it is) that our country has that he can exploit to do America's bidding, so to speak. In this particular instance, it is to find a killer from a previous story and put an end to him. Reece thinks this will end this chapter in his life and allow him to walk free into the mountain ranges of Montana with his girlfriend, Katie, and just start living life instead of taking it. I don't want to spoil it for anyone, but the plot is put together quite well and the ending makes you mad that the next story isn't coming out for another year. Carr, keep it up! These stories are amazing and I truly enjoy being a reader of them. I love how, so far at least, they're all chained together so well and one picks up right where the last stopped. If you're on the fence about this series, I sincerely think you should start with The Terminal List and read the whole thing, ESPECIALLY if you're into this genre.

One of the more in depth book of the series that opens many doors of what is to come. Also, ends a large chapter of the series. Personally, I've been waiting for this moment for the entirety of James Reece's journey. Very excited for what is to come. ( also for people who don't read the epilogues, you better start.)

Devouring these books! Very interesting plot line, full of the twists and turns one comes to expect from a James Reece adventure; will this guy ever get the target off his back? Considering todays geopolitical dramas playing out in the eastern European plain (Russian Plain to the Russians of course), the story outlines the political dramas spanning lifetimes that appear to have far reaching future implications; we'll have to wait and see......

Jack Carr has more twists and turns in his book. I think this is the latest in a book every that I have had to make a turn in the plot. Can't wait for the next one, and CAN'T wait to watch the series!!

Love me some James Reese What a cliffhanger ! Can't wait to read book 6

Great book and a great series!!!

Jack Carr knows how to hold your attention. James Reece is such a savage warrior and also a faithful friend and protector. What a great character! And this was a great episode in the ongoing story of a man who struggles to find his identity outside of his profession: killing.

I thought this book was absolutely fantastic! This was the first I’ve read by jack carr & I intend to read everything he has written.

i'm always a little dubious of a second book when i absolutely loved the first one but i loved this book and these characters so so so much. i'll start by saying you really need to read things we never got over first because so much of nash's personality is based off the events in twngo and things we hide from the light picks up where book one leaves off. nash morgan was the town's 'do good' police chief/golden boy who dreamed of getting married and having kids one day. but after the events in twngo, he's a shell of his former self. he doesn't feel much of anything until he sees that his new neighbor is his brother's mysterious ex, lina. lina runs from commitment at all costs but even she can't deny her attraction to nash no matter how wrong for each other they are. but, they might not even get their chance to make bad choices when loose ends from the past start haunting them again. like i said above, i wasn't sure how i was going to feel about this book but i seriously loved it just as much twngo. the pacing was perfect. their relationship was super angsty so we got so much tension and 'will they, won't they' and when they did get together, we got some suspense like we did in knox & naomi's book. nash morgan is really the best of both worlds because he used to be a golden retriever-esque, golden boy but now he's grumpy and hates everyone but he's such a softie and romantic for lina. i LOVEDDDD him. the dirty talk was phenom and he was just such a good hero. he knew he had his work cut out for him with lina and he was not afraid to put in the work, at all. lina is such a badass. sometimes i get bored with very commitment-phobic heroines because no matter what the hero does, they don't give an inch but lina was a perfect balance of hard and soft and the banter between these two was so good. i love a little bit of small town suspense and the plot twists had me on the edge of my seat. this is a slow burn but the tension leading up to it is hottttt and the spice once the burn starts burning was delish. and the best part - we get SO MANY cute knox/naomi/waylay moments. they are an integral part of this story and seeing my baby knox emotional over both of his girls was so cute. i am a sucker for grumpy/sunshine and have mommy issues like way so they will always edge out as my faves but this was seriously such a good read. i cannottttt wait for luc & sloane's story because they will be the grumpy sunshine to end all grumpy sunshines.

As much as loved book 1 Things We Never Got Over, this one really Knocked Me Out! I wanna have Nash Morgan's Babies...but first let me take a selfie with Angelina Solavita. There's not been created a better kickass, mouthy, smart as a whip heroine like Lina is. She's razor sharp in investigation and wit, takes no prisoners when she uses her scathing tongue and can hold her own when faced with Four Dumbasses Of The Apocalypse Namely Nash Morgan, Mr. studly Do-Right, Knox Morgan, an even grumpier, even tatted big hulking Morgan brother, Lucian Rollins, the sexy danger in a suit and U.S. Marshall shadow Nolan Graham. “I just wish I woulda kept trying to look to the light instead of sinking into the dark,” he said. “A man can learn to live in that dark, but it’s no life.” Lucy manages to make them hot and hotter. I had a hard time deciding whose bed heart to fall in. They've taken town as their own domain and nothing happens here that they don't know about. Or so they think, cause Duncan Hugo is playing Cat & Mouse with them all, hiding in plain sight. It's a thrilling adventure, A slapstick Enemies-to-lovers, a grumpy sunshine. But at the end its all about love conquering all. The sex, The badge and the fights. Nash & Leens win 'em all 5 stars for the Morgan Way Follow me on: Email🌻 Bookbub 🌻 Twitter🌻 Instagram🌻 Blog🌻 Facebook🌻 Amazon 🌻

WOW!! Lucy Score did it again! Picking up right where Things We Never Got Over left off, I was immediately transported right back into the heart of Knockemout, VA with all of our favorite main characters such as Knox, Naomi, & Waylay...plus all the quirky side characters we fell in love with in TWNGO! I absolutely loved getting to know Nash throughout the story & resonated with Lina throughout the book as well. I really enjoyed how the story centered around Lina & Nash while giving us glimpses into Knox & Naomi's life after falling in love with them in the first book. This story had a suspenseful edge from the start and kept me hooked until the very end. I devoured this book in less than 24 hours, I just couldn't put it down! Things We Hide From The Light was easily one of my most anticipated releases of 2023. Thank you That's What She Said Publishing for the E-ARC, I am forever grateful! I will be on the edge of my seat waiting for Lucian & Sloane's book next!

5/5★ I don’t understand how some people don’t like this book… IT’S LITERALLY PERFECT!!! And in my opinion it’s even a tiny bit better than the first book (but that might just be me). I just adore everything this book had in it! The side plot, the main plot, the main characters (both), the romance, the friendships… just EVERYTHING!!! I went into this book with pretty low expectations because everyone said that this book is not as good as the first book but boy was I proven wrong!! It just had everything in it that (imo) lacked in book 1. For instance, the mmc wasn’t an unnecessary dick and wasn’t acting childish for no reasons. Quite the opposite! All his actions just made sense to me, which made me therefore absolutely LOVE Nash!! He’s literally such a sweetheart!! He has been through so so much and I get why he has trust issues and sometimes acts irrationally or without really thinking things through. He was just trying to do what was best for everyone and himself and I love him for that! *Sighs* I’m in love with him… Also the depth of character, Lina had!!!! She was so so interesting and I love how different of a fmc she was!! The world definitely needs more fmcs like her! She’s so smart, witty, badass, cool and incredible!! It was just a nice change to see the fmc be closed off and kind of standoff-ish towards everyone. Made me love her even more!! And the way she wanted to change for Nash?!?! Ugh my heart!!! She literally wanted to be the best version of herself for Nash because she knows that is what he deserves, it literally had my heart melting!!! I loved their dynamic in general!! The way they just completed one another in so many different ways, both emotionally and physically, had me grinning and giggling and kicking my feet!!! They were just such a perfect match for one another!!! I mean… opposites attract and forbidden romance, what more can you ask for?!?! These two just own my heart and I couldn’t be more in love with them!! Not only was the romance freaking ADORABLE and TO DIE FOR, the side plot was so freaking interesting and had me literally on the edge of my seat at the ending!! I was sweating and biting my finger nails out of stress, it wasn’t even funny!!! For a small town romance, this book sure was quite suspenseful lmao. What I also absolutely adored was the group dynamic between all the main couples!! It was so endearing to read about their different friendships and how they all developed to be this close with one another! We love a good found family trope!! Made the book even better!!! Overall, this book was and absolute banger and I honestly don’t understand why some people dislike it! It was everything and more!!! I’m now even more excited for Lucian and Sloane!!! The crumbs this book gave me were most definitely NOT enough!! I need their book NOW!!! Can’t wait for it to be released tomorrow :))

4.5 stars I finished just in time to meet LUCY FREAKING SCORE TOMORROW!!!!!! Perfect for pub day! Any who, oh my gosh I loved it. And it kept me on my toes especially during the most action packed/suspenseful moments!! Nash may have just stolen my heart because he was flat out perfect. Him & his fine ass that has the whole town talking 😛 I cannot believe some of the things that came out of that man’s mouth. Whew I loved it. & I can relate to Lina so much…especially with that shoe addiction heh. She was a fiery hell-raiser & I knew I was going to love her from the bits we got to see in TWNGO!! Nash & Lina had the BEST freaking chemistry. I swear I felt butterflies so many damn times I’ve lost count. But boy oh boy did they have some steamyyyyyy moments that I won’t be able to forget! I need to take a cold shower… I will also say I was laughing my ass off on so many different occasions & I just absolutely love that about Lucy’s books. Piper 🫶🫶 she stole my heart as soon as Nash rescued her. Two broken people find each other & realize that they may be each others missing puzzle piece, and we get to go along this journey in hopes of them finding their happy ever after. Both the epilogue & bonus epilogue had me in freaking tears. Ugh it was perfect & my heart melted. Spice: 🌶🌶.5 Tropes: Small town Forced proximity Neighbors to lovers Brothers ex-girlfriend Reverse grumpy sunshine

I had this realisation in the middle of last night that this was going to be Nash's book and couldn't sleep afterwards because of the disappointment 🙃 LUCIAN AND SLOANE YESSSSSS 🥺🔥🔥💕💕💕💕 Hope the third one is Lina and Nash 💞💞💞💞

Ah, I freaking loved this. Not only do I think I would enjoy this at any time, but I picked it up at the RIGHT time. On the cusp of a reading slump and needing something familiar, this called to me and I'm so freaking glad. I loved Lina and Nash and all of their baggage that we worked through with them. Their character arcs were great and I loved the plot in the background carrying on from book 1. Also the side character, they just make these books 100 times better. I can't wait for book 3. 👀

This book is so beyond cheesy, but I don't care because I think I loved it. You can judge me, but i’m fully riding the high of the ending and giving it five stars. “Being vulnerable doesn’t mean you’re weak. It means you trust yourself to be strong enough to handle the hurt. It’s actually the purest form of strength.” Things We Hide from the Light is the second book of the Knockemout series. This book follows Nash and Lina, and picks up after the events of the hugely popular and favourite of mine, Things We Never Got Over. In the beginning, I was worried that the book would be a repetition of the same jokes we’d already heard, but once the story got going, it really evolved beyond that. 👇 The tropes 🏞 Small town romance 👨‍👩‍👧‍👦 Found family vibes ☯️ Opposites attract 💬 Explores mental health 🐶 Cute dog 🔫 High action 🌶️ Spicy 🥹 Potential crying I appreciated the vulnerability of Nash and Lina throughout the book. They were both working through some serious emotions that I thought was handled really well. They were also seriously hot for each other too - I listened to the audiobook and would 10/10 recommend it. Whenever you’re close, everything is better. The closer you are, the easier I breathe, the less I feel like life is just a never-ending pour of lemon juice into an open wound that won’t heal. You take away the dark, the cold. And you remind me what it’s like to want to be here.” I’m starting to understand that maybe life isn’t something to get through with the least amount of discomfort possible. Maybe it’s about experiencing it all. The good, the bad, and everything in between. Along with the cheesy, there were some heartwarming moments in this book - when Nash gives Lina the earrings and when Lina doesn't let Nash push her away 💝 ahhh, my heart! As always, Lucy Score gives us an epic happy ending with a delightful epilogue, and I absolutely cannot wait for Lucien and Sloane’s book!

the best thing a book can be is: - about family - written by ann patchett https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com... the other best thing a book can be is: - among the absolute fraction of things i read that magically, miraculously, divinely qualifies as 5 stars. this is both. i had no idea it was the great dream of my life to have three daughters and spend my days with them and my husband and a rescue dog picking cherries and telling stories in our orchard in michigan, but this was too damn dreamy for that not to be the case. it's too auspicious, encountering my second beloved michigan cherry book. plus they're my favorite fruit. i will hereby be retiring from the review game in order to dedicate my life to google maps-ing "fruit trees accompanied by white farmhouses near lakes." this book was strange and imperfect, kind of bumpy and (bizarrely) poorly edited and uncompelling in spots, but...i never stopped wanting to be reading it. whenever i'm in my dear lovely favorite independent bookstore, i have a careful(ish) allowance. i can buy as many books from the on-sale rescue-these-books-from-remainder-table as my charitable heart desires, but i can only buy one full-price hardcover. this was that one. i chose really, really well. bottom line: sometimes you think you'll love a book, and then you do. that feeling never gets old.

Ah, Patchett. This story is the cherry on top. And in centre. And even at the bottom. The Sweet ones - not the tart. Three curious daughters longing to know of their mom’s past involving a famously handsome actor. On a cherry orchard. During the summer. During Covid. Patchett’s story telling is rich and reflective; layered with memories, sisters, family; the complexity of relationships and life decisions. As a mother myself, is anything more pure than having your children’s adoration for wanting to know of your past? A family fortunate to be able to huddle together during an isolating time. And so My girl crush continues on you, Patchett 💕 and I’m reminded I still have to read The Dutch House! 5⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

I don't fall in love with many books but this one is too beautiful not to. So my advice would be that if you haven't already seen Our Town then you either read the play or watch the movie (even though they changed the end of the 1940 version) because this book is an homage to that play. The story of Lara Kinnison, Joe Nelson and Peter Duke is a mirror of Our Town by Thornton Wilder. Lara is a small town girl who plays Emily from Our Town in a community theatre production. Some producer sees her and whisks her away to Hollywood but events conspire and Lara finds herself back in Michigan at Tom Lake playing summer stock as Emily opposite the charismatic Peter Duke. This novel is steeped in the same spell that Our Town casts. It follows Lara into the next generation where, years later, she is a wife and mother -- her grown daughters home during lockdown to help bring in the cherry harvest on the family farm. As they work Lara recounts her life as an actress, her love affair with Duke and how she ended up with the real hero of the story, their father. This is my first Ann Patchett, it won't be my last. I found the rhythm of her prose hypnotic. I found myself speaking the dialogue with the same slow drawl as used in Our Town. It is primarily a book about family and continuity, about ambitions and real dreams, about love and acceptance and understanding. It is about knowing who you really are and what you really want from life. I honestly loved this book and I certainly didn't expect to. Highly recommended. Thankyou to Netgalley and Bloomsbury Publishing for the advanced review copy.

If I tell you this beautiful, poignant novel has echoes of Chekhov, you may shrug and think to yourself, "Nope, not for me." If I share with you that the tale is even more remarkable if you know Thornton Wilder's play, "Our Town," you may decide, "Only vaguely recall it," and hit hard pass. But Ann Patchett has written some extraordinary novels, and this one might be my very favorite. It's the summer of 2020, but the principal role the cataclysmic pandemic plays is that narrator Lara Nelson (she dropped the "u" in Laura while reading Dr. Zhivago) and her husband have their three grown daughters home with them at their cherry orchard in northern Michigan. And over the course of the harvest, Lara shares with her girls how she went from playing Emily in "Our Town" in high school and college, to a brief career as a movie actress (and her fling with an actual movie star), to settling down to run a cherry farm with her husband. Patchett moves the story back and forth in time, and whether Lara is doing summer stock in Michigan (with that soon-to-be cinematic heartthrob) in the past or escaping to the lake for a swim with her grown daughters, there is a revelation or discovery or insight into what really moves the human heart. Rarely has a novel so perfectly captured the love that's possible between parents and children and between spouses with such casual, understated eloquence.

When I moved at the end of the summer, this book everyone was talking about was waiting here at my new house when I arrived. Opening the package and finding the signed book plate and matching tote, along with the beautiful book, brought immense joy after some really tough weeks and an extremely arduous (hot!) day. I’m already a fan of Patchett’s work, and Tom Lake is absolutely my favorite of all the ones I’ve read. Lara, her husband, and three grown daughters live on a cherry farm in Michigan. Lara’s daughters beg her to share the story of the summer she dated a man who became a famous movie star. Thankfully Lara tells the reader the whole story, even if she does hold a little back from her daughters. The writing is exquisite, easy to read, alluring, and consuming. I could not rush the experience because it was just too good. The cherry farming facts were almost as fascinating as Lara’s time spent acting. It was all extraordinary. I cherished every ounce of this story. I know not everyone read Our Town before reading this book, but I highly suggest you do. Thank you, @debbielynnwells, for this recommendation. I saw the play years ago, but reading the play really left a mark and added insight to the story I would have missed otherwise. I wish I could watch the play again and then read the book for the first time all over again. I’ll definitely be listening to the audio with Meryl Streep narrating in the future. There aren’t enough words to gush about this one. Definitely a favorite for me this year. I received a free copy. Many of my reviews can be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

I started reading this novel for my IRL book club with some trepidation as I was SO disappointed in the Dutch House. This my 3rd novel by Patchett (also read the terrific Bel Canto) and the one I have liked the best thus far. I was so satisfied (like after a great meal with wine and friends) when I closed the book although I wanted to stay with the Nelsons on their farm. I can't best the comment in the book jacket a meditation on youthful love, married love, & the lives of our parents before they were our parents. Both hopeful and elegiac, it explores what it means to be happy ... Wilder's play Our Town is a large character as well as Lara & Joe and their 3 daughters, along with characters of the past Ripley, Peter and Sebastion Duke and Pallace. Chekov's The Cherry Orchard takes a turn as well. The story flows back & forth effortlessly between contemporary time and when Lara, an aspiring actress, spent the summer at Tom Lake doing summer stock theater. I try to stay away from unfolding the story (its part of the joy of reading or listening to the story, doesn't it?) so I'll leave it by just saying it was a beautifully told story and that I was as eager to hear the next chapter as Lara's daughters were. BTW I loved that Lara's daughters were named after such influential women in Lara's life.

Ann Patchett has done it again! One of my favorite authors on the planet has once again written a poignant, beautiful story, masterfully told in a way that had me hanging on to her every word from the first page to the last (and never wanting it to end). Told from the first person viewpoint of the main character Lara Kinnison, who lives with her husband Joe on a cherry farm in Michigan, the story weaves seamlessly between past and present as Lara tells her three grown daughters (who have returned to the farm during the pandemic to help with cherry picking) about the time she played summer stock at a theater company named Tom Lake, where she also had a brief romance with an actor named Peter Duke (who later becomes a hugely popular and famous actor). I mention the pandemic, but please note that this is NOT a pandemic novel — instead, this is a novel about complicated family dynamics (especially the relationship between parents and their children), about love in its many iterations, about the innocence of youth, and above all else, about the complexities of human relationships. With this novel, Patchett once again does what she is so good at — she presents an epic, luminous, profoundly perceptive story, but in a way that is subtle, exquisite, and never feels overwhelming. Patchett writes with an emotional subtlety that I absolutely love, but it was especially effective with this story, which, at its core, is an homage to Thornton Wilder’s classic play Our Town . There was so much to love about this book — the gorgeous prose, the flawless writing, the endearing characters, the subtle humor, the picturesque setting, the quiet beauty of the story told in a wistful yet hopeful tone, the perfect amount of detail to establish a sense of place that made for an incredibly immersive experience, etc (and that’s just scratching the surface). In terms of the Our Town references — I had actually never read that classic, but immediately after finishing Tom Lake , I went and bought a copy of Our Town because I felt compelled to finally read it (on a recent podcast interview that Patchett did, the host said she should get a commission for all the times someone bought Our Town after reading her novel and I agree 100%!). Given how much I adored Patchett’s newest novel, of course I recommend that everyone read it. For me, I will read anything she writes at this point and while I wait for future new work, I will continue to slowly work my way through her backlist as I have been doing (I intend to be a completist of her work at some point). Received ARC from Harper via NetGalley.

Might be her finest novel so far, and definitely the one I liked best. Also, Meryl Streep did an amazing job narrating it.

Contemporary fiction at its finest! The characters from Ann Patchett’s Tom Lake will stay with me for a long time. She is able to creating people who are so real that you expect to bump into them on the street (if you live near a cherry farm in Michigan, that is). ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Read this if you like: 🍒 Family Secrets 🍒 Theater 🍒 Farm Life 🍒 Dual POVs 🍒 Road Not Taken Trope 🍒 Strong, Loving marriage Tom Lake is a Reese’s Book Club Pick and audiobook fans, and it’s read by the one and only Meryl Streep! I listened to Tom Lake through the LibroFm app because I like to support independent bookstores.

There is something singularly bittersweet about being young and acting in summer stock theaters—the romances that happen, the blurring of life onstage and off. And then as you get older, the private histories between you and actors who go on to become famous—it’s all part of you, embedded but never spoken. But you don’t need to have this background to appreciate Ann Patchett’s languorous novel about a young actress discovered in a university production of Thornton Wilder’s Our Town and this story that pays homage to that work. Beautifully written. A pleasure to read.

I wonder if Meryl Streep has any idea how much joy, how much empathy, how much sadness—in short, how much feeling she has brought into the hearts of the people of the world. She must have some idea (after 21 nominations and 3 Oscars), but I wonder if anyone could ever understand that or even be able to measure it in any comprehensible way. Multiply the hours by millions, I would say. And that would be too large a number to grasp. Tom Lake, as read by Streep, is as charming as a Michigan postcard, as pretty as a little girl’s summer dress in cherry print cotton. It is the stories of a group of people who meet playing summer stock, told by a mom years later to her grown up daughters. It is about first love and betrayal. It is about finding what you truly want to do, want to be, whom to love and how to live. Whenever I think about writing a memoir, I shrink back for fear of saying too much. I mean, you can’t write a memoir without being honest, can you? And maybe honesty is just too hard at times. What would the people you love say? After all, nobody else was in the exact same circumstances, so how could they understand? Would they make the same stupid choices? Maybe they would be smarter than I was, but I wouldn’t want the judgment. How do you tell your grown up daughter’s about a love affair that happened 20-25 years ago? What do you tell and what do you hide? What is too personal or embarrassing or too devastating to reveal? Ann Patchett solves the problem by writing fiction. In this novel, she explores how much a mother can reveal and how much must be kept to herself. It is a stunning story because she lets the reader in on the full truth. I already had purchased a hard copy when I found out that Meryl Streep was reading the audio version, and since I had points and finished my last audiobook, I switched to listening. I was so glad I did.

This story felt like lying out in the sun without sunscreen; warm, comforting and with a feeling of impending doom that you can’t fully bat away. I don’t know how a story can simultaneously feel so cozy and ominous all at once. In the summer of 2020, Lara’s three adult daughters come home to the family cherry farm to quarantine with their parents. While tirelessly picking cherries, the girls beg their mother to share every detail of a starlit summer long ago when she dated the famous actor Peter Duke. We then enter a dual timeline that jumps between ritualistic life on the farm and the dazzling chaos of life onstage. The more I think about Lara’s story, the more I love it. It transported me to when I was a teenager and every summer felt like a coming of age film (with all the highs and lows.) The dual timeline and beautiful imagery came together like a dream. This was so incredibly human. I already can’t wait to reread! ALSO!!! MERYL STREEP PUT HER WHOLE SOUL INTO THAT AUDIOBOOK. This was truly one of the best audiobooks I have EVER listened to!!!

Gabriel Allon is leaving the Office in a year and a half. That is not a spoiler, if you’ve been reading Daniel Silva’s books you know this. He’s earned the right to his happy ending; to live out the rest of his life with his children and his beautiful and extremely smart wife doing exactly what makes him happy which is restoring art and people. Now that that’s out of the way onto the housekeeping. Yes, I received an ARC (Advance Reader’s Copy) which means I’ll read, and it be completely honest. If I don’t like it, if in any way I am disappointed I’m free to say that. In all honesty, that has never happened although I do have several all-time favorites. When I started reading The Cellist, I was happily meeting old friends from The Office and smiling every time one of them appeared especially David Bull. It was as if a breeze of fresh air blew into my home. Layer by layer like a painter restoring an art treasure or page by page like an author who is master of his craft a spell was being woven. There was the sly, dry humor and the familiar repetition of phrases. Just ask me what someone important was wearing; I can repeat verbatim and ‘the waiting, always the waiting’ among other descriptions of character or clothing. Silva’s characters are as real to him as they are to the readers; you can hear that when he discusses them in an interview. His admiration and respect for women is also clear in the way he writes about them and talks about them which is a rare treat. The Cellist brings Gabriel and The Office back to an old enemy one who is one of the few who tried to kill his wife and still lives one whose goal is to destroy the West from within by any means but especially money and delight in it while he’s amassing huge amounts of money and power. This would be the leader of Russia of course. Gabriel is drawn into this by an old friend who owns an art gallery in London after another old friend who saved his life and his wife’s is killed by the Russian leader’s minions and by using his alliances with the UK, France, Switzerland he begins to pull the threads of the deception and the murder together into an unsettling picture not just of corruption but of a plan to bring down the United States from within. Mr. Big as he’s referred to in this book uses a Russian think tank to question democracy and feed false information into the ears of Tucker Carlson and others of the same ilk who would broadcast these lies to a gullible but willing audience. The most important part of this story takes place in The United States at the worst time in our history leading up to January 6, 2021. To see exactly how the Russian despot could play the long game and use the former president, his weaknesses and foibles and innate corruption to try to overthrow our Democracy from within which has always been his plan. The long game was never to destroy this country from without but to use someone like this to bring down this country from within and turn the US into his own version of Stalin’s gulags for the twisted pleasure and greed of a despot. This was a story that had to be told. It was important enough to be told in the context of fiction so people would be willingly educated while being entertained. He used actual events which he wove into this story so much so that it’s difficult sometimes to see where the truth ends, and fiction begins. We were lucky to have had him and his past experiences as a journalist which enabled him to understand political gamesmanship and treachery to write this book right now! Even though it has heart stopping moments that take your breath away it ends, as they all do, with humor and matchmaking. So, it ends with a smile and hope.

Love this series. Captivating, realistic and very timely, no one does it better than Silva.

Fascinating, compelling and one of the most unique 'spy' dramas I've encountered, the author immerses the reader with brilliance. There's little doubt Silva's characters, pacing and narrative approach redefine page turner while the topical research is impeccable. Feigning the usual overuse of violence, blood and hatred, he replaces them with international intrigue, and with this story, the use of Russian wealth as a weapon against democracy. Here we find Gabriel Allon as Director of Israeli intelligence where he learns of the loss of his friend Victor Orlov. Having waged a tireless campaign against the authoritarian kleptocrats in the Kremlin, a reporter working for Orlov's anti-Kremlin publication delivers documents laced with a deadly nerve agent. Soon after she slips away from London and M16 assumes she's a Russian assassin. But Allon's knowledge of the Kremlin has him come to an entirely different conclusion; one that involves Russian money laundering hiding a sophisticated operation to undermine democracy. Tracing the source of the nerve agent, intelligence gathering points to RhineBank run by Arkady Asimov, a financial mastermind that makes Bernie Madoff look like a boy scout. A multi-billionaire/womanizer connected directly to Russia's president, he's ruthless, greedy and unruly as they come. With Asimov's weakness for the arts and women, Allon traps Isabel Brennan, a beautiful cellist and employee of RhineBank's dirtiest operations using his leverage as director of intelligence. As typical, Gabriel assembles a team whose goal is to appeal to Asimov's greed with a scheme that uses Isabel and long time friend/financier Martin Landesman as its foundation. Extremely complex, the scheme takes the reader from London, then Amsterdam and eventually to Geneva while the plot evolves with each chapter. Silva's mastery shines when he moves from the world of Russian money laundering to the 2020 election where a plot to assassinate the president elect comes into play. Using fictionalized names for Putin and Trump, Silva's final twist has the reader wonder if he was privy to US intelligence. Of the two previous Allon books I'd read, this was the first where he was Director of Israeli Intelligence. With use of concise, 'cliff hanger' style chapters, Silva demonstrates extensive knowledge of the spy game, art, cuisine and 'money' that create a compelling, immersive experience. With a personal preference for literary fiction, its my humble opinion this author is one of the best, regardless of genre.

The Cellist July 17, 2021 Book Review The Cellist Daniel Silva reviewed by Lou Jacobs readersremains.com | Goodreads Legendary spy, assassin, and art restorer Gabriel Allon is back in another masterful tale of suspense and international intrigue. Gabriel is now the director-general of Israel’s vaunted intelligence service, sometimes referred to as “the Office.” Although this is the twenty-first compelling adventure of the legendary spymaster, it can be enjoyed as a standalone, as Silva once again, seamlessly provides the necessary backstory. I have read them all, and feverishly try to savor each one, but could not help but quickly devour this immersive tale. As always, Silva employs timely events to weave his compelling tale of intrigue. As the story unfolds the world is gripped in a worldwide pandemic as the Russians continue to meddle in world affairs in an attempt to undermine democracy. No time is wasted, as the initial salvo results in intrigue with the murder of prominent and wealthy Russian dissident Viktor Orlov in his London home. It appears he was exposed to the Russian nerve agent, Novichok, as he was opening a cache of documents just delivered to his residence by investigative journalist, Nina Antonova. Nina works for his dissident newspaper, the Moskovskaya Gazeta. Immediately the question arises: Was she a Russian asset embedded into the newspaper or was she somehow duped into delivering the tainted documents? This was not the first packet of documents delivered that incriminated the money trail leading to Omega Holdings. Assets of billions were being hidden beneath layers of shell corporations by a highly placed Russian, who was most likely close to the president of Russia, and probably part of his inner circle. This Russian was virtually stealing government assets for his own personal wealth. These packets of incriminating data were being supplied by an unknown source, going by the nom de plume of “Mr. Nobody.” Gabriel owes his life to Viktor, as he was instrumental in gaining his and his wife’s freedom from the clutches of the Russian government. Gabriel immediately mounts an investigation into his murder and assembles his hand-picked team of fearless operatives known by the code name, Barak (Hebrew world for lightening) due to their uncanny ability to gather and strike quickly. A team of operatives that we have encountered in previous books, but are re-introduced for the new reader. Several other beloved characters and assets of Gabriel’s are re-introduced and play an important part in the unfolding drama. Sara Bancroft, previous asset and lover, has recently come to London to assume a managerial position at Isherwood Fine Arts studio, and Christopher Keller returns as “Peter Marlowe,” although now working for the British M16, he was a previous freelance assassin and “hit man.” Gabriel soon learns that “Mr. Nobody” is actually Isabel Brenner, a compliance officer for the Rhine Bank of Zurich. Which is widely acknowledged as the dirtiest and most nefarious bank in the world. As an aside, we learn that this same bank financed both the building of Auschwitz concentration camp, as well as the factory that produced Zyklon B pellets that were used in the gas chambers. Isabel is an accomplished cellist, but gave up a professional career to pursue an advanced education in finance and economics. Her first job was a risk manager at the Hamburg branch of Rhine Bank, where she daily battled with the ethically challenged traders. Rather than fire her, she was transferred to the Zurich branch as a compliance officer. She quickly uncovered the “Russian Laundromat” section of the bank, which surreptitiously “cleaned” the ill-gotten assets. She had hoped to expose them through the investigative journalism of Nina Antonova. Isabel will play a pivotal role as she willingly joins Gabriel’s team, and enters into a crash course in tradecraft. Soon Gabriel’s team identified Arkady Akimov as the Russian behind Omega Holdings. Arkady is an oil trader and oligarch, living luxuriously on the shores of Lake Geneva. Most of his employees at his firm NevaNeft are former Russian intelligence officers of the KGB. He was boyhood friends with President Vladimir Vladimirovich and both were recruited by KGB and attended the Red Banner Institute spy school. Both were experts at propaganda, political warfare, disinformation, subversion, and influence operations—all designed to tear at the fabric of Western society. Arkady was instrumental in placing Vladimir into the Grand Kremlin Palace. He was aware that “Money” was Russia’s greatest weapon. It was used to trap and ensnare businessmen, bankers, politicians, and even high ranking senior intelligence operatives, in an effort to rot the integrity of Western society from within. Gabriel’s grand plan to ensnare Arkady Akimov had many moving parts. His intricate plan involved enticing the already infatuated Arkady with the beautiful, intelligent, and talented Isabel, using her talents with the cello and numbers. A monumental cultural event was orchestrated that Arkady could not possibly miss. The One World Global Alliance for Democracy scheduled an event at the Kunsthaus Art Museum of Zurich for the unveiling of a recently discovered lost painting “The Lute Player” attributed to the famous painter, Artemisia Gentileschi. This was being sponsored by financier and philanthropist Martin Landesmann, who was promising an appearance of the world-famous Swiss violinist, Anna Rolfe. (We discover that Rolfe and Allon have had a prior six-month tumultuous relationship). Silva proves to be a masterful storyteller as he weaves a complex and twisted tale of intrigue, deception, greed, bloodlust, and violence. He effortlessly creates a cast of supporting diverse characters that are well fleshed out in an utterly believable world building setting that involves present day issues, concerns and even politics. This proves to be a scary cautionary tale. One can only hope that we have not seen the last of the talented Isabel Brenner. Thanks to Harper Collins Publishers for supplying an advance copy of this compelling novel in exchange for an honest review. ..... Published at Mystery and Suspense Magazine ....

My first exposure to author DANIEL SILVA took place in August 2009 and I have been a fan ever since. THE CELLIST is book 21 in the series featuring Israeli Renaissance art restorer and super spy Gabriel Allon. My version of the book was listed at 472 pages but it read as if it was half that number. The character’s background starts in 1972 after the Munich Olympic Games during which eleven Israeli athletes were assassinated by terrorists. On the team that hunted down the perpetrators was one Gabriel Allon, his first assignment. In this installment, set in 2020 and 2021, Allon is nearing the end of his first term as Director of The Office (read Mossad), Israel’s supreme intelligence organization. Allon is unsure if he wants a second term. He would rather retire to Venice, Italy where his father-in-law is the Chief Rabbi. One of the early books in the series saw Allon restoring a painting in that city, in a church, for the Vatican. His second wife Chiara and their twins Raphael and Irene would like that as well. His mentor, best friend and predecessor, Ari Shamron (now retired) wants him to continue as Director. This story begins early in 2020 and runs through the inauguration of the American President in January 2021. Zurich and Geneva (Switzerland), London (England), Israel, Washington, D.C. and Courchevel (France) are the main locations. As Director of The Company, Allon has a Gulfstream jet as his transportation for international travel that his adventures take him. The story opens with the assassination of Viktor Orlov, a Russian billionaire living in London. He is also an art collector. Orlov had agreed to buy a “lost” Renaissance masterpiece discovered by Sarah Bancroft (former C.I.A. agent). She is also a friend of Allon and an art dealer in London. Orlov was a friend of Allon and had saved his life in a previous book. Prior to his untimely death, Orlov was the owner a news magazine in Moscow (Russia) that opposed Vladimir Putin. His last known visitor is Nina Antonova, one of his reporters. She had delivered to him a file of information documenting the laundering of money owned by Putin and his cabal. The amount of dollars is staggering (billions of them). Allon and his team, with the aid of Swiss Intelligence, MI6 and the C.I.A, hatch a plan to discredit the bank involved, RhineBank A.G. (loosely based on real Deutsche Bank) as well as the Russian leaders involved. To help his team, Allon recruits Isabel Brenner, one of the employees of the bank, who had been supplying Nina Antonova with the documentation. Brenner is also a cellist who has great talent as a musician and that plays into the scheme. The book has it all – chases through snow-covered Alpine valleys, the halls of high finance/money-laundering and mayhem most obscene. In an afterword, Daniel Siva exposes what is true and what is not. This is a DO NOT MISS type of story for most readers. Fast paced, wonderful characters (good and bad), plenty of action and intrigue with strong female leads. I cannot wait to see what happens in the next book. VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! GO! BUY! READ!

It’s unusual to start a book review with direct quotes from the author. However, in the case of Daniel Silva’s 21st novel featuring legendary spy and art restorer Gabriel Allon, I’m making an exception. THE CELLIST is set largely during the autumn of 2020, with the climax taking place on Inauguration Day. However, Silva happened to be in the nation’s capital on business on January 6, 2021. Watching television that morning, he sensed that turmoil could arise after Donald Trump’s speech on the Ellipse. He states during an interview with his publisher, HarperCollins, “Nothing could have prepared me for the sight of his supporters rampaging through the halls of Congress…breaking windows, stealing documents and computers, defacing art, searching for lawmakers to kidnap or kill.” Silva continues: “I jettisoned my planned ending, threw out several hundred pages of material, and rewrote the book almost in its entirety over a span of about six weeks. When I finished my first draft, I was essentially left with two novels --- the novel I had intended to write and the one I ended up writing after the insurrection. All of the events had to be pushed back in time and largely rewritten and recast…challenging to say the least.” But despite these obstacles, Silva still met his publisher's deadline for the book's manuscript, pulling it off in time for his traditional July publication. THE CELLIST opens as Viktor Orlov, a close friend of Gabriel Allon, is found dead in his London home by Sarah Bancroft. A former CIA operative who worked with Gabriel, Sarah is now enjoying a more quiet life managing Isherwood Fine Arts. She discovered a very rare painting in dire need of restoration, so she sold it to Orlov, a Russian billionaire philanthropist who had been living in seclusion. Sarah was to pick up a check for the restoration but arrived to find his lifeless body. Familiar with signs of a contact poison used by the Russians, she suspects that the documents on Orlov's desk had been dosed with a poisonous nerve agent. Followers of Gabriel’s daring escapades will recognize characters from prior novels, even their disguises. Part One introduces us to the cellist of the title, Isabel Brenner, who just happens to work as a professional money launderer for the world’s most corrupt bank, RhineBank AG, in Germany. Gabriel recruits Isabel as the key to a complex fraud scheme to find Orlov's murderer. The novel explores how Russia uses money as their greatest weapon. Silva expresses his belief that Vladimir Putin holds it as a weapon over his enemies: “A nuclear bomb can only be dropped once, but money can be wielded every day with no fallout and no threat of mutually assured destruction.” Russia “is rotting the institutional integrity of the West from within.” Putin is purported to be the wealthiest man in the world, richer than Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos combined. Akin to a diabolical game of chess, THE CELLIST is a sophisticated voyage through the world of concert halls, art museums, lavish receptions and the occasional chase scene --- all delivered with Silva’s crafty dry wit and innuendo. Reviewed by Roz Shea

The fatal poisoning of a Russian billionaire sends Gabriel Allon on a dangerous journey across Europe and into the orbit of a musical virtuoso who may hold the key to the truth about his friend's death. The plot Allon uncovers leads to secret channels of money and influence that go to the very heart of Western democracy and threaten the stability of the global order. The Story was enjoyable up to the point where the author adds his interpretation of what happened in the last Presidential election and the situation that took place at the Capitol building on January 6.

I was lucky enough to receive an advanced copy of this book. I've been a huge fan of Daniel Silva's and look forward to July every year, knowing that another one of his books will come out, and I'll be thoroughly entertained. One of my favorite moments when reading Daniel Silva's books is reading his author's notes at the end. Not only does it give us some background from his research for the book, but also his mindset while writing it. The Cellist brings back our hero, Gabriel Allon, who now is the head of the Israeli Intelligence Service, to investigate the assassination by poisoning of one of his closest friends, a man who saved his and his wife's lives years ago in Russia. Through Gabriel's investigation, The Cellist gives you a crash course on Russia's money laundering, the Kleptocracy, and the Russian mafia mentality. It covers the manipulation of the American elections and social media campaigns leading up to the disgraceful attack on our Capitol, on January 6th 2021. For fans of Daniel Silva and Gabriel Allon, this book will be a joy, revisiting old friends and some of the places we've been with Gabriel before; once again confirming Daniel is a master in his craft. To new readers, it’s a great adventure! It’s a privilege to enter the mind of Daniel Silva. His vast knowledge of world history and geopolitics has garnished him with the nickname “Prophet”. But most of all, you will have the pleasure and fun of entering the world of Gabriel Allon, art restorer turned Mossad agent, and all his friends. And enemies.

This is my all-time favorite book series, and Gabriel Allon one of my all time favorite characters/heroes. I wish they would do a TV series or movie -- I hope Daniel Silva has a lot of spare time to keep writing these with an even faster turnaround because almost every other series pales in comparison. I loved this book and tried to make it last longer but alas, it was finished all too soon. This outing for Gabriel, which included Covid realities, also took the strange turn near the end (around January 2021) and I appreciate the author's and Gabriel's emotion and intent. I loved the settings, all my favorites, Israel, DC, Switzerland, Paris, London ... a great ride -- and love the recurring characters that reappeared as well... you forget about these people until they show up ten books or so later... This was an exciting story and the author's notes at the end were helpful in confirming the book-long belief about the differently named bank and some of the characters. I am wondering if there are any GOP leaning Daniel Silva fans that are able to continue reading him after this particular adventure, if there were any to begin with. I enjoyed the Russia-phobia -- they earned it.

Riveting I found the characters robust, as always, and the fast paced plot engaging. What Could have been left out was the shameful actions of our previous administration. I am overwhelmed with it every day and looks to books as an escape. A gripping novel.

"The Cellist" is a magnificent book. Even if you have not read one of Daniel Silva's fantastic Gabriel Allon series, once you have read this book, you will become a lifelong devotee. Daniel Silva is one of the best writers of contemporary, prescient fiction I can name. I have been a devotee of his books since he started writing fiction. With his rare ability to read sociopolitical trends, as well as nearly predict current events, it is hard to put down one of his books while reading it. "The Cellist" is full of characters from past encounters in previous books, and Silva ensures the reader is kept informed as to whom these people are or were. Thus, even a new reader of one of his novels is able to "pick up" where he left off, or where he is going with each book. "The Cellist" is a book that subtly refers to current events with a certain Russian oligarch, "dirty" banks, the nerve toxin, Novichok, and the very real dangers involved in being a member of the Fourth estate, i.e., the Press. Although I am not finished with this book, I would urge you to purchase a copy, or borrow one from your library, as this book is exciting, real, and hard to put down. I should add that each of Silva's books have copious end notes that spell out the hard truths behind the fiction of each book. I rarely write a review for a book before I have finished it, but I can promise you that you will want to read about Gabriel Allon, Peter Marlowe, Eli Lavon, et al., and will enjoy the ride.

Until now, when the name Silva was mentioned in the cello world, it conjured thoughts of the great Luigi Silva and possibly his transcription of the “Vitali” Chaconne. That is all about to change with bestselling author Daniel Silva’s latest thriller, The Cellist. Despite having read only one other entry in the series before reading The Cellist, I did not feel my usual urge to go back and read everything in order. In fact, had it not been for family obligations and my need for sleep, I would have read it through in one sitting. With The Cellist, Silva has composed a thoughtful and thought-provoking look at the state of the world in the early 21st century, challenging readers to honestly examine the costs and consequences of the choices we make and the values we cherish. I’ll admit I was growing anxious as there was no cello in evidence until page 111! I started to wonder if perhaps “The Cellist” was a clever code name to appear later in the book. But rest assured that the titular cellist plays an essential role in helping to save democracy. Playing Bach impeccably – and saving America – is all in a day’s work for The Cellist! Read our full review here: https://cellomuseum.org/love-spy-nove...

I will never look at Steak n’ Shake the same way…… Colleen Hoover and Lisa of Troy finally meet. Alright that’s weird. I am never referring to myself in the third person again…. So what’s the scoop on Verity? In Verity, we find Lowen Ashleigh who is a down-on-her-luck author when she gets an incredible offer to finish a series by a famous author, Verity Crawford. When Lowen goes through Verity’s office, she discovers an autobiography by Verity with salacious admissions and jaw-dropping tales. What will Lowen do with the information she has discovered? This is my very first Colleen Hoover work so I will share with you my general impressions, not sure if these are hallmarks of her other books. Hoover keeps the action flowing with short paragraphs and sentences. There are no page long paragraphs here. The storytelling is top notch with gossipy revelations sprinkled throughout the book. This book is filled with steam. Steam upon steam. Steamy steam. Descriptions of steamy steam. However, please be warned that this book is incredibly, incredibly dark with some graphic depictions of child abuse. In terms of structure, Verity really reminded me of the book, Home Before Dark by Riley Sager, because it would also switch back and forth between modern day and back to an old book. The main character, Lowen, does have internal ruminations, but the author masterfully navigated these sections and did not get lost in the weeds. Verity is page-turning and reading it is certainly not a chore. There are two things that kind of bothered me, but with me, storytelling is everything. And this book had it in spades. First, the ending did not surprise me at all. Without trying to spoil anything, the ending relies on a familiar trope that I saw coming very early in the book. Second, a part of the ending did not make sense. Again, I don’t want to spoil anything, but it has to do with a certain reaction to the manuscript. Personally, if I was the editor of this book, I would have rewritten the ending, but (sadly) Colleen Hoover has not been ringing my phone off the hook. Overall, Verity is a dark, page-turning tale, and I look forward to reading more from Colleen Hoover. Highly recommended for those who are fans of May Cobb. Or try May Cobb if you enjoy Colleen Hoover. 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango

How did Colleen Hoover ever think up this dark and twisted tale? It is so unique, so completely shocking that it blows away every other suspense story I've ever read. Lowen is a struggling writer when she gets an offer too good to pass up. Jeremy, the husband of successful author Verity Crawford, hires Lowen to complete Verity's series when his injured wife is unable to do so. Once Lowen arrives at their home to start compiling notes and do research, she discovers an unfinished manuscript that looks to be Verity's autobiography. What is written in those pages will horrify and haunt anyone who reads it. So many books advertise as suspenseful thrillers, but hardly any of them cause my heart to blip even a little. (I know, I'm a stone cold reader.) But this book! There is such a deliciously creepy atmosphere that permeates throughout and it got me good. I'll admit to heart palpitations, cold clammy hands, and being startled at the smallest noises. And as the story progresses and we find out more and more, the tension ratchets up to almost unbearable levels. There was never any hope for me. I was hooked from the very first page. There is a creativity to this story that makes it hard to look away. I've never read anything like this, not even close. As a result, every page was a surprise and I just wanted to keep going. And as the truth gets darker and more tortuous, I had no choice but to hold on for the ride of my life. This book employs one of my favorite formats, a story within a story. I've loved pretty much every book I've come across that uses this format, and it works especially well here. The interspersing of the inner manuscript with the outer story allows us to find out what's going on at the same time that Lowen is figuring things out. I cannot believe this is Colleen Hoover's first thriller. Reading this feels like watching a master at their craft, setting the bar higher than I ever thought possible. This story is so astonishing and unsettling and completely original. It will stay with me for a long time. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: It Ends with Us ✧ It Starts with Us Reminders of Him Regretting You Ugly Love Layla ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

oh my fucking god. i finished this book at 4am thinking “what the fuck did this author do to me?!?” this shit was brilliant. idek how to comprehend this. like was everyone a victim or a villain?!? am i team manuscripts or letters?!? i don’t fucking know. tbh only Crew can set us free, he knows the truth. i don’t get disturbed easily but this shook me to the core. i could feel it in my bones. i don’t even know how to function and move on with my life. i’m a changed woman. you’ll be catching me blankly staring at walls lost in thought over this book

I LOVED THIS BOOK. Just posted my full booktalk on youtube (polandbananasbooks). I BLEW THROUGH IT IN TWO DAYS COULDN'T PUT IT DOWN. It's way up at the top of my coho favorites =)

** spoiler alert ** Wow! Another Flashback Saturday, and I’m rereading, reviewing (an alternate version), and discussing another brilliant—and one of my favorite—Colleen Hoover novels. And surprise: it’s a mind-blowing, WTF did I just read? kind of jaw-dropping, intense, shocking thriller. Yes, there’s the softer side of Colleen Hoover, who writes angsty love stories about the sweetest characters—and then there’s dark Colleen Hoover, who delivers heart-pounding, disturbing thrillers about not-so-sweet people. This book is absolutely a product of her darker side, aimed straight at psychological thriller lovers. Verity has three main characters: ghostwriter Lowen, grieving father and charismatic husband Jeremy, and his poor, ill wife—a phenomenal bestselling author, Verity. All of them are dealing with inner demons; flawed, exhausted, damaged people. Lowen and Jeremy meet in the middle of a tragedy. They witness a man dying on a Manhattan street—a truck hits him as he checks his phone, and his blood splatters onto Lowen’s shirt. Jeremy tries to help her, following her into a café restroom and offering his white shirt, since she’s in a rush to an important meeting with her publisher. Guess who she runs into again in the elevator, pressing the same floor? Jeremy. And not so coincidentally, they’re attending the same meeting. Lowen soon learns that her publisher wants her to finish the remaining books in a hugely popular series written by the famous Verity Crawford. And Jeremy—of course—is Verity’s husband. Sorry, Lowen—your bizarre “girl meets boy under tragic circumstances” story just took a complicated turn. Still, Lowen sees this as a huge opportunity for her career. After losing her mother to cancer, she needs something to hold onto. Meanwhile, Jeremy—who recently pulled his young daughter’s body from a lake—and his severely injured, bedridden wife create a deeply traumatized environment that Lowen steps into to complete the job. Lowen feels an immediate attraction to Jeremy—but he’s a married man, grieving. She knows she shouldn’t cross that line… right? But everything changes when she discovers Verity’s secret manuscript. In it, Verity reveals her darkest thoughts and disturbing truths—a raw, unsettling confession that makes you question just how far someone would go to become the best. I’ll stop right here—but I have to say: this book is a product of a truly brilliant mind. That WTF ending? Absolutely unforgettable. I highly, definitely recommend it. I was really hoping Layla would be a thriller like Verity, but it leaned more into paranormal romance. Still, I’m holding out hope that dark Colleen Hoover returns soon with more spine-tingling stories like this

This book was disturbing in a way that is hard to put in words. Verity is pitched as a thriller and a romantic suspense book. Well, allow me to be as candid as I can: "Verity is a mind-fuck". Is Disturbing. Twisted. Creepy. It will have you questioning things. Brutal. Haunting. There is no question, the story is hypnotizing. ENGROSSING even if alarmingly disconcerting. And the cherry on top? The ending. That probably held the most savage plot twist I have encountered in a romantic book. If this is the niche that CoHo find and stick, baby I'm yours for life! Verity is not an easy read. I am not really even sure if I can say it was an enjoyable read. But it was brilliant. Amazingly well written and unputdownable, Colleen will leave you questioning everything. By the end of the book, I hate all characters.... Thank you so much Kim for your indirect recommendation!

want to know whats even more shocking than this dark and twisted book?? its the fact that one of the most suspenseful stories i have ever read is written by my fave romance author! like, how in the world does that happen!?! my mind is absolutely blown. im usually wary of when authors try to branch out beyond their known genre of writing. i respect it, but sometimes it doesnt work out for the best. luckily, CoHo totally smashed it with this! i am beyond shocked at how creepy and thrilling this story is. its as disturbing as everyone says it is. i honestly read it one sitting - its so compulsively easy to consume. and that ending! omg. i am reeling! i had no idea that CoHo, the queen of love, has such a sinister imagination, but i am here for it! i really hope she does more psychological thrillers in the future because my brain, my body, my soul is completely overwhelmed in the best way possible. ↠ 4.5 stars

Ugh what the fuck just happened? 😟😟😟 That end!!! I can't believe it... OMG I need more, this book can't end like that... I still have questions... 😫😫😫

Check the trigger warnings on this one - especially if you’re pregnant. This is very dark & twisted but I really liked it. 5 stars but would feel weird to say I love it - after you read it, you’ll get what I mean.

Verity left me completely speechless, unsettled and unabashedly begging CoHo to write more thrillers!!! I found this story creepy, dark, addictive and absolutely unputdownable. Hoover has quite an imagination and as an avid thriller reader I was immediately drawn into the creepy world she created within the Crawford's home. "My mother used to say that houses have a soul, and if that's true, the soul of Verity Carwford's house is as dark as they come." Lowen Ashleigh is a struggling writer with no family and no place to call home. She is approached by bestselling author, Verity Crawford's husband to complete the last three books in a successful series his injured wife is unable to finish. Drawn to Jeremy Crawford and needing the financial stability this arrangement would provide Lowen agrees to complete the books and finds herself a guest in the Crawford home as she sorts through Verity's papers. "Some families are lucky enough to never experience a single tragedy. But then there are those families that see to have tragedies waiting on the back burner. What can go wrong, goes wrong. And then gets worse." The Crawford's have experienced devastating tragedy in the loss of their twin daughters. Lowen can't help but feel sympathy for the grieving Jeremy and his remaining son. Then she uncovers Verity's unfinished autobiography. Page upon page of bone-chilling, psychotic admissions. As Lowen uncovers Verity's deepest, darkest secrets things between her and Jeremy begin to intensify. But is all as it seems within the Crawford house? There were many chilling & disturbing moments here both in the present and via Verity's autobiography which we get to read select chapters of along with Lowen. I loved this foray into the romantic thriller world and certainly hope we will be seeing more of this from Hoover in the future.

Um... WOW? I LOVED this book so much. I was hooked the entire time. The plot was wild and so twisted. Huge 5 stars from me!!

4.5 Stars —- I decided to read “Verity” by Colleen Hoover after seeing it had a full 5 star rating on Amazon with almost 2000 reviews. I never heard of Colleen Hoover, and when I discovered she primarily wrote romance novels, I almost didn’t read the book. After reading a plot summary and a few of the rave reviews I decided to give it a shot. After reading this book in less than 4 days, I can tell you Hoover is the real deal. The story is told from the perspective of Lowen, a struggling author, who is offered a lucrative job offer of finishing the final two books in a series by a very successful author who had been seriously injured in a car accident. She accepts the offer and goes to the home of Verity, the author who lives there in a vegetative state with her husband Jeremy. She agrees to stay for several days in order to go through all the notes and manuscripts of Verity that she keeps at the residence. This is where the book takes off as Lowen moves from investigating the prior works of Verity to investigating the lives of Verity and Jeremy. This author does a great job of building suspense and fear into an excellent plot. I couldn’t put it down. It definitely surpassed all expectations, and I hope Hoover decides to leave her days of romance novels behind her. The only criticism of the book is that you could tell Hoover enjoys writing about sex and for a thriller there is way too much detailed descriptions that were really unnecessary to the plot. But with that said I am a huge fan and will definitely be back if she writes another suspense novel.

4.5 ⭐ for this book that is creepier than I expected! A book within a book and, like Lowen, I couldn't stop reading 𝘚𝘰 𝘉𝘦 𝘐𝘵. Even though seeing the bits of dinner that sometimes gets stuck in my son's braces doesn't turn my stomach as much as parts of this story did 😉 Thank you Bren for your fantastic review that motivated me to read this!!

2026: I reread this on Patreon in one day and I'm so glad I did. What a trip. Can't wait to see the movie. FYI the bonus chapter is so bad that I completely forgot I had read it already. Got halfway through before realizing I'd seen this play before lol. That's how much I wiped it from my memory. 2022: reading vlog: https://youtu.be/m8e8qYgpG30 My Patron's did me RIGHT! What a W I L D ride. Absolutely bonkers from page one. The first sentence had me hooked and didn't let me go even after the last page. I was gasping. I was screaming. I was genuinely freaked out by parts of this book. If anyone's wondering, I'm #teammanuscript and I won't hear any counter arguments at this time.

I haven't had a visceral reaction like this to a book in years. This was a very different style for Colleen Hoover and I devoured it last night (unplanned. I was exhausted and only planned on reading a chapter or two.) It was hard to read at times and I did not see the ending coming, which is rare for me. But, in typical Hoover style, she gives you a security blanket at the end, to help mend your heart. If you read thrillers, you should read this one. If you don't read thrillers, suck it up and read this one. If you're itching for an MM romance about a truck driver named Keath and a mailman named Raul, you should definitely read this book. If you blame Dina Silver for everything wrong in your life, we should talk.

I can't even begin to explain how good this book was. I can only say that I started reading it last night and couldn't stop until 4:00am an only because I made myself stop. Yeah, it really was that good, and even now I have finished, and it's the next day I don't feel bad about it. So here are some tips before you start reading this book: 1) Don't start reading this if you don't have time to finish it. 2) Just enjoy the read because you will never workout the plot. 3) If your not sure if you should read this book or another book read this one trust me. 📚📒📙📚📚📚📚📚📙📗📗📖📘📚📚📓📗📚📙📖📗📘📒📓📔📓📚📙📕📓📒📘📓📖 4) close your mouth, and remember to breathe, their are so many jaw dropping moments in this book, and it's all consuming. One other thing, if your like me, and you like something big to happen in the very beginning you won't disappointed. Just read this book for the second time and have made up my mind about the ending, but I'm not going to say and ruin it, so you will just have to work it out for yourself. Happy reading📚📗📙📕📚📕📘📒📖📘📓📚📒📕📙📓📘📕📔📗📙📕📒📘📚📖🤸‍♀️🤸‍♀️🤸‍♀️🤸‍♀️🙌

TITLE: Verity AUTHOR: Colleen Hoover GENRE: Romantic Thriller PUBLICATION: Get your one click on!! https://amzn.to/2PqJqqD VERITY: Is a full-length standalone romantic thriller from #1 New York Times bestselling author Colleen Hoover. MY REVIEW: can also be found on my blog: ➽ KITTY KATS CRAZY ABOUT BOOKS This is so completely left field from the types of books Colleen Hoover typically writes, the very first chapter had me sitting up straight devouring her words, loving this different side to her she’s set loose. OMGODDDD!! I don’t even know what to say or where to really begin, this for me was like a slow burn, like a creeper it snuck up on me and I found myself devouring this, the feels came at me full force like an electric shock, shocking my body back to life, the outside world ceased to exist. Going into this I didn’t know what to expect, didn’t look at reviews, and honestly I barely glanced at the blurb, but one constant nagging in the background was my need to sign up for this, my need to read this knew no bounds, I needed to get my hands on this and I’m so glad I did..This is so left field to what this author normally releases and personally I think she nailed it!! I can’t wait to see what she brings us next!! This book won't appeal to a lot of you if your hard limit is cheating. But if you can overlook that aspect then you'll love this one as much as I did.. Such a unique f#cked up story, this had my heart racing more times than I can count, I couldn't put it down, I didn't want to put it down. And then I reached the ending and I was sitting there flabbergasted, like literally no words described what I was feeling, I couldn't wrap my head around it, was it all lies? Or a coverup? Such a Profound train crash type of read, A mindf#ckery of epic proportions, twists and turns I never saw coming but loved all the whiplash they gave me. Highly recommend!!

5 Stars Colleen Hoover delivers a wonderful romance disturbing thriller that will haunt you well after you finish. How did the author of Slammed have this type of storytelling within? Colleen proved she can write pretty much anything!! PS I would love for her to try her hand at a biker story with her spin whether dark or romance.

"'Hummingbirds are the only birds that can fly backward...' ...'If I could fly backward, I would,' I said... ...And he said, as he always did, 'I know..'" This was just beautiful. I thought it was beautiful before I even got to the above quote...and then I loved it all that much more. I LOVE hummingbirds so much I have some tattooed on my body. But I digress. If you have followed me for any length of time, you will know my reading tastes have evolved and changed a lot over the last 2-3 years...Messy, nuanced family dramas have become one of my favorite things to read. And boy did this deliver on that front. In my opinion, this book exemplified showing vs. telling. Through Elle's narration, we are taken through the numerous consequential and seemingly inconsequential moments of her life that have brought her to the decision point upon which the book is premised. The moments, settings, and people who have shaped her reality. And we perhaps reflect on those moments in our own lives. How the choices and actions of our parents and grandparents impacted the present. How our own might impact the future. I just loved and appreciated everything about this book. The characters, the setting, the way Cowley unpacked everything for us across the two separate timelines. Just brilliant.

Oh my…………Some books make you feel alive! They’re literal definition of endorphins trigger lots of positive feelings into your brain! They might also trigger negative feelings but you have to toughen up for confronting them! This book truly made me thankful because I’m nerd, I’m bookish, I devour books daily and I was born to be this way! And I’m so thankful to read it! It was one of the BEST READS of the year. I’ll need few hours… maybe a day to gather my thoughts… my more detailed review will come sooner! But I wish I had a chance to give this book more than five stars! P.S: Dear Elyse, your review rocks!

"The Paper Palace" by Miranda Cowley Heller is Literary Fiction at its best! "This house, this place knows all my secrets." ~ Elle Bishop Fifty-year-old Elle is a happily married wife and mother of three with a life-changing decision to make... Last night Elle had sex for the first time with her lifelong BFF, Jonas. It happened in the dark, in the backyard while both spouses were inside The Paper Palace. Elle has always imagined marrying her childhood love, Jonas, but it never happened. She met and married Peter, her wonderful, beloved husband and Jonas met and married Gina, his beautiful, loving wife. Over the course of 24 hours, Elle will go through her life, recounting all her memories, secrets, and lies to come to her decision. Will she continue to live her happy life with Peter or choose the life she's always dreamed of with Jonas? This story is told entirely in the first person voice of Elle, teetering back and forth between the past and present. She recounts the memories of growing up with her sister, Anna, the turmoil before & after their parents' divorce, fifty summers at the Paper Palace on Cape Cod and all the seasons in between. I listened to the audiobook narrated by Nan McNamara, who's voicing skills are so perfect each character's voice truly held a different sound and quality. It was an amazing theatrical voicing performance that shouldn't be missed! This is not a beach read as Reese Witherspoon has mistaken it to be. This is an extended family drama that holds situations that will rip your insides apart! Dark moments of child abuse, neglect, incest, rape, and emotional abuse. I had no idea about the depths of this story! With that said, oh how I loved this book! So much so that I purchased a copy to add to my library. What a beautifully written debut novel that is easily one of my top reads of 2021! All the stars!

My goodness… I loved this book! Perfect to read right now too.. A family spending all their summers on Cape Cod… a family that has dealt with some devastating history. There’s so much more to this story then what the synopsis states.. so many layers ..so much that many of these characters have endured. You’ll laugh, gasp, feel enraged.. so many emotions. Perfect read for me! Oh… and just beautiful descriptions of the land and sea! Forgot to mention.. go see Elyse’s review of this book.. it sold me!!

5+ stars! 2022 Favourites List! Complex relationship dynamics. Provocative and forbidden love. Undeniable family bond. Palpable atmosphere. A central theme of this beautifully written, character-driven, slow burn novel is love. At the very core, it is a love story. A family love story. A love story with nature. A secret illicit love story. The bulk of the book explores a unique and complex family dynamic that had me consumed and engrossed within the various relationships. The author did an outstanding job pulling me into feeling extremely invested in these characters intimate lives. I simply cannot pick my favourite character or relationship as there are so many engrossing and thought provoking layers to each one. When I wasn’t reading this book, I was thinking about it. The main plot point happens before the novel even starts with the main character reminiscing about the night before. Even though I didn’t experience the event alongside the main character, I was consumed and invested immediately within the first chapter. This is a true testament of powerful writing! I am surprised by just how much I loved this love story. Love stories are generally not my thing, yet I was 100% invested and rooting for this one from the first to last page. The relationships within this book felt so real. While love is the main theme, this book is much darker than I expected. There are several heavy and uncomfortable topics that shocked and upset me but they were critical to the plot. Be warned that this isn’t an easy read and with the pace being slower, it is one you have to be ready for. The atmosphere is tangible throughout and plays a large role in the overall storyline. The plot centres around a cluster of secluded cottages near a pond and forest that hold deeply buried family secrets. The novel takes course over one day but is fleshed out with bits and pieces of the characters pasts which are slowly revealed. I loved the way the author presented the story and kept me feeling the burn of curiosity in how it would all come together. As you can see, this was a winner for me. Easily makes it on this years Favourite Shelf. I can understand the mixed reviews as this is a heavy book that the reader must be ready for and luckily it came at the perfect time for me. Highly recommend!

Be sure to visit my Favorites Shelf for the books I found most entertaining. NEW FAVORITE 💚 I always know I thoroughly enjoy a book because I have very little to say when it's time to review. This book was phenomenal. I love the back-stories of the characters—so well thought out. The ending was rather abrupt, which somewhat bothered me but not enough to lower my rating. A Must Read.

4.5 I knew early on I was going to like this book, I tried really hard to keep my excitement in check, fearing the novel's quality will go down the hill. As you can tell from my rating, it didn't. Phew. Eleanor (Elle) is the narrator of this story. She's fifty, a mother of three, married to a handsome and nice British man. Their life is pretty good. In the shadows, there are unfulfilled desires and longings between childhood friends, who are now adult friends who brought into the mix their significant others. Some people never find true love or have good, meaningful relationships. Others have the fortune, or misfortune, to be thorn between two perfectly good men. We all know by now, life is not fair. It could be argued that the place in Cape Cod is, to a certain extent, one of the main characters of this novel. Elle and her family spent every summer there. They still do. It's a place that holds meaning, a place where things happened and are still happening. There are some secrets hiding the shallows of the pond and in the sandhills of the beach nearby. I liked the structure of this novel, alternating between a day's events and then going back in time, to where the narrator's mum was younger, up to the recent days. This novel is very filmic in its nature. I would definitely watch a movie, or even better, a miniseries based on this novel. Update: re-reading it, this time listening to the audiobook, which was a pleasant experience. It's amazing how much I'd forgotten in less than a year.

4,8 stars. É uma história pesada, se pensam que vai ser o típico romance, esqueçam... Tem temas que podem ser sensíveis para alguns, violação inclusive. É a história de Elle desde o nascimento aos 50 anos. O livro divide-se em cinco partes. O final é um pouco ambíguo, não sei se pela possibilidade de um segundo ou se fica ao critério de quem o lê. A minha interpretação é que ela fica com Peter. ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ 4,8 stars. It's a heavy story, if you think it's going to be the typical romance, forget it... It has themes that can be sensitive to some, even rape. It's Elle's story from birth to 50 years old. The book is divided into five parts. The ending is a little ambiguous, I don't know if it's for the possibility of a second or if it's up to the reader. My interpretation is that it stays with Peter. ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ Adorei Jonas, super amoroso, mas as escolhas que Elle fez, não permitem que fiquem juntos. Existe demasiada bagagem para serem felizes juntos. Uma trágica história de amor. Peter é a luz e Elle não o merece. A típica história de amor, boy meets girl, mas esta não é nenhuma história típica. Elle diz que Conrad estragou tudo e tem razão, o amor entre ela e o Jonas simplesmente não é possível e quando o peso da culpa desaparece, é tarde demais para eles. Nobody dies a virgin, life fucks us all. E este é o caso do amor entre Elle e Jonas. ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ I loved Jonas, super loving, but the choices Elle made don't allow them to be together. There's too much baggage to be happy together. A tragic love story. Peter is the light and Elle doesn't deserve it. The typical love story, boy meets girl but this is no typical story. Elle says Conrad blew it and she's right, the love between her and Jonas just isn't possible and when the weight of guilt wears off, it's too late for them. Nobody dies a virgin , life fucks us all. And this is the love affair between Elle and Jonas. ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ Jonas desde os 12 anos que sabe o e quem quer, Elle nunca acreditou nesse amor e nunca lutou por ele, deixou-o sempre ir, em todas as escolhas que fez. É um amor doce, utópico... Peter é real. É uma história que, julgo, ninguém consegue ficar indiferente, lagrimazitas podem espreitar, mesmo para os de coração um pouco mais duro... O início é um pouco lento, demora cerca de umas 50 páginas para apanha o ritmo, mas depois torna-se muito difícil largar e quando termina, queremos mais, queremos saber mais... ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ Jonas has known what and who he wants since he was 12, Elle never believed in that love and never fought for it, she always let it go, in all the choices she made. It's a sweet, utopian love... Peter is real. A story that, I think, no one can remain indifferent, tears can lurk, even for those with a little harder heart... The beginning is a little slow, it takes about 50 pages to pick up the rhythm, but then it becomes very hard to let go and when it's over, we want more, we want to know more... ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════

Years ago, I wrote a review for If I Stay. In that review, I noted that there are books that linger, books that your thoughts drift towards, that consume your thoughts for hours/days after you finish reading it The Paper Palace had the same effect. It is the type of book that reminds me of why love to read. A book I burned through, only to become instantly regretful to have finished so quickly. And yet, I cannot particularly identify why I love it so. The characters are not particularly nice, or redeemable. The story is sad. The ending is open to interpretation. But the setting, and the structure of this book are rich and lively and I was left wanting more. For me, this was the perfect read.

july 25th, 2021: wow, where do i even begin with this one? definitely a new favourite, the paper palace is a character driven story with some of the most beautiful writing i've ever read. descriptive and atmospheric, this book takes you through the main charcater elle's decision between staying with her husband or leaving him for her childhood love. with the story weaving in and out of the present and the past, it is beautiful! i know that character driven stories are my favourite, but i am starting to realize that books that take you on the journey of a character's whole lifetime are also one of my favourite things, and this book did that! the characters were so well developed, they all had very distinct personalities that carried through the novel, and they each had things you loved and hated about them (which i love!). elle's mom especially, like that woman was a lot and would frustrate me in real life, but since the story weaved in and our of the present and past you got to see how she became the way she was and came to understand and empathize for her. the only thing i will note of it that i wasn't expecting this to be as heavy as it was! i didn't mind though because i love books that deal with tougher topics, but geez my heart was aching at the end! tw include grief, rape, child abuse, death and murder to name a few, so definitely look up the content warnings before reading this if those bother you! overall this is a new favourite, and if you are in any way a fan of where the crawdads sing (!!! can't stress this enough), a little life, or 28 summers, RUN don't walk to buy and read this asap!

Love this book so much! It’s a riveting family drama—one part takes place over one day on Cape Cod, the other part tracks the main protagonists history over the course of fifty years. It’s about Elle, a wife and mother, that risks her marriage by having a summer fling with her best friend and first love Jonas, and what happens after. It explores the path not taken and the terrible consequences. Love, divorce, secrets, inherited trauma, parenting - it’s all there. It’s such an amazing debut novel. Highly recommend!

I don’t know if it’s because the writing was so good and descriptive that parts of this book where really hard to read. I almost quit I’m not going to lie. But I’m so glad I didn’t. I don’t agree with some of the choices the characters made but the words where beautiful and the book gave me all emotions. At the end of the day what more could I want from a book.

Five beautiful stars for an unforgettable book. Its beautifully written, but there is also an aching haunting quality to it. You become deeply connected to the main protagonist Elle, who will not leave me for some time to come. You end up with love or compassion for every single character in the book. The family dynamics are complicated and also sometimes painful. There are hard and tough themes in there for sure. During that part of the audio, it was incredibly difficult to digest. But there is great beauty too. It's all woven and tied together. In the last third of the book, I began to think about two other experiences that are out there. Jodi Picoult's Book of Two Ways, which if you have been following me, is in my top two books of the Year! And there is such competition for my top ten, its not even funny. Paper Palace just got in there too... I figure if I can name them without looking, I know my top ten. And yet I digress. Perhaps I will try it at the end of this review just for fun. Anyway, the other experience I am thinking of, is that I have now seen just the first two episodes for CBS's Ordinary Joe. Which is great, by the way. But all three books/series, grapple with a similar question. Can you have two totally different pretty much equal love stories, at the same time, or what if your life diverged at a particular point, or moment? And at the same time, can you have two equally different love affairs with different careers, different lifestyles, and always with one's children, who remain constant? I think its interesting that this complicated theme is being tried all over the place. I am also watching the Flash with my 11 year old, and its fascinating to think about the multiverse, or really how might things be different, but always the same? And how do our experiences and choices affect us? And these three lenses, are carrying me to that place. Let me tell you friends, it sucks you in big time. I don't have more to say on the Paper Palace, so let me tell you some of the picks that are already in my top ten from memory that probably is a list of 25, that's already been cut from more. There are going to be huge contenders this year for sure. But here is what I remember. The World that We Knew - Alice Hoffman The Book of Two Ways - Jodi Picoult Rising Out of Hatred - Eli Have You Seen Luis Valez - Catherine Ryan Hyde? Anxious People - Fredrik Backman Miss Benson's Beetle Nothing to See Here - short audio that really moved me.... and now the Paper Palace I think the Rose Code is on that list, also Henna Artist, Black Swan of Paris, Exile Music... Perhaps a few more that blew me away, but the fact that I am not remembering them at this moment is telling me something. I know I will look at that list and be like "Of course!" But these are 8 standouts. Now I will be curious to read others reviews of the Paper Palace, once I've posted this one. I hope we can get a non-spoiler discussion going, even if privately. Write to me, because Elle is still with me. As are all the rest of the Paper Palace. Audio was fabulous by the way!

Recently I was sorely disappointed by the novel “The Hummingbird” which tells the story of a married man who has never been able to be with the true love of his life. I was reminded how much the structure of a novel can really impact how successfully it conveys its subject when reading Miranda Cowley Heller's emotionally-intelligent debut novel “The Paper Palace” because the central story is the same as Veroensi's but much more effective. Elle Bishop is a happily married wife and mother staying at her family's summer camp in Cape Cod. On the evening before the book's opening chapter, she finally had sex with Jonas, a man she's been in love with since she was a teenager but who she's not been able to be with for complicated reasons. We follow the fallout of this over a 24 hour period while getting the story of her difficult family life and events leading up to this disarming experience. We also come to understand the dark secret which simultaneously binds her to Jonas and keeps them physically apart. It's an absorbing and evocative story that realistically details the foibles and frailties of its characters in a way that made me fall for them and deeply care about the testing dilemmas that they face. Read my full review of The Paper Palace by Miranda Cowley Heller on LonesomeReader

Five Amazing Stars!! This is the first book that I have ever read that has left me with goosebumps at the end. I literally felt everything. I was hypnotized by the author’s writing, and this book could have been 2000 pages and it still wouldn’t have been long enough. This may be my favorite book of 2021. I say to go into this book blind, and then read the first paragraph of the author’s acknowledgments at the end of the story. Everything will fall into place so perfectly. Absolute perfection!

I truly had zero expectations when I picked up this book, having barely even read the blurb, and it has absolutely blindsided me. It is stunning. I can’t think of a single other author I’ve read that could span 50 years over a 24 hour period with such beautiful prose. The sheer detail woven into every sentence in this novel is astonishing. I loved it so, so much and this deeply moving, heartfelt and gorgeous story deserves every success. Thank you to NetGalley for the ARC. An astonishing five star read.

It is rare that I begin a review without adequate words, but The Paper Palace has stripped me bare and left me gaping. This is a story of glass; broken, repaired, but never the same. A story of longing and having, of forgetting and knowing, of succumbing and overcoming. It is harsh truth wrapped in delicate lies. It is beauty and it is bloody brilliant. 5/5 ✨ relentlessly

Well well I guess this is why you shouldn't judge a book by the first 50%..... A young man, Daniel Sutherland, has been found deceased on a houseboat. Leaving the scene of the crime is Laura, a young woman known to police. Fortunately for Daniel, there is a noisy neighbor Miriam who takes detailed records of all of the comings and goings. However, Daniel's mother, Angela, died just a few weeks before Daniel in an accident. Are these deaths connected? Was it Laura? What do we really know? This was one of my most anticipated reads of 2021 (this book as well as Survive The Night) so my hopes were HIGH. The first half of the book was extremely complicated and slow and going. There are quite a few characters to keep track of and how they are related and connected to each other. The first half of the book would have easily been rated a 2 or 3 stars, just average if not a bit overly complex. However, the last half of the book was extremely entertaining and had some twists that I was not quite expecting. At the last half of the book, it was revealed why the book was so complex. When I think back on this book, there was one character who said something that if it was not said might have changed quite a bit of the book. A Slow Fire Burning book reminds me of The Great Gatsby because it is so perfectly woven together, unexpected, but it also has characters trying to do the right thing and imperfectly loving other people. Overall, I am greatly looking forward to reading this book again. It has the complexity of The Great Gatsby - everything was set up perfectly and was surprising at the end. However, the greatness of this novel is not apparent in the first half of the book. 2024 Reading Schedule Jan Middlemarch Feb The Grapes of Wrath Mar Oliver Twist Apr Madame Bovary May A Clockwork Orange Jun Possession Jul The Folk of the Faraway Tree Collection Aug Crime and Punishment Sep Heart of Darkness Oct Moby-Dick Nov Far From the Madding Crowd Dec A Tale of Two Cities Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta

4.5 rounded up. This has been a disappointing year for thrillers, so it's nice to see one finally deliver. The first half of the book is a bit slow. There are five POV characters and there is a lot of back story to get thru, in addition to the current events. There are some time jumps between current day and past events, but it wasn't too confusing; it was pretty clear which events were "now" and what was "then." For having 5 POV characters in a 300 page book, I think Hawkins did a great job of developing the main three. The other two were less developed, but enough was done for them to serve their purpose. There were also non-POV characters with their own story, so a lot got packed into a smallish novel. My biggest complaint was probably the novel inserts for The One Who Got Away. They did what they were meant to do, but it just kind of throws off the consistency in the book and they felt out of place. Anything revealed in the inserts could have been handled the same as other characters' back stories. Some of the twists you see coming and others you suspect, but the knowing didn't feel like it took away from the story. Even when I was pretty sure I knew where it was going, there was a chance I might be wrong. All of the twists felt earned and nothing felt like it came out of left field. I liked this one a lot. It had some great characters and a good story. I'd say this is easily the best new thriller I've read this year.

What a page turner! This is a pandemic themed novel involving a young couple who live together in NYC at the time when COVID was first beginning to swamp the hospitals and there were so many deaths. Finn is a hospital resident doctor at the hospital and Diana is an art specialist at Sotheby’s. They had a previously planned trip to the Galapagos, and when the departure date comes.. Finn insists that Diana go alone since he can’t get away, as he is stuck basically 24/7 at the hospital. Diana makes it to the island just before everything is totally closed down. Even though this was a story involving COVID, it was still an enjoyable read. Shocking plot twist! Thank you to Netgalley and Random House Group-Ballantine for the ARC!

Wish You Were Here by Jodi Picoult was a very moving and timely novel. I had read some advanced reviews about what this book was about but they were not able to prepare me for how reading Wish You Were Here was going to affect me. Jodi Picoult was able to capture all the underlying fears, warnings, precautions, attitudes, compliance and non-compliance to the threat of Covid-19 as it overtook and cast its ugly face upon the world. Her extensive research was masterful. She captured the essence of the bewilderment, terror, stress, pure exhaustion and the determination to not let the virus win that the members of the health care community faced. The challenges of living in quarantine, excessive hand washing, securing time slots for food delivery, the process of wiping down and washing everything that would be touched, gathering mail and delaying its opening, mask wearing, overcrowded hospitals and the exorbitant amount of patients put on ventilators only to die were all present throughout. All those things and more was what made this book so believable. Jodi Picoult captured those moments of crisis so many of us faced and also the resilience that so many exhibited to be able to navigate their way through the pandemic. Wish You Were Here was well written and so memorable. Diana O’Toole was an almost thirty year old woman that was living her life according to her plan. She was an associate specialist at the well known and renowned Sotherby’s. Diana had high aspirations to climb the corporate ladder in the art field at Sotherby’s and secure a prominent position. Her private life was equally satisfying. Her long term boyfriend, Finn, was a surgical resident at a prominent New York hospital. Their futures were promising and together they contemplated an engagement and eventually marriage and a home in nearby Westchester County. Diana and Finn had saved for and meticulously planned a vacation to the Galapoaos Islands that would occur just before Diana’s thirty birthday. Diana even suspected that Finn would finally propose to her there and of course she would say yes. Just at that time, Covid-19 had made its way to New York City. Diana noticed how empty the streets were and how few people were out and about. As Diana traveled around the city by subway, the day before her and Finn’s vacation, she noticed how deserted the subway stations and cars were. When Diana got home, she was not prepared for what Finn was about to tell her. Finn’s role at the hospital had been redefined. All doctors, residents and medical staff were required to be available to treat the onslaught of patients that arrived at the hospital with symptoms of COVID-19. Finn would not be able to go to the Galápagos Islands but insisted that Diana go by herself. He wanted her to be out of the city and somewhere safe where she would not get the virus. Reluctantly, Diana finally gave in and traveled to Galapagos alone. As soon as Diana arrived at the airport on Galapagos, she was greeted with the information that her luggage was lost. She decided to take the ferry to Isabela where she and Finn had booked a room at one of the hotels. Just as the ferry docked, Diana was given the choice to return to the mainland. Isabela was under quarantine and almost everything was shut down. For some unknown reason, Diana decided to stay. She was about to find out that the hotel where she had a reservation was shut down. Diana had no luggage and nowhere to stay. Abuela, one of the women that cleaned the hotel took pity on her. Through hand gestures and the little bit of Spanish Diana could muster, she asked Abuela if she knew anyplace where she could stay. Abuela took Diana under her wing and offered her a place to stay. It was also almost impossible to get a message to Finn. The Wi-Fi on the island was almost nonexistent. As time passed on the island, Diana discovered its hidden treasures and beauty and was trusted with Beatriz’s secret and the special bond she formed with Gabriel. Diana began to wonder if this was the life she was meant to live rather than the one that waited for her back home in New York. In Jodi Picoult’s author’s note, she conveyed the idea where she got the idea for writing this book. “Several months into the pandemic I stumbled across an article about a Japanese man who got stranded in Machu Picchu during COVID. He was trapped there due to travel restrictions and, out of necessity, stopped being a tourist and became a resident of the community. That was Jodi Picoult’s spring board for writing Wish You Were Here. In my opinion, I believe that this was one of her best novels to date if not her absolute best one. She gathered her research by interviewing medical professionals and survivors who had been on ventilators. Even though I lived through and am still living through the consequences, precautions and challenges of COVID-19 I was reminded of how this virus has changed our life as it was once was. Having two daughters and a son-in-law in the medical field, I was extremely cautious and still am as I always worried for their safety and health and mine. I devoured Wish You Were Here. The characters were so believable and memorable. I felt like I really knew them by the end of the book. It made me smile and even shed a few tears at parts of the story. I highly recommend this book. Publication is set for November 30, 2021. Thank you to Random House Publishing Group-Ballantine for giving me the opportunity to read this advanced copy of Wish We Were Here by Jodi Picoult through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. All opinions expressed in this review are completely my own.

Review posted to blog: https://books-are-a-girls-best-friend... Cue the tears. Wish You Were Here by Jodi Picoult: A novel I thought I was prepared for.. and it kicked me in the gut anyways. In ways I never imagined possible. Covid. This novel centers around Covid and it’s as real as it gets. If this book is on your to-be-read shelf, prepare yourself...it’s gonna be a tough one. In addition, prepare yourself for the fact that it's also NOTHING like you think it’s going to be. Emotional Heartbreak. Devastation. Shock and Awe. Self-Discovery. Introspection. Love. When Covid strikes, Diana and her boyfriend Finn are preparing for a trip to the Galápagos. Finn is a physician at a hospital and given the situation, needs to stay. Not having any idea how bad it’s going to get, Finn urges Diana to go on her own, and so she does. It’s a world away. Lockdown and quarantine occur. Upon her arrival in the Galápagos, Diana is isolated, without internet and the ability to go anywhere, while Finn is facing Covid every day and trying to keep patients alive. He emails her often, and though she receives them, she is unable to reply due to spotty internet. His haunting portrayal of life, treating patients is heartbreaking and so very realistic. Tears filled my eyes and streamed down my face, knowing everything he was writing happened in real life all across the world and continues to do so. Diana, on the other hand, lives a very different life, on an island knowing hardly any Spanish, having access to very little, and meeting only a handful of people, some of whom have a major impact on her. Diana and Finn’s lives couldn’t be more different and yet each one is compelling, moving, and stirring in their own right. It is here that my heart was torn asunder in more ways than one. I have no words for it and cannot say more without giving away spoilers. Shock, Bewilderment, Heartbreak. This novel is raw, honest, heart-wrenching and so brilliantly done. Through many tears, I read this and at times felt wholly shattered and can only applaud Jodi Picoult for what she accomplished here. This was a buddy read with Ms. Kaceey and it impacted both of us greatly. Kaceey - thank you for reading this with me. Let me just say that I know how hard this was for you to read. I can’t thank you enough for everything you do each day. You are my hero. Thank you to NetGalley, Random House - Ballantine Publishing Group, and Jodi Picoult for this incredible read. Published on Goodreads, Twitter, and Instagram.

i. loved. this. book. 😭🙏🏼🖤 while i can see how it’s hard for some people to read this—especially while we are all still living in a world where the pandemic is alive and effecting all of us in some way—this book made me feel understood. not alone. helped me make sense of some of the things i’ve been feeling but didn’t know how to articulate. surprised me. made me emo. made me reflect. made me thankful 😭 i haven’t read a book by her since high school and forgot how great of a writer she is. wow😩 full review to come but i reco going in blind—just know it’s about the pandemic and it’s going to make you emotional. thank you so much to Ballantine for putting this gifted copy in my hands 🖤

“When I try to make sense of the past year, it feels to me like the world pressed pause. When we stopped moving, we noticed that the ways we have chosen to validate ourselves are lists of items or experiences we need to have, goals that are monetary or mercenary. Now, I’m wondering why those were ever even goals. We don’t need those things to feel whole. We need to wake up in the morning. We need our bodies to function. We need to enjoy a meal. We need a roof over our head. We need to surround ourselves with people we love. We need to take the wins in a much smaller way. And we need to remember this, even when we’re no longer in a pandemic.”—Jodi Picoult, March 2021 I don’t know how to write a review for this book. Diana and Finn have it all planned out, she works with Sotheby’s art auction department and he is a surgical resident at NY Presbyterian Hospital. It’s early March 2020 and they are about to go on a 2 week vacation to the Galápagos Islands. But it’s March 2020 and everything they planned changes. Finn comes home from work and let’s her know he isn’t allowed to take vacation time now, this virus is attacking Italy and France and now even Broadway is closing down. He encourages Diana to go to without him - he is going to be at work all the time and the deal they got on this vacation means it’s non-refundable. She should go and by the time she comes home in 2 weeks this will all have blown over. So Diana goes and the island is shut down just as she lands on it. She opts to stay and not take the last ferry back. You will learn of her time on island and getting to know a family that makes her their own You will read updates from Finn in the form of emails keeping her apprised of the dire situation back him in the city. You will have alternating feelings of rage at Diana for how selfish and privileged she must certainly be as well as feelings of falling in love with this remote island through her experiences. And then you will have your head explode at the twist which is thrown at you. Holy Moly! What a story! Jodi Picoult has outdone herself.

Diana’s life is going along exactly as planned. She’s certain that her boyfriend, a surgical resident, will propose to her on their trip to the Galapagos islands. Then, a strange virus hits the world. Initially, in the confusion, it seems like people are taking the virus extremely seriously when, in New York City where they live, only a few cases have been diagnosed. But when Finn tells her every doctor, nurse, and resident has to be on hand, she decides to go on the trip herself. The tickets are nonrefundable, and she can prove herself to be a risk taker. But when she gets there, what should be a paradise is something of a dystopian nightmare. It’s one thing to be on a tropical island with someone you love and access to food and ATMs and Wifi—instead she’s essentially stranded and has to rely on the good will of the residents who initially don’t like this tourist imposing herself on them. When she does manage to get internet access and receives the text/emails from Finn, it’s a fascinating perspective. When she considers that 1,300 people have died of COVID, what I literally thought was, “Oh how cute when we used to think 1,300 people TOTAL was a terrible number.” (Obviously it's a terrible number--most of us had just no idea how bad it would ultimately get.) I really thought I knew a lot about COVID, but I managed to learn some things and really enjoyed this novel. Despite the depressing subject matter, it’s ultimately uplifting. Highly recommend. Thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this book, which RELEASES NOVEMBER 30, 2021.

Well this will certainly be one of my favourites for the year! Jodi Picoult's stories leave me in awe and this was no exception. Ms. Picoult certainly does her research and is never afraid to tackle difficult controversial topics. Covid is the key topic. Art dealer Diana O'Toole has her life planned, she will marry by thirty, have her children by thirty-five, become successful, etc. Diana's boyfriend Finn Colson is a surgical resident at New York Presbyterian Hospital. Together they have a vacation planned to the Galapagos. However, on the eve of their departure Finn claims he is no longer able to go due to the rapidly spreading coronavirus and the influx of infected patients. He insists Diana go without him as they have been saving for this trip for years. She does go reluctantly and upon arriving the island shuts down and goes into quarantine. We follow Diana's experiences stranded on the island and Finn's experiences on what quickly becomes the pandemic in New York. I was fully engulfed in their story and then BAM a totally unexpected twist!!! Jodi Picoult is an outstanding storyteller!

As usual, Jodi Picoult brings readers all of the feels with her new novel, “Wish You Were Here”. In an (almost) Post-Covid world, the marks of grief and loss are still fresh, and nothing will resonate with readers more than Picoult’s newest. Diana O’Toole’s life is working out just the way she planned. She has a dream job working for Sotheby’s in New York City, a handsome and successful doctor boyfriend, and plans to travel the world while climbing the corporate ladder. When March 2020 hits, bringing the Covid virus to the world, Diana and Finn’s plans to travel to the Galapagos are put on hold when Finn has to stay behind, encouraging Diana to go on her own. Diana opts to stay in the Galapagos when the entire island shuts down, essentially stranding herself on a nearly deserted tropical island. Finn stays behind, and sends emails to Diana about the tragedy and heartbreak he is seeing every day. Diana and Finn are both feeling the isolation in very different ways but will they be able to reconnect once they are reunited? I am a life-long fan of Jodi Picoult, and there was never a question of whether or not I would read her newest book. I wasn’t sure about the subject matter on this one though (Picoult herself questioned if it was too soon for a Covid novel), but luckily, “Wish You Were Here” is so much more than that. Diana is the primary narrator of the novel, but we get to hear Finn’s tragic side of things when he sends email to Diana from the New York City hospital where he works. Although both are experiencing very different things, isolation and loneliness are shared (as they were for everyone throughout the pandemic). There is one heck of a twist in this novel, and when it hits, it brings with it not only the emotional sucker punches, but also a deep and thought-provoking message (it is Jodi Picoult after all). The imagery of loss, grief and tragedy obviously run deep in this novel but it also brings with it messages of love, hope and positivity. Beautifully written, with great characters and a plot is packed to the brim with emotion, “Wish You Were Here” will resonate with absolutely everyone.

This book will impact everyone pretty drastically one way or another. After a pivotal turning point on the book, I thought I don’t know how JP will turn this around. She lost me. Boy, was I wrong. I’m feeling very emotional about the book. What it means to have gone on this journey (one that hasn’t ended) and how it has changed us all. How it has changed me. How we forget the sacrifices that are being made every day by those on the front lines. I had decided while I was reading to give this book away, but now I can’t. I can’t give away something that has touched me so deeply. Many thanks to Random House Ballantine Books for the gifted finished and arc copies in exchange for an honest review. Review Date: 11/24/2021 Publication Date: 11/30/2021

Wish You Were Here by Jodi Picoult is the type of novel that the less I say about it the more a new reader would enjoy it. I will say though that Wish You Were Here is more a women’s fiction title with a bit of contemporary romance with a twist that hopefully readers don’t see coming. Diana O’Toole is really excited for her upcoming trip to the Galápagos thinking that it will be the perfect romantic getaway for her boyfriend, Finn, to propose. Diana’s career as an associate specialist at Sotheby’s is on track and Finn’s now a surgical resident with a ring hiding in their apartment so Diana feels like this is the time he’ll pop the question. Right before the Diana and Finn are scheduled to depart for the Galápagos Finn gets word that it’s all hands on deck at the hospital where he works. The virus that seemed liked only a news story has hit the states but Finn tells Diana she should go on with the trip. But as Diana arrives the islands shut down due to quarantine and with no luggage and no place to stay this isn’t the trip Diana had imagined. So I’m a total sucker for travel in books so when I saw a trip to Galápagos I was all in for reading Wish You Were Here. Also, being familiar already with the author I knew this was going to contain good writing and sure enough I was right there but I was totally not prepared for all the book contained and that turned out to be and even more compelling surprise that I thought. The story is one of character growth and coping with all that come in life and it was a journey I was glad I took. Definitely an author I will return to any chance I get. I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley. For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/

Jodi Picoult has written a novel that the world needs right now. I WISH YOU WERE HERE is a novel that gives a voice to those who have had Covid, have battled the front lines of Covid, and those who may be scared or not understand. I want to first thank her for not being overly political (really not political at all) and reminding me as a reader that this virus isn’t all the media hype and politcal battles surrounding it but it is a HUMAN fight. I loved how she used the theme of parallel worlds and dreams and childhood fears to close gaps in the story line. This novel which as she states in her author note was a surprise release is what I needed to read. I needed to see the POVs of doctors and those trapped on vacation or in a foreign land. Needed to feel the sorrow of those separated from loved ones - loved ones that may be fighting other diseases. And through it all that maybe this pandemic has given some the ability to “catch their breath” to re-evaluate their wants, needs, and desires. Jodi Picoult did such a great amount of research in this and her previous novel of split realities and sub conscious. I just really thank her for writing this book because it gave Covid a human quality and provided hope. What is reality what is fate. And what is the silver lining of this pandemic Please accept my full apology for my initial review. I wrote it so quickly after reading and did not mean to spoil anything. My OG review was marked to hide but it did not. I’m sorry

This is the first COVID-19 fiction I’ve read by a major novelist and it rang so true that I felt as if I were living through the early days of the virus in America. But there’s so much more to this addictive story! Near Miss Picoult had a near miss with COVID herself; all guests at the same wedding table contracted it except her. Her children and their partners later became ill, fortunately with mild symptoms. She also did in-depth research that adds authenticity to the electric narrative. Galápagos Now to the story. What if you were a nearly betrothed couple with a trip planned to Galápagos just as Covid-19 engulfs NYC? Yoko Ono Diana is an associate specialist at Sotheby’s. When she visits the home of a Yoko Ono-based character who wants to sell a fantastic Toulouse-Lautrec painting, we see it as thrillingly as she does: “I couldn’t tear my eyes from it …. The smudges of color at the edges of the frame became crisper in the middle, where the lovers were depicted. Clearest of all were their eyes, riveted on each other. Suddenly I was there, in the way that art can make you time-travel: I could imagine the painter, mixing his palette; could smell the attar of roses on the bedsheets; could hear the thumps of the prostitutes entertaining their clients in the rooms on either side.” Transported Lush descriptions such as these are the reason I read and review. Just as a master painter created this art, a masterful writer brings it to us in full glory. Oh, how I felt I was right beside her, transported as she was! Stay or Go? Diana’s vacation with partner Finn is scheduled right after this when Covid strikes. He’s a surgical resident who must stay in the city for work, and sends Diana alone on their planned vacation, thinking it would be safer away. Tropical Heaven And with the same painterly details, Picoult shows us Galápagos and the islands soon on lockdown. We feel Diana’s angst at being so alone (all businesses were closed) and her fear when she can’t get cell service to Finn. We feel her relief at finally connecting with other islanders, especially one gorgeous man, and experience her sense of being in tropical Heaven, more herself than ever. Twist! When she is whooshed back to NYC, I literally gasped. I won’t add spoilers; just know it’s a plot twist that really works. Genius I haven’t written a review this long in ages. It reflects my absolute love for this story and this writer. With nearly 30 books under her belt, she keeps getting better. How? Genius! 5 of 5 Stars Pub Date 30 Nov 2021 #WishYouWereHere #NetGalley Thanks to the author, Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine, and NetGalley for the review copy. Opinions are mine.

As usual, this was a Jodi Picoult book I loved, it what else would you expect? This one centers on Diana, who, at 29 years old, is living a steady and organized life that was going exactly as she planned it. Lo and behold, COVID hits and disrupts the vacation she had planned with her boyfriend, Finn, where she expected him to propose. Finn insists she goes anyway, as he is a doctor and will be working nonstop due to the pandemic. Diana embarks to the Galápagos Islands on her own, where she goes on an unexpected journey of self reflection and re-examining what she is looking for out of life. Reading about COVID felt too soon but was actually really interesting, as I could picture what it would be like to read this book 25 years from now and be transported back to this crazy time in our history. I found Diana herself to be well characterized- she felt human and real throughout the story. The only thing I questioned a bit was how easily she dealt with all the things that went wrong as soon as she got onto the island- I felt that someone as tightly wound as as was would’ve freaked out a lot more than she did. Minor nit, though. There’s always a twist in a Picoult book and when it comes, it was wholly unexpected and took the rest of the story to another level. There was no one in this book that I couldn’t relate to in one way or another. I’d strongly recommend this book, even if you don’t think you are ready to read about COVID- it’s an engaging and poignant story, and also brilliantly researched, as I’ve come to expect from Picoult. I always walk away not only having learned something, but being interested enough to do some follow up googling on whatever it was (art in this case). Thanks to Netgalley for offering me the opportunity to read this book in exchange for an honest review.

Wow. Please pardon the Covid-related pun, but this was simply breathtaking. I am a HUGE fan of Jodi Picoult, she is my most well read author, and I have only ever DNF'd two of her previous novels. Her ability to craft a novel around some of the most controversial topics the world has to offer continues to astound me. When I heard this was a book about Covid, I was apprehensive, expecting to read about face masks and hand washing. I couldn't have been more wrong. This review is difficult to write, purely because I doubt I can do it justice. Picoult has written a novel that is moving, powerful, and painfully brutal about living in a pandemic hand how it has changed the world. The beauty surely comes from the setting, the Galapagos islands were described so articulately, I felt as if I was there. The urge to Google never left me throughout the book, but I am fascinated by the revelations Picoult weaved through the plot. And now we come onto the plot. Gripping, tender and 'gasp out loud' moments that threw me off kilter. I loved Diana, and her story is one that will resonate with me for many months to come, of that I am certain. I adored it and the book hangover had already arrived by the time I was reading the epilogue. I have found my new favourite Jodi Picoult novel.

Wish You Were Here is a deeply moving novel with immeasurable depth about resilience, and the strength of the human spirit through crisis. Jodi Picoult tackles the COVID-19 pandemic through the eyes of her main character, Diana O’Toole, and Diana’s boyfriend, Finn, a surgical resident who’s battling the pandemic on the frontlines. Diane is stranded in the Galápagos Islands during the global lockdowns, while Finn is working 32 hour hospital shifts in the ICU losing hope of helping covid patients survive. Diana befriends a teen and her single father, and experiences firsthand, the beauty of the flora and fauna of Isabela Island and it’s people. This is where she starts to reevaluate her life. This novel, as told through Jodi Picoult’s gift of tackling hard subjects with care, is a well executed and researched depiction of the pandemic. It’s a rollercoaster ride full of emotions. This story grabbed hold of my heart and held it long after I finished. Thanks to Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine via NetGalley for kindly providing an ARC in exchange for an honest review.

I have to admit when I started this book I did not think I would be able to finish it. It is my own fault, I accepted the offer to read this one without reading a description. I saw Jodi Picoult and knew I would like it so I signed up. Part of me stands by it was too soon to read such a vivid and honest look at Covid, particularly at the early days. I know it was too soon to read about patients on ventilators. Somehow I still found myself devouring chunks of the book until I absolutely had to finish. My emotions are all over the place but it was good to get such a raw and realistic story even if it hurt to read. Diana has a plan and things are proceeding nicely as she’s pretty sure her fiancé Finn is going to propose when they are on their trip to the Galápagos Islands. Just before the trip Finn, who is a resident in a New York hospital, is told he can’t take the trip because of the Covid-19 pandemic. He tells Diana she should still go and she does, but as one can expect the island shuts down and she finds herself stuck there.

Abandoned in Death by J. D. Robb (pseudonym for Nora Roberts) brings murder, romance and suspense to a well-written futuristic police procedural set mainly in New York City. This novel has a slightly different format for this series in that it alternates timelines between the early part of the twenty-first century and June of 2061. What happens when the past and the present collide? Our protagonist, Lieutenant Eve Dallas of the NYC police department, arrives at a crime scene at a playground near friends Mavis and Leonardo’s new house. Joined by her partner, Detective Delia Peabody, they find the body of a young woman with vintage make-up, hair, and clothing and a note written in crayon saying “Bad Mommy”. With clues pointing to an older antagonist and no records of crimes with a similar MO, how will Eve, Delia, and the team solve the crime? Learning that other young women have recently vanished, they know they need to solve this case quickly. Time spent with Eve, her husband Roarke, and Eve’s colleagues is always entertaining. Eve is definitely a compelling and three-dimensional character. Her need to serve and protect comes through in every book, but the underlying impetus for this is best understood by reading this series in order. Due to the way Eve was raised, she often doesn’t understand commonly used phrases and this comes into play a few times in this book making her seem more real and less perfect. As always, the interactions between Eve and Roarke are enjoyable and bring a different facet of Eve’s personality to light. Many of the reoccurring police characters play significant roles in this book. In addition, readers also get to see a bit of their private lives. I especially enjoyed seeing the character development of intern Jamie Lingstrom. Additionally, I was delighted to see a different side of Detective Jenkinson near the end of the book. As always, Dr. Mira’s psychological profiling, Morris’ autopsy results, and Roarke’s computer skills, as well as Eve and Delia’s efforts, work against time to solve the case. The writing is fluid and flows well. The prose is suspenseful and engrossing in this intense race against the clock. A thought-provoking, stunning, deeply involved, and tragic plot gripped this reader immediately. It is appalling in places and uplifting in others. Will you guess the identity of the killer? This one was a surprise to me. As always, the interview segment near the end of the story is compelling. Seeing Eve and Delia working it together with Dr. Mira added another dimension to it. Robb manages to embed humor in her novels, providing some much needed levity to offset some of the more serious and grim aspects of the story. She brings strong characters, great plots, wonderful relationships, and excellent pacing to this series. Themes include murder, justice, and family dynamics, as well as standing up for the innocent and the dead. If you enjoy engaging near-future police procedurals with some romance and humor, then I recommend this series. This is the fifty-third book in the In Death Eve Dallas series and I have read all of them up to this point. Overall, it is entertaining, and over time, it is like spending time with old friends. I can’t wait to read the next book in the series. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own and are not biased in any way. Publication date was February 8, 2022. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine. ---------- Review coming soon.

The more I read from this series the more I love them. This mystery was one of my favorites so far, I thought it was creepy and sad and wonderful. A woman who was kidnapped was left perfectly made up with a new tattoo, piercings, and a sign that says “Bad Mommy”. Lt. Dallas is extra inspired to find this killer since he dumped the first body at the park her good friend takes her daughter to. This mystery was pretty twisty and I will admit I didn’t see the killer until pretty close to the reveal. The side characters were amazing as always and added some great depth to the story. I loved that Eve finally wanted to buy a property and why she wanted to, and I am wondering if I read the book right after this one if Roarke didn’t but it for her.

I think this gif summarize my feelings about how much I love Roarke... 🥰 I've been reading this series since 2015 and with each book I love these characters more and more... 😊 ------------------------------------------------ He rose, pointed a finger at the cat when Galahad took a very casual step toward the table. Then pulled Eve in and kissed her. “Take care of my cop.” He stood there a moment in the open doorway with the light streaming in and a gentle breeze,a warm one,playing with all that black silk hair. Stood there, she thought,all tall and lean in his perfect suit, one hand in his pocket.On her button, she realized.He carried that damn button like a magic charm.

5 stars - Futuristic/Crime/Mystery/Suspense/Thriller And we have another winner! Hard to believe it's been 54 books, and I still can't get enough of this phenomenal series and its fabulous characters! The criminal element and mystery in this installment was more intriguing than in the last few books, and the villain was a real sicko. I'd love to see the In Death books made into a TV series or movie at some point as long as they do a great job with the casting.

WOW! The #54 rocks!! It's incredible that a series can reach #54 and be as good as it was with #1!!! I think that here we returned to a more criminal part of the story with little touches of personal interactions included. And it is a very good thing because some other series lost that part and became more gushing and overly romanticized! But, thankfully, not Eve! I'm very happy!!! The story is heartbraking and horrifying at the same time. I was sorry for the villain and hated him alltogether! O_O At the same time my heart broke for the victims too... They were truly victims in every sense... As usual, the pace is fast and the reasoning behind Eve's action were true and logical. I appreciate how her mind works! Another great book! I'm so looking forward to the next! And I strongly hope that the author will continue for a very long time this series in the same way!

Ugh, now I have to wait for the next book to come out!!

Oh My God, Oh my God, Oh my God!! This book was simply amazing!! This may be one the best books in the series! I will try not to give any of the plot away because I want everyone to have the same experience I did in reading it. It's like an Agatha Christie in that when the murderer is revealed you look back on all the clues Nora dropped along the way and realize you should have come to the same conclusion Eve did sooner. The story jumps from timeline to timeline seamlessly and that just adds to the rich background. And, of course, the characters are fully developed. Unlike so many writers of serials, our main characters are allowed to also grow and develop. The Eve in this book is not the same Eve over 50 books ago. Neither is anyone else. If you have become a bit tired of the series, this book will jump start your love of all Eve and Roarke all over again.

Great characters--Dallas, Roarke, Peabody, Mavis, Feeney, McNab, Nadine, Summerset, Morris, Galahad--are like old friends. 4.5

These books bring me joy. The narrator is just fabulous and it is like visiting friends-you know, if your friends include a billionaire, a few cops, a teenage e-genius, and a reporter! Oh, and a pop star and her cute baby!

Loved this 54th novel in J.D. Robb's "In Death" series!

Love how Robb Spins a Tale I personally thought this book once of the most gut wrenching between the Before narrative and the Now. It made me care so much, for the broken Lisa. But with every Robb book it’s Eve and gang that keep bringing me back. Every time Eve gets dreamy eyed over Mr. Mira or Bella says Ork I feel like I’ve come home to visit good friends, this is why this series has sustained readers for so long. Love or hate it, to be Robb’s books are not just police procedural, they are about community and friendship.

Fifty-fourth in the In Death romantic suspense series set in our near future and revolving around a determined NYPSD detective. It’s June in 2061. My Take Abandoned in Death is running two cases: the kidnappings and the attempted suicide/murder, using third person global subjective point-of-view, as so many perspectives come into play. What is it with people denigrating their children? Where do people get the idea that nobody gets to retaliate when they start to beat them? As for someone being gay . . . so what? What skin is it off anyone’s nose? How can anyone seriously believe that someone will “choose” to be gay when our society makes it so damned difficult? It’s so cute how Peabody keeps giving Dallas social nudges. Peabody’s also great at riling Eve up, lol. Peabody and McNab’s and Mavis and Leonardo’s house is still coming along. How long is Robb gonna stretch this?? I wanna see them all move in already! Hmm, Dallas is wishing there was a law against being a complete dick. I’m with her, Stone is a dick. On the opposite end of nasty is Dowell and Associates, which sounds like a great place to work. Jim Mosebly’s past starts well and descends from there. Dang, lol, it’s handy to be married to someone who can buy up anything. Gotta laugh. Roarke is a great guy. Supportive of his wife’s career. Helps her out a lot. Generous to her coworkers. ”’You should come on ops ore often,’ Jenkinson told him. 'Yeah, he’s got nothing better to do.’" Then there’s Dr Joe Fletcher who sounds like he as a helluva good dad: He expected much of his kids because he loved them so much. It’s gotta be terrifying for M.K. Playing a role to stay alive. Planning an escape. Abandoned in Death feels more action-driven although the characters do play a part in creating the plot. Robb sets a fast pace and keeps her two storylines separate . . . until they come together. The Story A mother, driven to desperate measures, tries to "boost her baby" to heaven and suicide for herself. The only thing she really killed was her memory. Brought to life by her rescuer, she goes on to a good life and a real family until her memory block breaks. In trying to do the right thing, she sets her first child off, who "searches" for his mommy. The Characters Lieutenant Eve Dallas is in charge of Homicide at Cop Central. She’s married to the gorgeous Roarke who runs about half the world, via Roarke Industries. Summerset is their major domo. Galahad is their pudge of a cat. Dallas’ friends include . . . . . . Nadine Furst, bestselling writer, Oscar-winning screenwriter, and award-winning on-air reporter for Channel 75. Quilla is Nadine’s intern ( Concealed in Death , 38). Mavis, a universally acclaimed singer, is married to Leonardo, an equally famed fashion designer, and together they have baby Bella. Tina is the stylist whom Eve fears. Jamie Lingstrom, who seems to be aping McNab’s colorful style, is a brilliant college student whom Eve and Roarke first met in Ceremony in Death , 5. The boy is growing up! He’s interning for the summer with two days a week at NYPSD and three days with Roarke and then reversing in the next week. Dr Louise Dimatto ( Conspiracy in Death , 8) is married to the sexy Charles Monroe ( Naked in Death , 1). New York City Police and Security Department (NYPSD) Detective Delia Peabody is Dallas’ partner. Other Homicide detectives include Baxter, Jenkinson of the way-out ties, Carmichael, Santiago, the gorgeous Troy Trueheart, and Reineke. Tibble is the chief of police. Commander Jack Whitney is in charge at Cop Central. Captain Ryan Feeney runs the Electronic Detectives Division where the very colorful Detective Ian McNab, Peabody’s love, is a hotshot. Detective Callendar is another. Dr Charlotte Mira is the top profiler for the NYPSD. Dick Berenski is the chief lab tech. Harvo is the Queen of Hair and Fiber. Detective Yancy is brilliant at sketching suspects. Andrew Dawber is a forensic chemist who does good work. The Dezi also works with Berenski. Cher Reo is the assistant prosecuting attorney. Officer Steppe caught Lauren Elder’s murder. Detectives Norman and Marlboro of the 4-3 caught the missing person report. Officer Kotter responded to Kylo Grishom’s call. Officer Pinsky responds to another. Redman is with Special Victims. Lauren Elder tended bar at Arnold’s where Buddy James Wilcox works. Her cohab is Roy Mardsten who works at Delroy, Gilby, and Associates while he pursues a degree in criminal law. Lauren’s dad is a mechanic; her mother is an artist. The impressive Mary Kate “M.K.” Covino is an assistant marketing manager at Dowell and Associates (started in 2046), which Linny Dowell owns. Jim Mosebly is the Accounts manager and M.K.’s mentor. Who seems to be a co-owner along with Selma. Sly, Andi, Nat, Alistar, and Holly are coworkers. Mary Kate's younger sister, Tara, is a grad student at Carnegie Mellon. Carter, her brother, has just gotten engaged to Rhonda. Cleo Bette, a sous chef at Perfecto, is Mary Kate’s roommate and like another sister. Lulu is the puppy Gran and Pop, her maternal grandparents, gave her for her sixth birthday. Nonna is her paternal grandmother. Teegan Stone (he owns a bar, Stoner’s) is the boyfriend who ditched her. Margie is a neighbor. Ivy runs a flower shop; Zel is her grandson. Jim's mother, Adalaide Mosebly, née Rowen had been a resident/patient at Suskind Home. His father, the Reverend Elijah Mosebly, had died in 2038. Elise Grommet is the director at Suskind. Anna Hobe works at Mike’s Place, a karaoke bar owned by Mike Schotski. Bo Kurtis is a bartender there, Liza Rysman, and Bandi is a waitress. Becca Muldoon is a dancer at the Honey Pot. DeBois is another victim. Lisa McKinney was born in Alabama in 1978. Buford and Tiffany McKinney were her parents — word is that mama was a wild one. Lisa was in a car accident in 1999 with Marshall Riggs driving. Irene Jasper, married to Phillip Jasper (he’s a photographer), is Lisa’s half-sister. Harry is Lisa’s half-brother, Irene’s full brother. Lisa’s grandpa, Big Beau Boswell, was a no-good ‘un. The Reverend Horace Greenspan is a perve. Wayne Kyle Ribbet is the cause of Lisa’s first bring down. Dr Joseph Fletcher works ER and becomes chief resident of it. He lives in his grandparents’ two-hundred-year-old house, Sweetwater, in Sylvan, Louisiana. His and Violet’s children will be Joella Lynn, Chasen, and Edward. Joella is chief of surgery now. Chasen a successful writer. Edward is now a senator from Louisiana. Cecil had been the kids' pet hound in their childhood. Sherry Wazinsk, a neighbor with twins, is about to walk Pugs. Brad is her husband. Gina and Jan are another set of neighbors. Londa is browsing a store aisle with her newborn, Jonah, when she encounters Peabody. Darci works at Salon Pro where Carrie is salesperson of the month. John Church went into the foster system in 2003 in Baton Rouge. The Dubliner, a pub, is one of Roarke’s and where Mora and Jack are servers. Cami and Ken Snily bought a house, via a trust, McKinney and Son. Pepper is a missing dog. Stella is Dallas’ bitch mother, who is, thankfully, dead. Zeke is Peabody’s younger brother. Her cousin Janis doesn’t remember falling out of that tree. The Cover and Title The cover is shades of teal with the deep cracked background in the top half that cracks into the bottom graphic of a fog-shrouded playground and yellow crime scene tape crossing the gray sidewalk that passes by the wooden park bench. At the top is an info blurb in white. The author’s name in a green jade, outlined in black, is just below it. The title, in black, crosses the playground. The title is about the baby, Abandoned in Death.

Actual rating: 4.5 stars, rounded up. Abandoned in Death is the 54th installment in Nora Roberts’ In Death series, penned under the pseudonym J.D. Robb. For a while there I though that Nora might have been running out of ideas for this series and was just keeping it going for the sake of the characters, but it turns out those few weaker installments were outliers, not indicative of the new norm. This book and the two before it were all stronger in plot, while still providing a chance to visit with characters who have become so solid over the course of more than 50 novels that they nearly jump off the page when you crack the books open. In this installment, Nora plays with time and perspective more than usual for the series, which was a fun and interesting change. These elements provided not only additional insight, but more emotional investment in the outcome. While Eve always solves the case in the end, in this book I was on the edge of my seat hoping that she would do so before the other perspective in the present timeline was killed. I enjoyed the added tension in what was already a very interesting, nuanced case. Of course, my favorite element of Abandoned in Death was, as always, catching up with Eve and Roarke and Peabody and the rest. These characters feel so incredibly real to me. I’ve known them since my teen years and have loved watching them grow and change and embark on new phases of life. You would think that, after 54 books, even the best of characters would feel stale, their interactions repetitive. But that’s not the case for this series, at least for me. Just like getting to see the people who matter to me in real life always brings me joy, so does getting to catch up with these characters. And Eve’s bafflement over common idioms always makes me laugh. If you’ve never read anything by Nora and are a lover of both police procedurals and incredible character development, I urge you to pick up the first book in this series, Naked in Death. They’re truly worthwhile reads, and you’ll get a highly unconventional found family in the process.

Abandoned in Death by J.D.Robb is the 54th book in the In Death series. Eve dallas investigates the murder of a woman found in a playground with the note "bad mommy" attached to her body. A brilliant thriller where Eve races to save others especially as the crime scene is close to her friends new house which is progressing nicely. We catch up with all the usual characters which is one of the best aspects of the series, as well as the loving relationship between Eve and Roarke. Another amazing and captivating installment in this highly addictive series.

Another great read in the In Death Series! For me it even had an "I didn't see that coming"! 5 stars and 2 thumbs up!

I’ve read up to book 35 in this series and the odd one after that (I’m working my way through a full re-read) so I don’t know if I have missed anyway some slight changes in format before this one. I was surprised that Roarke didn’t show up until a full quarter of the way through and after that took quite a backseat in proceedings. There was a little bit of his technical wizardry but otherwise he felt more of a secondary character in this one. That’s not a bad thing though. I enjoyed seeing the team work as a team without too much reliance on his IT skills and also a more prominent role of Jenkinson & Reineke and some of the other crime lab staff. They may have been in quite a bit before but I’ve yet to get to that in my re-read. So that was quite a nice little change of pace & keeps the series fresh. Eve is on the hunt for someone who has killed and also abducted 2 others so it’s a race against time to find him/her before anything happens to the women. She’s also trying to track down a women from 50 years earlier with no name and only a tattoo to identify her. Yeah good luck with that. But if you’ve read the books, you know the team skills and nothing is impossible. Plenty of twists and turns as you’d expect and I think I missed a plot point somewhere so the end result took me by surprise (I’ll be extra vigilant on my re-read!). I love this series, it’s one of my favourites and this one doesn’t disappoint

A woman found murdered on a bench by a playground with a sign Bad Mommy. Dallas is working to figure out who she is and how she got there. This book has a real psychological aspect to it that is both intriguing and scary. When a second woman is murdered and left with the same sign, the team works extra hours to save the third woman who has been abducted. Lots of twists and a good story.

I enjoyed this, the 25th installment of the series featuring my all-time favorite male character in a book series more, I believe, than any of the 24 that came before it - and as far as I know, I haven't missed a single one. I'll admit I read it following a book that had so many grammatical and content errors that I can't believe it got past publishing house editors, and perhaps that did influence my appreciation of this one a bit. In any event, the contrast really underscored how wonderful it is to read a story that's well-written, engrossing and entertaining. And for sure this one is all that and more. Even though the star of the show, Gabriel Allon, no longer officially plies his trade as a well-known and successful Mossad spy, his legend continues. These days, he practices his unmatched talent as a restorer of art (not only does he "fix" damaged artwork by the old masters, he can copy their style so well that experts can't tell his painting isn't an original). As he and his beautiful wife Chiara and their twins Raphael and Irene live the good life, he's been working on the restoration of a very important one. That work gets rudely interrupted, however, with his discovery of a dead woman in the waters of the Venetian Lagoon. That, in turn, leads him inside the walls of the Vatican, where a painting thought to be a lost DaVinci - which could be worth many millions of dollars - somehow disappeared. Soon it's clear that the painting could not have gone missing without help from the inside. Since Gabriel is good friends with the Pope (he played an instrumental role in his election, in fact), the two meet up quite often. Mind you, I'm not Catholic, but I loved the late Pope Francis and the current Pope Leo XIV). Gabriel's good buddy, though, turns out to be an absolute delight - every interaction between the two brought a smile to my face (despite concern that either or both will make it out of the book alive). The rest of the story, of course, serves up details on how they plan to get the painting back, what really happened to the dead woman and who the bad guys and gals are. It's the usual suspense and action, but also to my great delight it brings together several familiar characters from previous books and puts a bit brighter spotlight on Gabriel's delightful 9-year-olds. All good things must come to an end, of course, and already I'm chomping at the bit for the next adventure. After all these years, Gabriel may be getting a little long in the tooth and tries his best to avoid the kind of dangerous cloak-and-dagger situations that earned him his stellar reputation as a spy. But he certainly hasn't lost his edge - if anything, he's just become all the more interesting.

Daniel Silva shows prowess with this latest and perhaps last, installment of the Gabriel Allon series. And it stands apart from the rest since our hero has retired from Israeli intelligence and works exclusively as an art restoration expert specializing in masterworks from the fifteenth century. We find him and his family back in Venice where he's in the process of yet another restoration. When a woman's body is found floating in a canal, we're off to the races. Silva uses a reunion of characters from past installments here; among them Luigi Donati, who was elected Pope, Sarah Bankcroft, Christopher Keller, Julian Isherwood and countless others. When its determined the deceased woman had been working at the Vatican to restore an unknown DaVinci panel, the mystery kicks into high gear. Since Allon has a personal relationship with Donati, he's summoned to the Vatican to investigate. With each chapter we learn of unscrupulous characters of which several are high ranking Vatican members. Cardinal Bertoli becomes a target having invested the Vatican's funds in real estate, and secured the loan with the unknown Leonardo as collateral; worse yet, the lender is a corrupt bank owned by the Camorra, aka Italian mob. In past installments we learned about Gabriel's ability to expertly forge works of art. However, this is an unknown DaVinci painted on a walnut panel in 1490! Since Donati is well aware of his former spy friend's ability to find culprits and solve mystery, he stands on the sidelines while the master goes to work! Complexity, unique premise and plot twists are what we expect from Mr. Silva and we experience this many times over. Additionally we receive education of Leonardo, masterpiece restoration, forging techniques and so much more. In other words, this is storytelling at its best. Put simply this is the most unique chapter in the series, yet compelling nonetheless. And at first I thought the lack of The Office team might diminish its impact but Silva manages to overcome their absence in spades. As always, I feel revealing plot points and twists spoil reader experience. That said, fans of masterpiece artworks, intrigue and mystery will enjoy this from start to finish.

I have always looked forward to each book in this series, but this was a very rewarding book to read in so many ways. Since I was up all night reading I see my vision is off and I need to circle back to fill in the fifth star. Just the very best book of this wonderful series! Library Loan

This is the latest book from Daniel Silva that is impossible to put down. Protagonist Gabriel Allon, former head of Mossad, is now totally untethered from his former profession. He is now living in Venice with his wife and children and immersed in his other occupation as a master art restorer. Because Gabriel still sees and remembers things others don’t, and makes mental connections others miss, he gets involved in situations and can’t and won’t let go until he gets to the bottom of things and sees justice done as best he can. So begins this adventure. As often happens, this one starts with a murder, followed by another related murder. Both have to do with the discovery and theft of a newly discovered painting by Leonardo da Vinci. Following the thread of the story leads us from law enforcement in Italy and France, to various art experts in multiple countries, to organized crime, and to the inner workings of The Vatican. What a ride! I totally enjoyed this book and highly recommend it for anyone who likes stories of international intrigue. A great read!

A woman is murdered. Art restorer Gabriel Allon thinks it is connected to a previously unknown work of art by Da Vinci. The book revolves around this main storyline. Reading Silva is like watching a good movie-his word portraits are that detailed and descriptive. Without giving away some of the plot, this is all I'm prepared to divulge about the book. If you are reading the series, you should definitely give this book a go. A worthy effort and well worth the time spent reading it.

I have read all of Daniel Silvia’s books. His main character is Gabriel Allon. I liked the book. I finished it in 3 days. It is fast paced. The only problem I have are all the Italian words!!!

I seem to have enjoyed this novel much more than many other readers. I was comfortable with the slower pace. Gabriel is older after all & no longer with the Mossad. I was tickled by the fact that Chiara is president of the Restoration company and very involved with the effort to solve the murders. I thoroughly enjoyed how the old London art dealers were brought into the story! I loved that Gabriel is now teaching art classes to kids & curious about his son’s resistance. I’m all in with Gabriel’s escapades, even if they are more a head game than a deadly chase!

Love, love, loved this book! As usual, masterful story and writing, great characters, exciting settings. Now add the greatest new art find in history, a perfect forgery, and glamorous thief. Throw in a friendship with the newest Pope and an internal scandal only Gabriel Allon can unravel.

Book Review An Inside Job Daniel Silva reviewed by Lou Jacobs readersremains.com | Goodreads Daniel Silva superbly reprises the twenty-fifth adventure of the iconic Israeli intelligence officer and sometime assassin, Gabriel Allon. His cover story has always involved his supreme talent as an art restorer, a trade he now plies full-time in his beloved Venice. He resides there with his beautiful wife, Chiara, and their adored twins, Raphael and Irene. Gabriel has been tenaciously working to restore Titian’s The Descent of the Holy Spirit to its natural beauty. During a coffee break while strolling along the Venetian Lagoon, he notices the body of a young woman floating face down. The Italian police are unable to identify her and request Gabriel’s help in creating a forensic sketch of her face based on her skull X-rays and disfigured features. The murdered woman is soon identified as an American, Penelope Radcliff, who recently completed her art conservator apprenticeship at the Vatican Museum. Gabriel immediately suspects a connection between her murder and her recent studies at the Vatican. The pope, His Holiness Luigi Donati, and Gabriel share a deep and trusted friendship forged through Gabriel’s help in several previous sensitive matters. Gabriel is granted permission to initiate a discreet investigation, which soon reveals that an unreported painting is missing from the Vatican storerooms. He surmises this occurred during a suspicious blackout, coinciding with a visit from a mysterious “priest.” Penelope had reported to her superiors that she suspected a prestigious painting was buried beneath a lackluster Madonna and Child, likely the work of a Raphael imitator. She believed it was a “lost” Leonardo da Vinci. Giorgio Montefiore, a “Leonardo” expert, assessed the painting and cast doubt on its provenance—though he privately suspected it was the real thing. His greed set in motion a criminal conspiracy that led to the murder of not only Penelope but also Montefiore. Caught in this web of deceit is the nefarious Cardinal Matteo Bertoli, the sostituto responsible for the Vatican’s financial affairs, and his corrupt dealings with illicit bankers and financiers. All paths ultimately lead to the notorious criminal organization known as the Camorra and its Swiss banking arm, which launders vast sums of money. Gabriel must construct a complex plan with multiple moving parts to recover the painting before it is sold and lost forever. This endeavor calls for the help of many of his beloved associates, who admirably reprise their roles in this intricate plot. Daniel Silva proves once again to be a masterful storyteller as he weaves multiple plotlines together with escalating tension and intrigue. He explores, with no holds barred, the often-corrupt financial dealings of the Vatican and the dark underbelly of the art world. The FBI has documented that 90 percent of all museum heists involve an inside component. This fictional account evokes memories of real historical scandals—such as that of Cardinal Giovanni Becciu, who was convicted of embezzlement and fraud in 2023. Silva’s denouement explodes with a barrage of bullets that endanger multiple key players in St. Peter’s Square. He remains a master of international intrigue and suspense. Thanks to HarperCollins Publishers for providing an advance copy of this gem in exchange for an honest review. Already looking forward to his twenty-sixth novel .... Published at MysteryAndSuspenseMagazine.com....

I had given up on Daniel Silva and this series several years ago but gave it one more chance and have been rewarded with excellent books, especially the last three in the series. If you are not familiar with the series, you need to go back to the beginning though he does a nice job in this book reintroducing the various characters giving you enough of their backstory to make it tolerable in this latest scenario and mission. It makes me wonder though if we are coming to the end since he brought in so many of these people that have been an intricate part of his many novels in the past. This one certainly took advantage of their diverse personalities, skills and backgrounds corralling them back together again for the ultimate suspense thriller that was definitely an inside job. Enjoyed it thoroughly and if there are more to come, I will be reading.

Daniel Silva once again reminds readers why he’s one of the most gifted novelists of our time with his latest must-read thriller, The Order. It was supposed to be a vacation. A badly needed, week-long trip to relax and recharge. And after years of dedicated service that has no doubt taken a major toll on him and his family, nobody needed it more than Gabriel Allon, the master art restorer turned Israeli assassin who’s now halfway into his first term as chief of the Office. However, just one day into his holiday—a covert trip to Venice with his family, arranged by his wife, Chiara—an old friend urgently requests Gabriel’s help. Pope Paul VII has died. News reports suggest the leader of the Catholic church passed away from a massive heart attack that occurred while he was praying in his favorite chapel. But Archbishop Luigi Donati, the Holy Father’s loyal private secretary, suspects there might just be more to the story than anyone else is letting on, and in order to find out for sure, he sends for Gabriel Allon. Though it turns out that Pope Paul VII did indeed suffer from heart disease, making a fatal heart attack possible (if not probable), Donati offers Gabriel several other tidbits that were not reported by the media. For starters, Donati explains that the Holy Father passed away on the one night that he was absent from the Pope’s side each week. Likewise, other oddities arise too: like a missing member of the Swiss Guard who had stood post outside the papal apartments that night, and a letter that Pope Paul VII had been writing just before his death, intended for Gabriel himself, which has since gone missing. But the real mystery, however, surrounds the Holy Father’s reasons for visiting . . . Continue reading this review here: https://therealbookspy.com/2020/07/05...

Another outstanding piece of literature I am a huge fan of Daniel Silva and The Order was another masterpiece. I found it suspenseful, historically accurate where it should be and a wonderful touch of fiction also where necessary to move the plot forward. I felt it a timely piece to address the issues no one wants to talk about in public. Read it, enjoy it, treasure the talented man who penned this.

The Pope has died. While he was indeed ailing his private secretary, Gabriel’s longtime friend, Archbishop Luigi Donati, suspects the Pope did not die of natural causes and contacts Gabriel for assistance in finding the truth. As clues unfold it becomes urgent that the truth be uncovered and exposed before the next Conclave begins to select a new Pope. Now, I could probably tell you more, but that would be sharing spoilers, and that is not my thing…so if you are ready for another tantalizing page-turner, maybe this one is for you. Each novel can be read as a stand-alone but it is so much more entertaining if the reader has read previous Allon books.

As a frequent reviewer of soon-to-be released books, mostly from authors I've never heard of before, I'm always amazed at how good they are. It's rare, in fact, for me to give less than four stars out of the maximum five. Here and there, though, I try to work in something from a favorite author, usually one from a favorite series - like this one. And it is then that I realized the difference between good and, well, as perfect as a book can get. The writing is superb as always, and it doesn't hurt that it features Israeli spy and art restorer Gabriel Allon, who's held the No. 1 spot on my all-time book "hero" list ever since he was written into existence. It starts off with a shocker: The Pope, a good friend of Gabriel, is found dead. The official line is that he died of natural causes, but another of Gabriel's long-time friends, an archbishop and personal secretary to the Pope, thinks otherwise and asks Gabriel to meet him in Rome to discuss the matter. Among the topics is a not-so-secret organization called the Order of St. Helena, which is comprised of ultra-conservative Catholics, including some who live and work as Vatican higher-ups. Also on the agenda is the presumed existence of a priceless historical book - one that could hold the power to bring the Catholic church to its knees. Needless to say, Gabriel is intrigued; despite his beautiful and talented wife Chiara's misgivings about his giving up hard-earned vacation time, he agrees to at least look into things. Of course, nothing is ever as easy as it seems. Before long, Gabriel is up to his unusually green eyes in a dangerous endeavor, for which he asks for help from the crew from his Israeli agency (always happy to see their appearance together with more-than-usual involvement from Chiara). The action part seems a little slower and, to a degree, less physically dangerous than usual, but then let's face it: after 19 other books, Gabriel isn't exactly a spring chicken anymore and has the good sense to avoid potentially life-threatening confrontations when possible. Be advised, too, that the story has a political bent; if you believe the current U.S. leadership represents the Second Coming, or believe every word in the Bible is sacred truth that must be interpreted literally, you may take issue with parts of this book. Neither is an issue for me - and few topics intrigue me more than the history of Judaism and Christianity. Only hunger (my husband's, not mine) that forced me into the kitchen kept me from polishing off this one off nonstop. The ending brings a bit of a surprise, plus a few hints about what the future might hold for Gabriel, Chiara and their young twins. I'm already chomping at the bit for the next one so I can find out how all that plays out.

I received a complimentary copy of The Order with the understanding that I would review it honestly and honestly and without too many spoilers is what I promise. The Pope dies. That is not a spoiler! That is the reason for everything else that transpires. Conveniently Gabriel Allon is on a much needed vacation from The Office in Venice which was covertly planned by his beautiful wife Chiara. The plan and we all know about the best laid plans is for him to spend time relaxing, restoring famous masters and enjoying his family in the city he loves. But he's in Italy at the same time the Pope whom he also loves, and saved from terrorists, dies. Or was he murdered? And Why? And that's where those best laid plans go awry or shall we say flushed. There transpires the usual cloak and dagger and Gabriel being pulled into an investigation that he tries to avoid. This time his wife is there with him. And since she's a former Office trained agent and watcher who also has a history degree and knows how to use a gun so who better to help. Of course they can't do this alone and with the help of the Pope's trusted Secretary Luigi Donati and the usual cast and characters of Rome and The Office he is able to track down the truth about the death or was it murder? Instead of the politics of Washington, Russia and the UK (and believe me that's a relief because we can always catch up with that on CNN and that world famous journalist) this is about the politics of The Holy Catholic Church which has a 2000 year history of politics and cover-ups and murders to uncover dating back to the first murder; i.e. Jesus Christ. And The Holy Mother Church and all the right wing Popes who will do anything to ensure that they continue in power and that another upstart like The Accidental Pope does not assume the Papacy. They, of course, have powerful political pawns in other European countries who are depending on them to right the ship, no pun intended there, and to keep it 'right'. Germany, Italy, France all have politicians who play into this and there's money involved. Big money of course and the people who believe that the right must prevail and religion be damned; they will do anything to ensure that they take the Papacy through bribery and ensure that the countries of Europe return to the policies of their idol; Adolf Hitler. Neo-Nazism never dies; it just hides. As we used to say in the US in 1970's 'power corrupts; absolutely power corrupts absolutely'. Of course, there is a book to find. A lost gospel so to speak that the Right has to keep hidden because it would show them for the power hungry, right wing anti-Semites that they are. They've managed with the help of The Order to keep it hidden until The Accidental Pope discovers it with the help of someone like me who has a foot in both Catholicism and Judaism. Because I grew up hearing the stories of Italy and Facism and corruption of the Church and knowing that sometimes Jews hid in plain sight, this story made so much sense to me. It was logical as well as thrilling. Find the book, find the true story of that first murder and you have a chance to end the hatred and right the wrongs of history. Silva does that while keeping you on the edge of your seat. If you've never read any of the series you can still read The Order; there are enough references to the backgrounds of all the players without getting bogged down in minutiae and boring long time readers. Personally, I'm fond of the Easter Eggs that he drops in there. The 'famous journalist', the names of people the author loves (Nicholas in one form or another because that's his son's name). My favorite writing tool the author uses is repetition of phrases. They are always meaningful, well placed and definitely never overdone. In addition to finding the lost book (gospel?) and the murderer? Gabriel Allon, who at heart is a yenta and a restorer of souls as well as Old Masters finds a way into a love triangle and a way to restore at least one soul to its rightful place. Not everyone gets to be a Pope. This one is my absolute favorite in the Gabriel Allon series.

Daniel Silva continues to earn his title as "master of the genre". Once again, Silva manages to weave engaging story lines with philosophical discussion about incredibly complex and nuanced topics, all the while challenging our notions of what we think about a range of subject matter. As we follow Gabriel and Donati (a personal favorite) through some of my (and Gabriel's) favorite cities, they unravel mysteries pertaining to both ancient and not so distant history, in an attempt to fend off an internal attack at the very heart of Catholicism. The political game of chess both within and without the church is riveting. Silva also brings his almost professorial style to the novel as he delves into the possible root of antisemitism and the philosophical battles The Church and it's followers must face. Do we hold to the interpretations of traditional doctrines or evolve our beliefs to fit the modern world? As a bit of icing on the cake, we are also able to catch a glimpse into a possible future for Gabriel and his wonderful family once his term at the helm of The Office is over. The return to a previous career/hobby has me anxiously waiting for the next installment. It is an exciting time in the Allon universe and I can't wait to see what my favorite author has in store for us.

The waiting, always the waiting. – That is something every fan of Daniel Silva can relate to. As always, it has been worth it. One cannot simply put the book down, trust me, I've tried and ended up reading till the end until 3:30am. Daniel Silva knows how to write a book packed with history interspersed by twisting turns and nerve wrecking moments. There is never a dull moment only interlude before something that will stop you in your tracks and makes you think. The moment you open the book, you're transported to Gabriel Allon’s world. It truly feels like you're standing by his side trying to find out if the Pope was really murdered while staying ahead of the Order of St. Helena and its members plotting against Gabriel and trying to prevent him accomplishing his mission. Conclave has to begin so Gabriel has limited time. But then again, when he doesn't? There is a reason his old team’s name is Barak after all. To think at the beginning Chiara had a daring idea to pack the entire family, indulging Gabriel and take them for much needed holidays. Who would have guessed it won't work out, right?

I am only sad that I have to wait another year to go on an adventure with Gabriel Allon and friends. The Order was interesting, exciting, and timely. I started reading the Gabriel Allon series while I writing my dissertation - everytime I felt I needed or deserved a break from writing I would read another installment. I gobbled up those books (and yes, I did finish the dissertation). Gabriel, Chiara, and the twins go to Venice to visit Chiara's parents. While there, the Pope, an old friend of Gabriel's dies and his personal secretary enlists Gabriel's help in finding out what happened. Silva weaves a credible and interesting tale that touches upon tension in the Roman Catholic church between the conservative and liberal factions, immigration of refugees into Europe, and the rise of populist leaders. A pandemic is also mentioned. I completely and thoroughly enjoyed this book.

In my top three of favorite authors is DANIEL SILVA who has written 20 books featuring Israeli spymaster Gabriel Allon. I have read most of them (so many books, so little time!). The latest installment is entitled THE ORDER. In addition to being the head of The Office, Israel’s spy department called the Mossad (think The Company, C.I.A.), Allon is a world famous Renaissance art restorer. The story begins when ex-Company operative Chiara (Allon’s wife) plans a real vacation for the family in Venice, Italy where she was born and where her parents still live. Chiara is also planning a surprise for Gabriel. After only a couple of days of vacation, his very good friend Archbishop Luigi Donati, private secretary to Pope Paul VII, calls Allon to Rome. The reason, the Pope has died and Donati is sure it was murder. This leads Allon and friends on a quest for a mysterious book that Pope Paul VII wanted to give Allon. The book is “The Gospel of Pontius Pilate” that could bring down the whole Catholic Church. The opposition force is the Order of Saint Helena established in the 1920s by Bishop Ulrich Schiller a follower and supporter of Adolph Hitler. The Order is trying to orchestrate the election of a successor to Pope Paul VII at the election Enclave. The current opposition leaders in the Vatican are Bishop Hans Richter and Father Markus Graf. Another key person is German Jonas Wolf owner of the multibillion-dollar (euro) empire called The Wolf Group that funds the Order. Another leader who opposes Allon is Cardinal Domenico Albanese who is also The Camerlengo, in charge of defending the empty papal throne. In addition to the the Pope’s demise, The Order is also responsible for the disappearance of Swiss Guard Niklaus Janson who was stationed outside the Pope’s apartment the night he died. His Swiss girlfriend has information for Allon and his team. It is contained in a letter from Pope Paul VII addressed to Allon and missing from the Pope’s office after his death. As in many of his previous books, DANIEL SILVA provides the historical background to the story. That is part of what endears these Allon stories to me. The reader will learn a little about real history while consuming Silva’s books. The book is perfect for readers of history, spy thrillers, mysteries and good literature. If you are religious (Jewish, Christian, Islam) be prepared to have your emotions stirred. EXTREMLY RECOMMENDED. GO! BUY! READ!

Freida did it again! I was dying to know what happens next. Just when I thought I had it figured out, I didn’t. Loved it!

Thank you to Poisoned Pen Press/ Sourcebooks for a physical ARC of this highly anticipated release in exchange for my honest thoughts. As someone who has read all of her books, I’d say I have a pretty good grasp of her writing style and this one truly felt like one of her best. I read this in one sitting and absolutely loved it. Content warnings include but are not limited to: Stalking, an emotionally and physically abusive father/husband, inappropriate remarks about underage girls, graphic murder, gaslighting, manipulation, domestic abuse, murder of high school aged kids, murder of adults Further thoughts: https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZTN9xLqMD/ Top 24 of 2024: https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZT2gBTSQh/

that plot twist?!

This plot twist came hurtling toward me so fast and I DID NOT see it coming omg. This was so fun it really lulled me into a false sense of security because I thought I had it all sussed out but no Freida strikes again! Loved this one

Holy moly what have I just read?? Frieda McFadden has written one of the most creepy sadistic novels of hers that I have ever read, I cringed in certain parts I loved this book though. The characters were well fleshed out & Tom sent chills through my body. The narration by Victoria Connolly & Robb Moreira was exceptional they both kept you in the zone. Tom has stupidly been in love with Daisy spice he was 4 years old years later they both are at the same university Tom wants to be a doctor, now Daisy is dating Kevin who she met on a dating app called sinch & Tom is dating Sydney who has Van Willerbran disease which means she bleeds more just with a simple cut but Tom has thoughts of cutting into Sydney which he can’t stop thinking about even though he loves her. Sydney’s best friend Bonnie is murdered 3fingers cut off one hand is mutilated this sends shivers through Sydney who would have done this? Another body turns up dead the same MO so it’s just not a once off someone is a serial Killer killing the kids the police think, it turns out Tom is their main suspect? This was a chilling book that kept me entertained right the way through it was chilling dialogue I was left gasping in the end Freida has written a wonderful Thriller that I was thinking about long after I had finished it.

OMG I THOUGHT I HAD THIS ONE!!!! WOW, blown away.. I'm obsessed. Please read this one.

This was a cracking read from Freida! This has all the features of a great thriller- the characters, the dark storyline, the gripping plot, and all the twists. But this one felt different to me. I actually felt really stressed and worried for the characters through the entire book. Both timelines were equally packed with tension so there was no let up for the readers. I couldn't read quick enough. This is sure to be another bestseller.

For a full spoiler version of this review, please check out my blog, spoiledbooks.blogspot.com (Link fixed!) ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 5 out of 5 stars The Boyfriend was such a fun surprise — twisty, funny, and wildly entertaining. 😂🔪 This is one of those books I flew through because I had to know what was really going on. The story nails the chaos of modern dating, especially the awkwardness and low-key terror of online apps. I genuinely laughed out loud more than once, which isn’t something I expect from a thriller — but Freida pulls it off. What really sold this for me was the ending. I thought I had it figured out. I absolutely did not. The final reveal was clever, unexpected, and instantly made me rethink everything that came before it. 👀 Is every motive perfectly airtight if you overanalyze it? Maybe not. But the pacing, humor, and sheer readability made this a total win for me. If you like fast-paced thrillers, dark humor, and twists that smack you out of nowhere, this one is an easy recommendation. One of my favorite McFadden reads — pure binge material. 🔥📖 Check out my review on Dear Debbie Check out my review on The Housemaid Check out my review on The Housemaid’s Secret Check out my review on Never Lie Check out my review on The Inmate Check out my review on The Teacher Check out my review on Ward D Check out my review on The Locked Door Check out my review on The Tenant Check out my review on The Coworker Check out my review on The Crash Check out my review on The Perfect Son Check out my review on One by One Check out my review on The Intruder Check out my review on The Widow's Husband's Secret Lie Check out my review on Suicide Med Check out my review on The Psyching

This might be my new favorite Freida book!! ONCE AGAIN I was send in the wrong direction… JAW ON THE GROUND!! 😱😱 This was so good, I ate it up!!

my jaw is still on the floor. the entire story line is phenomenal. the change in time line AMAZING!!! the mystery, drama, suspense, and romance… i love it all. there was so much going on but the way it all ended was insane. i’m forever obsessed with Freida and all her books wow wow wow. i fear i need a book 2, there’s just got to be more!!!

Author Freida McFadden explores the potentially dangerous pitfalls of online dating through the eyes of women of a certain age who have suffered one too many disastrous dates while looking for Mr. Perfect in her latest book, THE BOYFRIEND. Wasting no time, McFadden sets a chilling, ominous tone in the Prologue - a clear forewarning of the danger lurking at every turn, on every page, in her latest psychological thriller. Sydney Shaw is knocking hard on the door of thirty-five, her biological clock ticking loudly, counting down the days with no viable lifetime partner possibilities on the horizon. Her latest obnoxious online date is yet another disaster, and she can't wait to cut the tortuous evening short. When he refuses to accept an emphatic no to walking her home, Sydney follows her gut taking him down the wrong street to "her house" where he suddenly turns from annoying to violent. Having seen no one in the surrounding area, Sydney is surprised but relieved when a dark, handsome stranger sends her attacker scurrying, but before she can get his name, he melts back into the shadows from whence he came. In the weeks to come, Sydney becomes obsessed with finding the dark-haired stranger until finally he's there - her hero seducing her with his good looks, charming smile and hypnotic words. Sydney's convinced this man may be the one even though some of the things he's telling her doesn't add up. Has her luck finally changed? Or is his perfection a mask? Meantime, police are investigating a string of unsolved murders believed to have been committed by an unknown man the women connected with through online dating. When tragedy hits close to home, Sydney's suspicions run rampant as she begins questioning the small inconsistencies in her new boyfriend's story. Has Sydney found the perfect man . . . or the perfect killer? THE BOYFRIEND is an intense, immersive thriller that is rendered through dual timelines and alternating points of view which are highly effective in allowing readers to learn firsthand how certain players got to the current point in the story. McFadden brilliantly maneuvers characters and readers through a complex plot line that keeps shifting and twisting at an ever-increasing pace before finally dropping a last minute, shocking bombshell that left this reader reeling. The author's ability to misdirect readers with several vexing red herrings raises the stakes, leaving them guessing. Authentic characterizations make it easy to feel empathy for some while making it difficult to discover who's being truthful and who's manipulative, carefully hidden beneath a mask. A suffocating air of malice thickens page by page, leaving little doubt danger is nigh. Author Freida McFadden gifts readers with another gripping, page turner thriller in THE BOYFRIEND. In doing so, she shines a spotlight on the danger of online dating and the real possibility of evil lurking behind carefully constructed facades. Themes of obsession, stalking, loneliness, seduction, and the suggestive public's perception of women, especially of a certain age, are explored. Fans of this author's work are sure to love this one! Also highly recommended to fans of twisted psychological thrillers with last page shockers. Special thanks to Poisoned Pen Press and Author Freida McFadden for an arc of this title scheduled for release on Oct. 1, 2024. Opinions expressed are my own. This review first published in Mystery & Suspense Magazine and is also available on my blog Cross My Heart Reviews.

I basically read this cover to cover in one sitting and could not put it down - I loved every page. Everything I suspected and guessed was, of course, wrong and that’s one of the things I love most about Freida’s books - you always think you’ve figured it out and then you’re completely wrong! Thank you to Sourcebooks for an advanced copy. All opinions are my own.

The farmer Colby finally takes a vacation after a long time and meets the young singer Morgan. Sparks fly immediately and through the music, they get closer and closer. A love story begins. On the other side, is Beverly, who flees with her son from her dangerous husband, but is this really the truth? or is there not something else behind the story of Beverly. Once again Nicholas Sparks managed to write a wonderful novel. He grabbed me from the first second and at the turn, I was stunned. It describes a struggle for the love of family and a mental illness.

I just finished reading Dreamland by Nicholas Sparks and what a ride it was. Here is my review.. Colby wasn’t looking to meet anyone when he took on a gig in Florida for 3 weeks, away from his aunt and sister and the farm they all run together but fate had other plans the day he clapped eyes on the beautiful Morgan Lee. With their shared love of music and the beautiful songs they have been writing together, the 2 embark on a whirlwind that leaves them both breathless and wondering if they make this work when they are both heading in different directions but as they work out their love for each other, Beverly is on the run with her son…. Running from a man so dangerous she fears she won’t make it out alive if he finds them…. This book took me on a tailspin of a ride that I didn’t want to get off of. Right in the brilliant way the author always executes his books, you will be left feeling windsweep and satisfied. You will fall in love with Colby right from the beginning. The way he fought to figure out who he was and then came to become the man to bring their farm from the brink of ruin and take care of his sister Paige and his Aunt. His story is so tragic you will want to fold him up in a blanket and tell him it will all be ok. Morgan I had reservations about but like me, you will come to love her quirky and sweet personality and you will see why they fell so deeply in love. Beverly's story will tear you apart inside and the twist at the end will have you in so much shock and awe that you may need a few minutes to recover, or if you are like me, the rest of the night. I don’t want to spoil the book for you so I won’t say too much but if you see the ending coming, I will eat my hat! I found the whole read to be well paced, expertly written and up to the standards we have come to know and love from the author. One of the best ones yet for me! If you love a great love story with a whirlwind of a twisted ending, this is the book for you! 5 stars!! Thank you to netgalley and random house publishing group for my review copy in exchange for my honest opinions.

Wow 😱 Wow DO NOT READ the BOOK DESCRIPTION!! Just ENJOY the story. I picked up this book on its publication day. I didn’t read the blurb as to what it was about. I was confused at first & it had lots of reminiscent hints from Safe Haven in some parts. But then…💥 BAM 💥 It’s one of the most uniquely crafted stories I’ve read in a long, long time. It’s a love story, of almost every relationship in our lives. In the end… I cried 😢… the way Nicholas Sparks always makes me cry with the aching heart full of love.

I've enjoyed Sparks' releases, they're emotional and thought-provoking while making you truly feel you're within the setting with the characters. Even so, nothing prepared me for how much I Loved this book - with a fresh and all-consuming premise, it's two stories in one - which perfectly collided in a stunning jaw-dropping way. With wanting each reader to have their own wowza experience, I don't want to say anymore - just preorder this book today! Galley borrowed from the publisher.

Amazing I guess I can admit that I am a massive Nicholas sparks fan. He has such a wonderful of weaving a novel. In this case, where a one story intertwines with another. I love it, and I recommend it to everyone.

After the death his uncle, Colby Mills returns to the family farm to help his aunt with the farm’s upkeep. Now, he is comfortable in his life as a farmer, and does not regret leaving the life he could have had behind. Until of course, he meets Morgan Lee, a music student who has big dreams that will see her on the road to Nashville. Colby put his musical dreams on the back burner when he took over the farm, but his love of performing is just one of the many feelings that are kindled in Colby after he meets Morgan. While Colby and Morgan’s romance is developing, a young woman named Beverly is on the run with her six year old son, Tommie, desperately trying to outrun her abusive husband, Gary. Although she is sure she took every precaution she could, Beverly sees trouble over every bend, and is always looking over her shoulder for danger. Can she keep Tommie safe when all she sees is chaos and fear? Nicholas Sparks’ new novel, “Dreamland”, is reminiscent of both “Dear John” and “Safe Haven” (both Sparks’ novels I thoroughly enjoyed), however it is also entirely unique in its own right. In true Sparks fashion, Colby and Morgan are from entirely different backgrounds and upbringings, yet manage to connect with each other through their love of music. Add to that the information on organic farming that Sparks peppers throughout the novel, and “Dreamland” became entertaining and informative! The novel is told from both POV’s (Colby and Beverly), each getting alternating sections in the book. Although Beverly seems like a random addition to the novel, her story is emotional and tense and equally (if not more) engaging. I caught on to the connection between the characters early on, but as is his way, Sparks tells a story that is so immersive and heart-warming, I was invested until the final page. I read the entirety of this book in a day, with the short chapters and the easy-flowing plot, I just couldn’t put it down. The thought-provoking theme at the base of this novel (which I won’t reveal to avoid spoilers), was done respectfully and in a heartbreakingly honest way. I know there will be a movie or Netflix adaptation forthcoming, as is the case with most Sparks novels, and I would be intrigued to see how it plays out onscreen. But until then, Sparks fans should definitely add this one to their must-read list!

I did it again.... I skipped way ahead. I try to read my ARCs in an order of release date but when I get approved for something I have been anticipating for basically, ever, I have to drop everything I am doing and read the book. Dreamland, has been on my radar since the day Nicholas Sparks announced he was writing it. I have never missed one Nicholas Sparks book and that is saying a lot since I typically gravitate toward thriller/suspense. Here is the thing though, if you have ever read a Nicholas Sparks book then you know his books DO in fact have a lot of suspense packed in and Dreamland does not differ. This is an amazing love story that will keep you begging for more. You will laugh, you will cry, you will be extremely anxious and you will also fall in love and have your heart shattered all within this one book. The characters are multi-dimensional and come alive through the pages. I can not say enough good things about Dreamland, all I can do is highly recommend you pre-order this book. You will not be disappointed.

TITLE: DREAMLAND AUTHOR: Nicholas Sparks PUB DATE: 09.20.2022 Now Available I had so much fun with this Readalong with a group of hosts doing lives on TikTok, as well as, daily fun challenges. Our discord chat was so much fun and so engaging. Dreamland was the perfect book to read in a group, and with all its twists and turns, we really needed each others’ support as minds were getting blown with the surprise twist. Dreamland is told in alternating points of view between Colby and Beverly. Colby is at St Pete’s Beach on a three week vacation while also playing a gig at a bar - gaining popularity and a fan base. Among them is Morgan, a singer/songwriter, and aTikTok sensation celebrating her college graduation with her friends. Then there is Beverly and her son Tommie, on the run and hiding from an abusive husband. I am so blown away with this book reading almost two different stories, one is a romance novel between Colby and Morgan, and the other, a psychological thriller with Beverly’s story line. Up to the very end, I wondered how the two stories will collide. In an unexpected and surprising twist, the story converged in a mild blowing surprise. I absolutely loved it! All the stars for this amazing book!

Dreamland is another mesmerizing, emotionally impactful, feel-good novel, like only Nicholas Sparks can write. It has all the sweet southern charm, typical of his books, with a beachy flare this time, and an added scenic farm-vibe mixed in. His stories are always richly atmospheric and he is a master storyteller. Dreamland has two distinct storylines that eventually converge in a powerful, evocative manner. We follow Morgan and Colby’s chance meeting at a beach resort, two singers fated to a vacation romance. Their story is raw, wonderful and compelling. The reader is drawn into their relationship and you can’t help but root for them, despite all odds set against them. The other storyline follows Beverly, a young mother on the run from an abusive husband, with a quiet, sweet son in tow. She’s resourceful, caring and clever, but with money running low and a lawman on her heels, she’s desperate to build a new life. This plot is poignant, filled with tension, and over-flowing with anxiety and anticipation. Dreamland is an immersive story of heartbreak, hope and healing. It’s an engrossing story and reminds me that I need to read more of Mr. Sparks’ books. They are truly unique, well-told and spell-binding.

I won’t lie- I had low expectations of this book because his last few were underwhelming. But this book was good. Like, really, really good. I devoured it. It came together in a way I wasn’t expecting between Colby and Beverly and I was really mad with the outcome of Morgan but the epilogue redeemed everything. Such a great read.

✅Reread- Nov 2023 I love this series so much. In fact I love anything written by SJM at this point. I got no words, so will keep it brief. Am gonna cry, the ending to this is so chaotic, and heartbreakingly beautiful. I NEED MOREEEE. I cannot wait for CC3. No matter what I say, am genuinely not prepared for it. Lol I thought I would react calmly to the ending after rereading, heck no. I love Bryce and Hunt and their sizzling chemistry. The way the two care for each other is everything. Their journey is definitely going to be a painful one ahhh. Night and Day will be high on my list too, their dynamic is so beautiful, am expecting there will be a lot of angst and some forgiveness to come for them in the next book. Aidas will have some bigger role to play, and I can't wait to find out. So much happens in this one with Ithan, Ruhn and Tharion too, I need to find out what happens next. All I can say is if you haven't read this series yet, you are missing out. ~•~•~ ✅Original Review- Feb, 2022 I'M SCREAMING. LITERALLY. I might have died. WHAT AN ENDING. 😭❤️ I ABSO-FREAKING-LUTELY LOVE YOU SARAH J. MAAS. OH. MY. GOSH. (Please excuse my screaming. I have lived). Okay, I think I've calmed down enough to review this now that I've had time to process the bombshell Sarah dropped. I swear I've been admiring that last chapter ever since I finished it 😂😭 I had definitely stopped breathing, especially when the name of certain someone appeared. Firstly, Kudos to Sarah for writing such a masterpiece. I think it's going to be one of the best reads of 2022. I don't think I've read a bad review of it so far and rightly so. The book starts off at a good pace which she maintained throughout, especially compared to House of Earth and Blood. This was so much better than what I had expected. If I could have given more than 5 stars, I would. What really interested me was the character development of Hunt, Tharion and Ruhn in particular. Their journey is one worthy of praise. Hunt's power and Ruhn's purity is commendable. Tharion ended up being my favourite, I enjoyed his struggles and his tough decisions, it brought more personality to the limelight. I was hoping he would've made a different choice at the end but it's going to be interesting to see what direction his story takes. Bryce was as usual badass. It was so good to see how she was struggling with Danika's constant secrets, it made her seem more human, instead of a robotic push over. What lays ahead of her in the series is going to be so good to see. There was a lot of foreshadowing done, can't wait to see how it unfolds. Cormac was a nice addition. Ithan and his struggles are shown well and the way he's welcomed into the group is just heartwarming to see. Flynn and Declan as usual are underrated supporting characters. I feel we don't give them much credit. The other supporting characters bring out great chemistry between the group as a whole. It just works out so well😩 The plot as a whole had a lot of twists, some of which had me shocked but it works well together. Their world just got bigger and there are lot of possibilities to explore, I do wonder how Sarah would incorporate it all. It's going to be a challenge considering the fan expectations will hit the roof, but I bet she can pull it off. Also, if anything happens to Hunt and Bryce, Ruhn and Tharion, I'm SUING. 👀 I already CANNOT WAIT for the third book in the series. It's going to be mind-blowing for sure. Through love, all is possible ❤️

HELLO, YES. I FEEL SO VALIDATED NOW. Sarah really said: Hold my champagne, I’ve got work to do and hearts to destroy. Just ... I was right, y’all. I WAS RIGHT. It is 4am and I am reeling and I haven’t slept and just holy shit. Sarah did that. Also, can we just take a moment to appreciate the bro club in this book? Ruhn, Declan, Flynn, AND MY PRECIOUS ITHAN. Okay, Ruhn is still my favorite but ITHAN came out of left field, barreled into me with a boyish smirk and a wink, and next thing I knew I was on my knees *cough* He is a must protect. And Tharion and Cormac? SJM just working her magic, that’s all. Love Bryce and Hunt still of course, but SJM’s side characters have a way of jumping off the page and tunneling into your heart. This book is no exception. The romance delivers, the plot delivers, the EASTER EGGS, the tension, the camaraderie and humor and banter between characters delivers, and THE PLOT TWISTS!?! Holy mother of all plot twists. I mean, yes, I’ve definitely been wanting that and assumed it might be the case, but I didn’t actually expect SJM to do it AND make it so integral to the plot. It was unexpected, and I both loved it and immediately had mixed feelings because it opens a whole can of worms—but after another day of letting it all sink in, I am here for it. I’m excited, and game to see what comes next, and I know SJM has our backs. My theories are ABOUND and the connections I’ve been making in the time since finishing are off the charts. This space is spoiler free, but I can’t wait until we can discuss things more fully Enjoy the book! July 2021: MY SUMMONING CIRCLE WORKED, Y’ALL. HOUSE OF SKY AND BREATH COMING AT YOU JAN 2022. YOU’RE ALL WELCOME. May 5, 2021: summoning circle, hope this works 🕯️ 🕯️ 🕯️ 🕯️ title and 🕯️ 🕯️ cover reveal 🕯️ 🕯️ may 2021 🕯️ 🕯️ 🕯️ 🕯️ and make the title House of Sky & Breath and the cover blue Original, May 19th, 2018: *SJM announces Crescent City #1* Me: a few days later: *sees Crescent City #2 on GR* Me:

THE ENDING !!! !!! umm did not see that coming in 100 million years. I'm excited and scared and sad and just all the emotions tbh. And I've already started book 3 bc I'm on the edge of my seat. Also I literally love all of the characters soooooo much! So many side characters from book 1 get such strong subplots in this book which made me so happy. A lot of times in books with a big cast of characters I'm invested in some characters but not others. BUT in this book I'm so engrossed in all of their plots & love them all.

“Our love is stronger than time, greater than any distance. Our love spans across stars and worlds. I will find you again, I promise.” OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG THAT ENDING!!!!! 🤯🤯🤯🤯🤯 ✅✅✅ ENDING ✅✅ Great characters ✅ Rebels and spies ✅ Complex world-building ✅ Plot ✅ Relationships ✅ Magic / Faes / Shifters ✅ Romance and some smut ✅ Pace ❗️❗️Cliffhanger ❗️❗️ Trigger warnings: grief, torture, and deaths 4.5 stars. It was great, but not as good as the first one. _______________________ Second read: I am still flabergasted by that ending. _______________________ “You're a power player now, Bryce, whether you like it or not.” This book takes place a few months after the end of House of Earth and Blood. Bryce is trying to adapt to her new reality as the Princess of Fae, while also trying to work things out with Hunt to build a healthy and serious relationship. Hunt is enjoying his newfound freedom and Ruhn is building back the trust between his sister and him. Everything is fine and rather normal until they get sucked into a rescue mission involving some rebels and ruthless faes that will not hesitate to destroy them all should their affiliation with rebels be revealed. "You'd almost think this was planned by the gods. They probably have a special task force: How to Fuck Over Bryce and Hunt in One Day." The plot is good, but I didn’t find it as good as in the first book. It is full of unexpected twists and shocking revelations though, and the pace is engaging. My heart was pounding and I had to refrain from skimming parts of the book because I was so anxious to know what would happen, but at the same time, I wanted to take my time and savor this book... Conflicted emotions and a few heart attacks apart though, it is a great book and many details from the first book have a big significance in this book, and I like that there was a deeper connection between the books than simply having the same set of characters embarking on a new adventure. "Our insurance rates will go sky-high," Ruhn said to Declan, appealing to the slightly-less-insane of his roommates. "When the fuck did you become a grown-up?" Flynn barked. Ithan jerked his own chin toward the doorway again. "Wait to have your meltdown until after you meet the fourth new roommate." “I’m sorry,” Ithan said, scrubbing at his face, “but what the fuck is this about?” He glanced at the pizza on the table, as if wondering whether it had been spiked with something. Welcome to our lives, Hunt wanted to say. "You're part of the Quinlan-Silago clan now. We're a crazy bunch, but we love each other." I LOVE the characters in this book, THEY ARE SO CUTE AND PERFECT TOGETHER. SJM worked her magic once again and made me fall in love with them as I did fall in love with the crew of ACOTAR and TOG. The secondary characters are as lovable and amazing as the main characters. The friendship developing between the guys in this book is so cute and wholesome! Ruhn, Flynn, Declan, Tharion, Hunt, and even Ithan are becoming a cute little boy's club and my heart is SO happy about that. I said in my review of the first book that I wanted more of Ithan and Tharion, and I got it! Hypaxia is also more present in this book and I can already see that Bryce and her will make a kickass duo. Okay, now this might be an unpopular opinion, but in light of what we learned in this book, I was not impressed with Danika’s choices and behavior toward Bryce, and the friendship I admired so much in the first book turned a little sour. I feel that Bryce gave her everything to Danika, and Danika only gave her a few pieces. I know Danika loved Bryce fiercely, but she kept so many huge secrets from Bryce, and every time Bruce discovers a new truth about Danika, it only upsets her because she sees how little she truly knew about her best friend… She said to Flynn, “Hey, remember that time you set a dragon free and were dumb enough to think she’d follow your orders?” “Hey, remember that time you wanted to marry me and wrote Lady Bryce Flynn in all your notebooks?” Hunt choked. Bryce countered with, “Hey, remember when you pestered me for years to hook up with you, but I have something called standards—” “This is highly unusual behavior for royals,” Hypaxia observed. The found family is one of my favorite tropes, and I loved every mundane moment with the gang in this book because of this feeling of finally having somewhere to belong. From Hunt making new friends to Ithan and Rhun mending their relationship with Bryce, it was cute, sweet, and so satisfying to see them all finally feel like they belonged somewhere and had people who cared about them. She sipped from her champagne, then said casually to Hunt, "The headline on the gossip sites tomorrow is going to be: Horndog Umbra Mortis gropes Starborn Princess at Ballet." "Good," Hunt murmured. "It'll improve my standing in the 33rd." "You know what I mean," Bryce said. "I'm not sure I do." Had his voice dropped lower? "We're roomies," she said, her own voice getting breathy. "Roomies." "Occasional Beer Pong Champion?" Hunt snatched the hat off her head and plunked it back on his own, backward as usual, "Yes, the Autumn King truly fears our unholy beer pong alliance." The romance between Bryce and Hunt is still super cute, and we also have more spicy moments, even though SJM did ensure that Hunt got cockblocked quite a few times before *it* finally happened. They are cute and funny and they still have that witty banter from the first book that I enjoyed so much. I like that the author managed to keep the sexual tension between them for so long and that when they finally did the deed, they didn’t turn into sex-obsessed fae/angel and did nothing else for the rest of the book. They enjoyed each other but kept in mind that they had more important things to do and that there were lives on the line. “Hel’s armies shall strike at your command, Bryce Quinlan.” I am a little disappointed though that Aidas was not more present in this book. I really like him, and I think he has the potential to be a truly complex and interesting morally grey character, but we haven't seen enough of him to really know what he is up to and where he stands in the conflict that is to come. I can't wait for the next book. There is SO MUCH potential for an even more epic third book, but at the same time, I am SO FREAKING SCARED of what could happen to my babies. 😭😭😭😭😭 Hunt’s voice was a thunderclap as he said behind her, “Light it up, Bryce.” 1. House of Earth and Blood ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Follow me on Instagram 🙂

4.5/5 ⭐ *coughs* *checks voice* *coughs again but louder* WHAT IN THE HEL I JUST READ AND HOW CAN LITERALLY 15 PAGES AT THE END CHANGE EVERYTHING FOR EVERYONE ENTIRELY After those last 15 pages I literally trust no one anymore, especially SJM. I need answers!!!!!

4.5 stars That ending…. I literally have no words… How am I meant to wait for book 3???? Like whattttt????!!! Rounding it up to 5 stars as I am just so hyped and shook, but I do think this could have been edited down a bit.

Reread #2 Guess who’s ready to get hurt again??? I don’t think I can do anything but a very specific reread after this reread 😂 HOLY. FUCKING. SHIT

what. the. FUCK. where do i even begin? first of all, Bryce and Hunt. that’s it, that’s the sentence. second of all, Ruhn and Day!!! i’ve never been so invested in a secondary relationship like i am with theirs…i was literally kicking my feet in the air and giggling every time they spoke to each other and lastly, that entire plot blew my mind. like i’m genuinely speechless and if you know me that’s saying a LOT. one minute i was scratching my head like “huh? what is happening in this book right now?” but wow…it really did come together in the end. sarah j maas truly has the mind of a mastermind and you can’t convince me otherwise.

I will never be okay again....

"To destroy monsters, we become monsters." Spice: 🌶️🌶️ I had no doubts whatsoever that this would be perfection. I love the sort of books that have me in a chokehold from page one and do not let go until they're over. I was so engrossed, I didn't stop reading until my eyes dried. It's just one shocking moment after the other until there's no brain left in your head. Also, I should have been used to Sarah J Maas's signature cliffhangers by now, but no. They still hurt and somehow amaze me at the same time. I feel like I survived a plane crash. Sure, I'm alive...but at what cost? Moreover, the love I feel for Bryce and Hunt has reached the highest of levels. Bryce is a beautiful cinnamon roll that could brutally kill you and has mean scheming skills (Rhysand and Aelin would be proud). Hunt is the softest killing machine and I would gladly lay down my life for him. I can see so much of Sarah's other characters in both of them and I love those parallels. Also, trying to figure out which of the winged bois has the biggest wingspan takes way too much of my time (I'm torn between Hunt and Azriel). What's more, I have never been more convinced that Bryce and Hunt are endgame. That sex scene alone should be enough to quell all our worries. If that doesn't do it for you, then the ending should be your biggest proof. There is no way he's pulling a Tamlin in the situation he is in at the moment. That's some mate-style angst right there. I know some people are coming up with these crazy anti-Bryce x Hunt theories and I am here to say that I completely and disrespectfully disagree! They are a perfect team, a beautiful couple, and they will overthrow their government with the power of their love! (OMG that was so cheesy 🤣) Furthermore, I really love Ruhn's storyline in this book. He has his own love story developing with the most unlikeliest of characters in the series, and a lot of angst to go with it. Said unlikely character has a pretty fascinating storyline too, and I can't wait to read more on that. I hope they mate in the next book. Unless Sarah decides to write their own book. (Doubtful, but a girl can hope.) Ruhn's character development is equally as fascinating. He becomes so much more than just the Rebel Prince going against his father's plans for him and it makes him all the more attractive. Additionally, Tharion needs to get his shit together ASAP. He makes some incredibly questionable decisions in this book and I wonder at his thought process. He went from sexy, mer-badass, to Princess "I wanna be where the people are" Ariel from one moment to the next. I love him, but he's a hot mess. Also, Ithan is the more sensible of the sexy bois in this book. He is basically everyone's white knight, although it took some time for him to come around. I feel bad for him too. He has this crush on Bryce and she has never even thought of him like that. He not only had to watch her flirt with his late brother incessantly, but now he has to watch her (or listen to her, more like) be all in love and horny for Hunt the Sexy Malakim. I hope he finds someone too. Lastly, even though Danika has been dead for 95% of this series, she is still a complete mystery. You would think Bryce was in on her secrets, but apparently that isn't. It isn't surprising either, though, because Bryce has been trying to figure her out since the last book, and she only scratched the surface. So much for being BFFs, am I right? I'm not gonna lie, I'm pretty irritated with this dead lady. I get Danika's need to protect her best friend, but to keep this many secrets from her, it's like she didn't trust Bryce at all. If it's somehow revealed that Danika has been alive all along, somehow, I would be surprised, but not that surprised. Although, that scene at the end of HOEAB feels pretty definitive. No one can be sure with Sarah, though. If she wanted to she'd figure something out. Oh, by the way, I'm not the only one dying to know what Jesiba's deal is, am I? 🤔 Bonus scenes links below: Bryce and Hunt's Bonus Scene: Part 1 Bryce and Hunt's Bonus Scene: Part 2 Ruhn's Bonus Scene Tharion's Bonus Scene

HOLY FUCKING SHITBALLS I am shaking, I am actually shaking. I can't type so you won't get a review. I cried, my eyes watered. This entire thing was too much. Also, Ruhn should have a wheelchair for carrying most of this book on his back and for being one of the best new characters Sarah has ever created. Best character development and best romance in the entire book. Also I don't think I will be able to sleep tonight Ok, now that I calmed down a bit, here are my SPOILER FREE brutally honest and final thoughts. I love Sarah's writing, that's a given, but this book could have been at least 300 pages shorter. Sarah repeats the same recipe way too much. Do I still love that recipe and am I going to continue to read her books until I die? Yes. But no, this was actually one of her weakest books overall. First half was a little boring and repetitive but she always makes up by making me care way too much for other characters, like Ruhn or by ending it with a mindblowing cliffhanger, like this one. Sarah's smart, she knows what this means to us. Will the ending get you to stare at a wall for 2h? Yes. This book would have been a four start for me but it turned into five because she literally did this on purpose. I immediately guessed and knew what was up. So yeah, overall satisfied but I feel emotionally manipulated into giving this five stars. Now we have to wait almost two years for the next one and honestly? I am ok with it. Sarah drains me emotionally and physically, she makes me care way too much. My entire body reacted in ways I can't even explain, that's the shit she does. Also full disclosure? 200% more sex than crescent city? yes. Still 300% less sex than she put in A Court of Silver Flames. There are some very cute and naughty and fun scenes, but compared to Nessian? They're nothing. I honestly feel relieved, I can finally move on and I am ok with waiting for the next one. Sarah drains me because she makes me care way too fucking much, loved it tho. Feels nice to be played emotionally

I mean she was a long book, butttttttttt I’m not mad about it! So many characters to get to know and love! The spice was spicing 🌶️ and the the bomb drops 🤯💣🧨 by the last quarter this book had me in a choke hold! So excited to jump into book 3!

2nd read - 5 ⭐️ I’m ngl this series has potential to top TOG for me. I’m so glad I reread this before CC3. I’m so excited and nervous for what’s to come it’s not even funny. ————————— 1st read - 5 ⭐️ OMG WHAT JUST HAPPENED?????? I simply cannot wait for the next book 😫 “Our love is stronger than time, greater than any distance. Our love spans across stars and worlds. I will find you again. I promise.”

January 2024: Second re-read made me enjoy this a lot more than the first time. I still have beef with the rep and the annoying mer-fuckboi, but overall, it made a lot more sense to me this second time. February 2022: This book turned me into a clown 🤡 Spoilers ahead. . . . . . . . . . . BRYCE & HUNT “Our love is stronger than time, greater than any distance. Our love spans across stars and worlds. I will find you again. I promise.” Let me start by saying that I love them so much, they’ve become my whole personality. Bryce reminded me a little of Aelin with her scheming and secret plans. Luckily, it wasn’t as exaggerated as with Aelin, and it worked a lot better than in TOG. Her sense of humon was fantastic, I laughed so many times with her come backs. I loved how she called Hypaxia instead of Hunt because she needed some girl talk, she’s still one of the best characters Maas has written in that regard. Her female friendships are incredible. The conflict with Juniper, and that last phone call… god, my chest hurts just remembering. And once Juniper finds out what happened to her… can you imagine the angst? I can’t wait for CC3. Hunt Athalar is the best love interest Maas has ever written. There, I said what I said. I loved him even more in this book. He was simping for Bryce in a way that just got to me. I love my big, himbo men to simp for their women. And Hunt knew how to worship our Queen Bryce. His backstory with Shahar felt sketchy, tho. It’s said in this book that he told her he loved her, but she never said it back. And in the first book, he explains how Shahar basically found him when he was in a fragile state after losing his mother, and she pretty much brainwashed him into the cause, to the point that he blindly followed her to their doom. It feels like she used him and manipulated him into believing what they had was special to make him do what she wanted. Bryce was the first person who really saw Hunt and fought for him and the way he marveled at this was so precious. I just feel very protective of Hunt. He presents this strong front, but inside he’s a marshmallow. I even liked his moments of mate-induced rage to protect Bryce. That shit was hot, I don’t even care. I’m here for it. Their smut was out of this world scorching hot. Hunt’s dirty talk was so filthy, it gave me tingles. But what a way to give a girl false expectations. Regular sex won't ever be enough after reading Bryce and Hunt having world-altering, tantric sex. I loved how they became a team but still struggled making decisions together, and how each kept their own agenda and motivations. It was really interesting to see them working through these conflicts and becoming closer because of it. I love that Maas is giving us an established couple this early in the books, it’s rare in romance and I know if someone can make this work, it’s this author. RUHN I’m completely infatuated with this man. It’s been a long time since I lusted this hard for a fictional character. Ruhn has me in such a strong chokehold, I’m willing to forget I'm a feminist for him. That's how bad I’ve got it. After my re-read of the first CC book, I realized Ruhn is most probably Maas’ least toxic male character ever. Think about it. He supports his sister, even if it means he’s losing power, titles or even his magic sword. He loves her above anything else. He’s there for her at all times. He’s also there for his friends. He wants to change archaic Fae traditions. He doesn’t say a single problematic thing about women. In fact, even when Ruhn has been a party boy who enjoys casual sex for a long time, he’s portrayed as always respectful and caring. And don’t get me started on his first chapter, where he’s enthusiastically going down on some random girl whose name he can’t even remember. But that doesn’t stop him from giving her the best orgasm of her life. ✨Ruhn thinking he’s the prince of nothing. ✨Ruhn getting sleeve tattoos to cover the scars left by the abuse he suffered as a kid from his father. ✨Ruhn saying it’s lady’s choice when it comes to sex. ✨Ruhn saying he loves his sister over anything else. ✨Just Ruhn. In conclusion your highness, Ruhn Danaan is a p*ssy eater, and he must be protected at all costs. RUHN & BRYCE “Ruhn looked at his sister and said softly, “You brought so much joy into my life, Bryce.” Their relationship was so beautiful in this book. I got emotional the first time Bryce gave him a hug and he was so surprised and happy. They have such a beautiful bond, and how they look out for each other was my everything. Outside the romances, this is my favorite relationship by far. When he said Bryce had brought so much joy into his life... I ugly cried, y'all. RUHN & “DAY” “You remind me that I’m alive,” she said, voice thick. “You remind me that goodness can exist in the world.” I had so much fun trying to figure out who Day was and Maas played me a fool several times. I was so sure she was Hypaxia at first. And I must admit I was disappointed. Then that scene with the “rough male” happened and I thought it was Celestina. And let me tell you, I didn’t see the chemistry there at all. But I was willing to give it a try because Night/Day were starting to become my fucking everything, alright? And then, the plot twist of the century hit me in the face so hard I needed half an hour to recover lol Their mind-sex scene was so good, I think I've re-read it 10 times already. But the best part was knowing Ruhn was gonna regret it once he knew who she was. I read the beautiful disaster that was their romance, dying for the moment he realized she was one of their enemies and how much that was going to hurt. And boy, did Maas deliver or what. Their last scenes together broke me, especially Lidia calling him through their mental link and he keeping her out... My chest was literally hurting as I read that. They are going to become my whole personality until we get CC3. BRYCE & DANIKA “Through love, all is possible. One last clue from Danika. To look where she’d stamped the phrase—right on this male.” Look, I’m conflicted. On one hand, I loved the plot twist of Danika keeping her mate a secret. But at the same time, Danika kept so many secrets from Bryce when she was alive, that you end up wondering if they were even friends. It just doesn’t make sense. Why didn’t she confide in Bryce? It seems like she didn’t trust her, like Danika thought Bryce was just this vapid, party girl who didn’t care about anything else. But then, why tattoo the Horn on her back? It just doesn’t make sense and it’s pissing me off. I loved their friendship in the first book, but I feel like it was ruined in this one. And I adored Danika but now I just don’t know what her deal is. It’s all very odd. THARION The audacity this man had was astonishing. If Tharion was a real man, he’d be a mansplainer who sits in the subway with his legs wide open and talks about “not all men.” Istg I wanted to kill him when he had the audacity to constantly whine in his POVs about his current situation. Poor guy had ended up forced into servitude to his queen after he fucked her daughter under false pretenses of love and a future together. Poor girl believed him and she thought they’d get married. And he spent 10 years engaged to her, playing along while he worked for her mother, doing whatever was necessary to survive. Only thinking of himself, without caring about the hurt he was causing his fiance. Sure, the River Queen is a sketchy bitch, but that doesn’t mean what he did was right. And the way he decided he was done in this book and how he broke the engagement was also so disrespectful and unnecessarily mean. He left her alone at that part to fuck a random girl. Wtf, Tharion? It didn't sit well with me either how he kept flirting with Bryce. I can understand some friendly banter, but he constantly crossed the line by talking about her underwear, her body or just asking for sexual favors as a joke. And then he even kissed her once "as a joke." And it's funny that some people are complaining about Hunt being an alphahole when he actually laughted at Tharion kissing Bryce. I was more jealous than Hunt, wtf? lol Then he realizes Cormac was on a suicide mission, and instead of helping him, he left when Cormac told him to, even though Tharion knew Cormac was going to die if he did. He ran away. The mothereffer. You know what, I hope the Vipe Queen makes him suffer. I’m sorry, I really can’t stand him. ITHAN Look, I wanted to love him. But for the most part, he just made me super uncomfortable with his silent pining for Bryce. Like, I don't care, Ithan. I love Bryce and Hunt. You can move the fuck on or you can fuck off, honestly. I just hated how he knew his brother Connor and Bryce had a thing, and Connor thought they were mates, and still he harbored feelings for her. I don’t know, I prefer Ruhn and his loyalty to his sister, over this slimy loser panting over his brother’s supposed mate. And the way he told Bryce about Connor believing they were mates after she and Hunt got together. Or how he tried to rile up Hunt about having to wait forever for Bryce to make a decision… Dude, just stop. Then he moved in with Ruhn, Flynn and Declan and things got better. Their friendship was cute and he started to have a real personality, which is always good. By the end of the book, I was liking him more but still, not my favorite by far. I’m hoping his plotline about the secret Fenrys heir makes me like him better. CORMAC What was the point of this character? lol At first I hated him. Then the plot twist was truly magnificent and I started loving him. He turned out to have better morals than most characters. His speeches about fighting for what’s right were incredible. His sad story with Sofie only made him more interesting. His last scene with Ruhn was so emotional... And then he went on a suicide mission. And no one gave a damn. I’m so mad 😅 CONCEPT OF MATES “His lightning flowed into her like a river, and he could have sworn he heard a beautiful sort of music between their souls.” First of all, I loved how Hunt and Bryce chose each other as mates, even before knowing if they were real mates. What Bryce told Hunt, about how if she had a mate, it was him, was so beautiful. Romance where they enthusiastically choose each other over everyone else is my jam. And it was so masterfully done in this book!! Anyway, I think it’s interesting how Maas expanded on the concept of Mates and how they work differently for each race or so they believe at least. In the end, mates seem to be half social construct and half magic. And that social construct is problematic af. Which reflects really nicely with our own social constructs when it comes to genre and love. So hey, I love this. CHOSEN FAMILY TROPE I’m a sucker for this trope, it’s on my top 3 favorite tropes ever. Almost all my favorite books portrait a chosen family. And Maas is really great at developing this trope. I’m just mad this book’s chosen family consisted on Bryce and other 8 dudes. One of them was her mate. Another was her BFF who had secretly had a crush on her for forever. Another was a dude who kept flirting with her, talking about her underwear and offering sexual favors. Another dude was her brother. Another dude was her first crush when she was a teen. Another was gay. And lastly, her fake-fiance and new character who ended up adding nothing to the plot, but okay. Are you seeing what I’m seeing? Maas surrounded Bryce in a garden of peens. Not only that, but several of these dudes openly lusted after her. Where are the female friends??? Remember she had two in the previous book? Anyone remembers Hypaxia? She didn’t even show up in the story until past the half mark. And sure, she tentatively joined the group, but it wasn’t the same as the others. Like, wtf is up with that? I’m not vibing with this shit, let me be real here. And sadly, I think it has something to do with my next point. LGBTI REPRESENTATION Oh my god. OH MY FUCKING GOD. I’m livid, y’all. I’m so angry and disappointed and frustrated and just—What the fuck, Maas??? Alright, let’s compare couples so it’s obvious where the problem is. There are 3 queer couples in this book. 1. Declan and his boyfriend Marc. They started dating in between CC1 and CC2 so we don’t get to see any of this. Marc is just there and Bryce explains briefly they’ve been dating for a month and that’s it. They don’t touch or have any type of intimate moment throughout the whole book. Not even once. There's nothing to indicate they're romantically involved. No chemistry or sexual tension between them. So what, are we expected to care about them??? Sarah J Maas surely didn’t. She didn’t even bother to throw us a bone to pick our interest. The worst part is that Marc shows up only when they need his legal advice, since he’s a lawyer. So it feels like the character was only created to help move forward the plot. He has no agency or really any type of personality, except for being there and saying a few lines related to laws. 2. Juniper and Fury. Their romance shows up a little bit more. The book starts with them happily living together. So there’s no tension or anything that could pick the reader’s interest there. Their romance is just done and over. At least they kiss once, I guess. They are barely in the story, even though they’re supposedly Bryce’s best friends. I’m just mad because the chosen family trope was so well done in this book but it was Bryce and 8 other dudes. All the female characters disappeared or barely showed up at all during the book. And sadly, Juniper and Fury suffered the consequences. So why should I care about them? If I never got to read how their romance happened and I don’t get to read about them now either. 3. Celestine and Hypaxia. Which was a really good plot twist, let me add. And at least they were caught having sex, even though no detail was giving except for a single boob being out in the open lol But sadly, that’s all we got. Apparently they love each other, and it’s sad because they can’t be together. And Celestine is willing to fuck up anyone for Hypaxia, but Hypaxia doesn’t know. So what will happen when she does? But is that enough for me to invest in their romance? Ehhh. Are you seeing a pattern here? Meanwhile, there are 4 straight couples: 1.Bryce and Hunt. They became mates and shared some truly beautiful scenes with epic love declarations and scorching hot smut. 2. Ruhn and 'Day'. Their romance is so well done, it overthroned anything and everything else in this book. Just check social media and how they’ve taken over. Everyone is obsessed, and rightly so because their story was really well done. 3. Ithan and the wolf mystic. So he finds this female alpha wolf who was sold as a mystic, and she turns out to be a lost Fenrys descendant. And he goes against everything to set her free. Their single scene together had more chemistry and added more mystery to the story than the 3 queer couples together. 4. Flynn and the dragon Ariande. They are surely going to serve us some epic enemies to lovers and honestly, I can’t fucking way. Her few scenes were enough to have me obsessed. Sarah J Maas is really good at writing romance, that’s the reason why we read her books. But she adds a few queer couples, and they develop off page and have only a few scenes together with zero chemistry in an 800 pages long book? It’s insulting. I’d rather she didn’t give in to the pressure to include representation in her stories if she’s going to do this. Why couldn’t Declan fall in love with one of the characters that we know and care about? There’s Ruhn, Flynn, Ithan, Tharion… They were all single, any of them could’ve been bisexual. But nope, they are all straight. And meanwhile Declan dates a random no one cares about. Why couldn’t we read about Fury and Jun joining their group? That way we could’ve read about their romance in detail. Hell, why couldn’t we get their POVs? You’re telling me I had to read Tharion whining nonstop and I couldn’t get Fury’s POV? How about Hypaxia’s POV? She didn’t mention her romance, only hinted at loving someone she shouldn’t. Why couldn’t we read her internal turmoil and longing for the woman she knows she can’t have? Meanwhile Maas gave us hints at Hypaxia and Tharion having a thing for each other in CC1 and even in this book, to then reveal she’s in love with a woman. Like, wtf? ENDING AND MULTIVERSE The way I sobbed for a solid ten minutes after reading the ending. I’m so friking excited about this crossover. I don’t even know which book I want to read first, CC3 or ACOTAR5. And I can’t stop wondering how the eff is Maas going to pull this off. You know the amount of characters, storylines, relationships, conflicts, mysteries… there are if you combine both series?? Okay so here are some theories and thoughts I have about future books: . . . . . . So does this mean Rhys is related to Ruhn? But not Bryce… So 1. Could Rhys’ last name be Danaan?? and 2. Could Ruhn’s mother be Rhys’ sister? Also, teleporting is basically winnowing. They both master shadows and mind communication. They share the same powers and look alike. So obviously, I’m not okay??????? Is the creature trapped under the lake in ACOTAR the 7th Asteri? Was Amren working with the Asteri and once they left the ACOTAR world, she was left behind, thus why she was held prisoner?? Are the Fae in the CC world the Dusk Court that disappeared from the ACOTAR world?? Apollion said Hunt was bred, does that mean he could be Illyrian? Was he bred in preparation for the Starlight being born again? Because his powers charged Bryce and they could share energy and level each other up. So it seems like it was done intentionally if he was bred, since the Asteri need Bryce to open up the portals to conquere other worlds. Could the Viper Queen be a Valg? And what she did to Tharion was a blood-oath. Like Maeve did with Rowan, Lorcan, Fenrys…? Was the metheore mentioned in CC2 mothereffing Aelin???? . . . . . . . If you got this far in my review, I’m so very sorry. lol

“Through love, all is possible.” 5 dazzling stars! This is an action-packed fantasy about power, betrayal, passion and love. Sofie, who has vital information is captured and killed when saving her brother from a death camp. Bryce and her friends try to find out what vital information Sofie discovered. They also learn new secrets about Danika and what she knew before she died. Bryce discovers that the information Sofie knew will change the world forever and everything that she believed to be true. I absolutely loved this book! The pacing was perfect and the book was action-packed from the beginning till the end. I love Bryce so much, she is caring, kind, strong, and will do anything for the ones she loves. I'm in love with Hunt, he is sweet, caring, devilishly handsome and strong. I also love Ruhn, he is kind, passionate, smart and very handsome. I loved the banter between Bryce and Hunt. I really liked the side characters, they are each unique and have their own stories and ambitions. I was completely swept away by the beautiful writing and the fantastical world. I loved the inclusion of fantastical creatures including Fae, wolves, witches, dragons, angels, mer and more. There were so many shocking twists and turns in this book that I didn't expect. The ending was so shocking and amazing, I'm so speechless! I can't wait for the next book!

Hello Bryce Quinlan... 1/6/24 - I don't even have the energy or bandwidth to try and draft a review for this right now lol. I just want to say that I really have no idea how SJM comes up with the shit she does lol. I mean, this series gets so WILD that it made my head spin (again). This series in particular is so detailed and intricate that you may want to pull your hair out from time to time. ╰┈➤But it's so worth it. ╰┈➤And now I'm even more anxious and excited for book 3. ╰┈➤Also- Ruhn Danaan, Crown Prince of the Valbaran Fae is hubby. ─── ･ ｡ﾟ☆: *.☽ .* :☆ﾟ. ─── Re-read in anticipation of HOFAS - I can't wait!!! 💃🏻🍾🤩🤸🏻‍♀️ "Maybe it's our curse as immortals. To see time as a luxury, a never-ending ocean." 🌊💙✨

To quote the Hot Scott "Just when you think you have all the answers, I change the questions." This is another example of SJM's awesome writing. She makes books over 800 pages seem too short. When the only complaint I have of a book is I have to wait for the next one, I definitely enjoyed it. Bryce and her team are back. They have the perfect team name that comes up later in the book. This book is full of secrets that just keep leading to more questions. Since the last book, Bryce has become even more infamous and attracted the attention of all the wrong people. On top of this, she is drawn into the secrets left by her dead friend/sister Danika. This is something Bryce can not and will not leave alone, but curiosity kills the wolf. Will Bryce fare any better? What is the price of her loved ones is too high. Very few people on this book are who I thought they were. Hard and bloody choices will have to be made. Reading the last line of this book gave me chills, and there is no way I am giving away that spoiler. I'm just saying it is huge. I already can't wait to get the next book.

|| 5.0 stars || Ummm hellooo!?!?? Why on earth did no one tell me how insanely amazing this is!?? Why the hell has it taken me this long to finally start this series?? I was actually dreading to pick this series up quite a bit because of what I’d heard people say about it. I had pretty low expectations and I honestly thought it might be a total drag to get through. I was even reluctant to pick up this sequel, despite loving the first book, because people said it would all go downhill… But really, wow, did this end up blowing all of those assumptions away for me! It was so much better than I would have ever thought, and I am genuinely so insanely invested in it all. I know this is an unpopular opinion, but this is by far SJM’s best series in my eyes. It doesn’t even come close for me. You can really tell how much she has grown as an author over the years, and she can be very proud of the result she has gotten out of it with this series. Honestly, though, this series, and this book in particular, just managed to hit all the right spots for me. It’s a very long book, but it never feels like it. All the pages just flew me by and I was thoroughly entertained from beginning to end. I think it’s also for a big part because I’ve genuinely grown to care for and enjoy all of these characters so much; I could read about them having the most mundane conversation ever and it’d probably still make me smile indulgantly at them. I mean, I honestly think the first book did have a better storyline than this one, but my love for the characters has honestly grown and grown so much that it still made this just as fun, if not more so, to read! There is a lot to love about this book, so I could probably go on forever, but I don’t want to babble on for too long, so I’ll end this by giving a well-deserved shoutout to my favourite addition that we got with this sequel and that was: Night and Day (I’ll use their codenames, so whoever hasn’t read this book yet won’t know who I’m talking about and so won’t have the book spoiled for them). I mean, oh my god, I’m obsessed with them! The setting of all their interactions was so interesting, and I loved seeing them both find a safe place with each other amidst all the sadness, doubt and fear in their hearts. It was just so beautiful to see Day talk about how she finally found a person who truly saw her, and not the mask of cruelty and coldness she usually wore. He was the only one who ever showed her love, and it's why he also became the only person she has ever felt love towards in her whole life. Knowing how rare that love was to her made her devotion to him feel so much more special. “In a world full of enemies, you’re my only friend.” Honestly, the angst and impossibility of these two just truly had me in a chokehold, and I was totally held in its thrall every time a new thing happened between them or was revealed. Day, especially, intrigued me so much, and she honestly holds a very special place in my heart now. She’s so brave and selfless to have lived the life she has, doing the things she has done, knowing everyone hates her for it, in the hopes of creating a better world. That’s true sacrifice. And I hope Night will see that when it is time for him to… She certainly has my love forever. 'Crescent City' series: 1. House of Earth and Blood - 4.5 stars 2. House of Sky and Breath - 5.0 stars 3. House of Flame and Shadow - 4.0 stars Prequel 'A Court of Thorns and Roses' series: 1. A Court of Thorns and Roses - 3.5 stars 2. A Court of Mist and Fury - 3.0 stars 3. A Court of Wings and Ruin - 4.0 stars 4. A Court of Silver Flames - 3.5 stars Other Sarah J. Maas books: ‘Throne of Glass’ series - var. ratings Catwoman: Soulstealer - 4.0 stars

5 STARS OBVIOUSLY!!! rtc after I process what I just read. I’M SHOOK

Our love is stronger than time, greater than any distance. Our love spans across stars and worlds. I will find you again, I promise. House of Sky and Breath is a masterful continuation of the Crescent City series, delivering a complex and gripping narrative that keeps you hooked from beginning to end. This book picks up a few months after the events of "House of Earth and Blood," with Bryce and Hunt laying low on orders from the Asteri Rigelus. Their romance is blossoming, and Bryce is coming to terms with her newfound status as a Starborn Fae Princess with the power of Starlight. The story takes an intriguing turn as Bryce is suddenly betrothed to the Avallar Fae Prince Cormac, a move driven by political motives and her fear of her tyrannical father, the Autumn King. Meanwhile, the mystery of the missing human siblings, Sofie and Emile, unfolds. These siblings may hold a powerful secret related to their ability to control electricity, making them essential in the ongoing human-led Ophion rebellion against the Asteri. The narrative introduces a host of new and fascinating characters, each with their own unique backstories and motivations. As you follow Bryce and Hunt's journey, you'll also become engrossed in the unfolding Ophion rebellion, the complexities of Fae politics, and the profound secrets hidden within the Asteri Archives. The revelations about the Asteri's true nature and their exploitation of worlds add depth to the story, challenging the characters' understanding of the world they inhabit. Throughout the book, the chemistry between Bryce and Hunt deepens, and they come to realize the significance of their bond as mates, a concept in Fae culture that goes beyond traditional marriage. Their relationship is both passionate and tender, making their characters all the more engaging. Sarah J. Maas weaves a rich and intricate tapestry of storytelling, blending romance, action, political intrigue, and revelations about the nature of their world. House of Sky and Breath also leaves readers with a tantalizing cliffhanger, leaving you eager for the next chapter in this spellbinding series. In conclusion, House of Sky and Breath is an enthralling continuation of the Crescent City series that will keep fans of fantasy and romance eagerly turning the pages. It's a must-read for those who appreciate complex world-building, well-developed characters, and a story that never loses its momentum.

i feel like every sjm book gets better each time i reread it 😌 ~ it's timeeeeee 🤭 my reread ahead of hofas starts now besties 💪🏼

** spoiler alert ** What in the multiverse portals shit was that

SJM throws curve balls better than an A-class Major League Baseball pitcher All I’ll say for now is… I KNEW EVERYTHING AND NOTHING AT THE SAME TIME and my vlog will be out Friday. But I do pat myself on the back for some of my hella fine smartness.

4.5 stars what?? in the everloving hell? was that fucking ending??? sarah really likes to leave me stressed out as hell after finishing her books, that's for sure. this is right on par with her dumping the ending to "empire of storms" on me and then waltzing away like she hasn't crushed my soul and left me sobbing on the floor of my room... because what was that ending? i'm not going to lie, this book did start off with some mild second-book-syndrome. it was a lil info dumpy and there also wasn't a whole heap going on, but when it picked up, it REALLY picked up. before i knew it i binged an entire 500 pages in one day, and sarah had me invested in even more side characters then i thought possible... and let it be known that i've fully jumped on the ruhn train now. i can see why some people dislike hunt or say he and bryce are boring, but i have to disagree - i absolutely LOVED them in this book. they were so familiar and loyal and close that is just melted my heart and had me smiling every second page, and honestly i love how they're also best friends as well as lovers, because god knows bryce needs a new best friend after all this shit coming out about danika. hunt was always there for bryce, and i absolutely loved their relationship and can't wait to get more of it - and i better get more of it real soon, sarah, or i'm going to lose my shit. overall, i really enjoyed this the more i got into it, despite the slow start. i can't wait to see how sarah concludes this series, and i'm still screaming from that ending, because omfg!!

I was not prepared for the storm that was this book. I get that every book works differently for others and saw a lot of negative reviews. So here's just me going on about how much I LOVED it. I thought Iron Flame was good? This was even better. It's fast paced, it's full of action. Like it did not let me catch a breath throughout. There was so much happening and it had me stressing, screaming, crying, giggling. The angst, the romance, the dragons and the plot were all on the mark for me. The action sequences along with the world building expanding was chef's kiss. The political navigation and intrigue was skillfully done and never lost my interest. The mind this woman has to write this is brilliant. I personally didn't have any issues with the writing. I ate it up 🤌 🖤 Xaden, my man, oh how I love him. I swear he gets better by the book. I didn't think he could get better. But he did that promotes him to book husband category. I loved how morally grey he is and he's all about her while still being his dominant self. ⚡ Violet was also fine. She had her badass, witty moments but she also had her moments of humbling and that made her more real. The chemistry between the two, the tension between them had me swooning. I honestly don't even blame her for fangirling and swooning over Xaden like us. 🐉 The characters and dragons in this world really makes the story. The complexities that came in with Tairn, Andarna and Sgaeyl was brilliantly written and so underrated. Apart from that, Dain, Aaric, Ridoc, Mira, Cat and Garrick really made it special. But Sawyer's and Sloane's struggles really caught my eye in ways that make them stand out. The last few pages.... OH MY GOSH LEAVE ME HERE TO ROT BECAUSE I CANNOT WAIT FOR THE NEXT BOOK AND NOT A DAY WILL GO BY WHEN I WON'T THINK OF IT. I NEED MOREEEEEEEE *insert screaming and crying here*

7⭐️ because 6 stars simply isn’t enough. I actually am crawling into my grave and never coming out. I am sick. I am disgusted BY HOW COMPLETELY AND UTTERLY OBSESSED I AM WITH THIS SERIES!!!!!!! I actually can’t stop crying. All I know is pain and tears. I cannot form coherent thoughts. I cannot form a concise review because I don’t know how to speak. I don’t know how to exist? How do I keep living? I can’t. Guys this is my new favorite book ever…. Like how?! How?!!!!!!!! Xaden and violet are everything to me. No fictional couple will ever compare. It’s them or nothing. VIOLET YOU ARE THAT BITCH AND I WILL DEFEND YOU WITH EVERYTHING I HAVE!!!!!! Xaden. No don’t even start with me. No other fictional man will ever come close. Number 1 forever and always. HOW DID HE GET BETTER IN THIS BOOK?!!!!!! Every time he opened his mouth I folded. Gone. Soul left my body. I cannot think about anything else. Uhm….. I have so many questions WHAT JUST HAPPENED???????? That ending??? Jail. Jail. Foul. I want to wipe it from my brain. HOW AM I GONNA WAIT YEARS FOR ANSWERS???? I’m not. I’m never reading again because all I know is this book.

FIVE FREAKING STARS! sooo gooood!!! If you told me I would've given this book 5 stars at the beginning, I wouldn't have believed you bc I was so confused the first few chapters😅😅. But then the confusion cleared and this book gave me all the feels fourth wing gave me. THE ROMANCE! THE WAY XADEN WOULD DIE FOR VIOLET! I will never get enough of this man. The way Violet would do ANYTHING for the people she cares about🥹 I love her w my whole heart. And the fantasy!! We get to go alllll over the map in this book which was so cool to really explore the world. & There were so many twists and turns (especially at the end!!). I wish I could read book 4 asap but alas I will be sitting and waiting not so patiently for the next book.

I can’t even lie this was so much better than iron flame. It’s been 24 hours and I haven’t stopped thinking about this!!!!!!! This book single handedly made me fall back in love with the series. I honestly really enjoyed the pace and could have read 500+ more pages easily

Every other book I read after this one will be trash because they aren’t this one. Do with that information what you will. I’d like Xaden Riorson tattooed on my forehead.

Okay I’ve had time to process my thoughts. This book was the best one yet by far. I literally could not put it down. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ SO much expansion on the world building and lore of the continents, so many answered questions, the banter was TOP NOTCH, as was the romance. I love where she’s taking this series and I already have several new baby theories brewing in my brain. Hats off to Rebecca for this series - it’s truly such a compelling, gut wrenching, emotional rollercoaster that I never want to get off of. I’ll be sitting here strapped in to my seat (not so patiently) waiting for the ride to start again with book 4 🎢 *yes it does end on another doozy of a cliffhanger, but that’s what we live for after all*

this pain feels like my heart is existing outside of my body❤️‍🩹 six stars, no question - i am ruined for all other male main characters

HER BEST BOOK YET!!!!! HOLY SH*T

WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK DID I JUST READ?!?!?! This book. THIS. DAMN. BOOK. I am NOT okay. I felt every single emotion imaginable anger, joy, despair, hope, heartbreak—you name it, I lived it. I am absolutely unwell. THE ENDING??? Rebecca Yarros just ripped my heart out, stomped on it, and said, “You’re welcome.” I have SO many questions, and no one to answer them. The twists? The stakes? The EMOTIONAL DAMAGE? I’m still reeling, empty inside, and staring at the ceiling wondering what I did to deserve this. the absolute DEVASTATION i feel right now. everything about this book was a masterpiece of torment. It was brilliant and cruel, and honestly, I loved every painful second of it. But also, I need therapy now. Rebecca Yarros, I need answers, and I need them NOW. How am I supposed to survive until the next book?!?

ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ✦ . ⁺ . 5.0 ☆ . ⁺ . ✦ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ˋ°•*⁀➷ㅤmight contain spoilers ❗ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ᯓ ✿ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍re-reading ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⪼ ┆30-Jan-2025┆ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⤿ my physical copy has just arrived, so you all know what this means: time to reread so i can annotate. ♡ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ In contrast to my expectations after reading all the horrifying one-star reviews, this was a direct 5-star read for me. Was this book perfect in any way? Absolutely not. But I cried, I laughed, I was hooked on the action, and I had a hell of a time reading this, while it also left me spiralling as soon as I finished its very last page; for me, that immediately equates to a maximum rating. I read for enjoyment and amusement, and if a book can fulfil those goals for me, that's all that matters. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ Now, if I also tell you that has been BY FAR the best book in the series for me up until now, then what? ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ “Get your leathers. We have dragons to ride.” ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ short(?) summary ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ After surviving the Basgiath battle in Iron Flame, Violet takes on a new task: healing Xaden. His temptation to use more of the venin power grows by the day, and he is forced to battle it despite knowing his fate is sealed. However, the threat to those he loves about escalates, and he may soon reach a point of no return. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ Violet is forced to fight against both Xaden's waning hope as well as the weakening Aretian wards, which are the only thing separating the venin from Xaden's beloved homeland, as the war rages on. But if they can locate and enlist the aid of the rest of her kind, Andarna could hold the solution to both of these issues. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ Together with the rest of their Quest Squad, Violet sets out on a quest that will hopefully lead them over the ocean and to the answers they so desperately need. Do not worry; you will not find yourself bored, as this search is so full of Tarin's delicious sassiness and Ridoc's infamous jokes that will make this book as entertaining as it gets. But would their strong will and courage be enough to save both Aretia and Xaden? ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ honest thoughts ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ I will first address one of the most controversial aspects of this work, which is its slow pace. I want to make it clear that this is completely a personal opinion, but I loved the way the action moved in this book, and I definitely appreciated all the new information. ㅤ While I enjoy action-packed books that keep me really intrigued, I love it when a series, especially one with more than three books, simply slows things down a bit and works on strengthening relationships between characters and historical aspects of the book; all while bringing new information to put my mind to work. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ And, following what I mentioned above, I also want to talk about the supposed information dump in this book. Is there a lot of information for you to process in this book? Yes, A LOT, and I might genuinely need a second reading to be able to notice the things I clearly missed at first. But for me, nothing from this book seemed too much or too overwhelming in terms of new information. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍I am the type of person that seeks out all conceivable information in a book series, so if you take political, historical, and sociological aspects of a fictional world and accurately present them in a book, I will devour each piece of it. This is what Onyx Storms was for me, so even though I may be in the minority with this opinion, I appreciated it. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ I genuinely don't know why people seemed disappointed with the writing in this book, since the writing has always been acceptable at most for this series. I went into it with the right expectations, knowing what was to follow, and I was able to simply enjoy it. This series is simply my guilty pleasure. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ Another thing I saw mentioned a lot about this book is how this just entirely feels like a filler book. And while I do see where everyone is coming from and I can understand why so many people were disappointed by this, this series just thrived with this book, in my humble opinion. Once again, this is only my personal taste because I love a good filler book when it is placed at the perfect moment in a series. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ I think I became bored of trying to keep up with all the action scenes in the first two novels since the events were so fast-paced and dramatic. So you can understand why a much slower novel that focusses on introducing new information while also shining a light on many side characters was so enjoyable for me. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ This book is exhausting to read and I am not even kidding with this. I had to read it while continually switching between checking who is who and locating what they are talking about on the map. But I would be a complete hypocrite to state that I was so impacted by this in such a way that it took away the pleasure of reading for me, especially since at one point I had to do the same for Throne of Glass, which is my favourite series ever. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ This is honestly my favourite version of Xaden and Violet so far. Many people commented on how odd Xaden and Violet's actions were in this novel. To be honest, in Xaden's situation, I suppose that was to be expected, as well as purposeful, given that he isn't totally himself. However, both characters seemed grown while still maintaining the "madly in love" component. I got to see a badass Violet who has finally stopped doubting herself at every turn, as well as a Xaden who borders on insanity more than once, and they both worked for me. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ Lastly, the romance in this book was just so perfect for me that I was shocked how much I am enjoying it at one point. After the cringe show that Fourth Wing was for me and the therapeutic approach to romance that Iron Flame brought, this was like a breath of fresh air. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ Illogical longing? Angst? With a sprinkle of completely uncalled for drama at times? Yes, please. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⋅ ☾ The ending was absolutely perfect for me. Go ahead, break my heart and right after that also make my brain struggle and I will surely absolutely love that ending. I am a only person that simply loves to suffer in uncertainty. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ characters ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍I feel like I have so much to say about these characters that I can't find the perfect words. So, I'll try to limit myself to as little information as possible while yet covering all of the key points. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⚔︎ Violet - If you saw me commenting on both Fourth Wing and Iron Flame you know that I always had a love-hate relationship with her as a character. I can genuinely say that this book, finally, made me like Violet a bit more and find her slightly more relatable as a character. It is evident that she has finally found her centre, and she flourishes here. Despite all of the setbacks and things that appear to go against all of her intentions, she never gives up and keeps trying. I loved seeing that she was no longer destroyed by failure, and it was very motivating on some level. She still had a long way to go for me to genuinely appreciate her as a character, but so far, she appears to be on the right track. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⚔︎ Xaden - I am weak; you give me a hopeless, miserable, lost and yet frighteningly strong tortured soul, and I will simply fold in an instant. He wasn't the same character we met in the previous two books? Fine. Perfect, even! That's because he wasn't even supposed to be the Xaden we met in the previous two books and this was perefectly shown here. You all know the ending of Iron Flame and what it implied; you all know that once someone channels, they slowly start to lose more and more of themselves to the power. So why did anyone expect to not see any changes in Xaden? Of course, he was going to be different and, apparently, this type of "different" just worked perfectly for me. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ I suffer from the I can change him syndrome, so of course an unhinged, slightly mad and insane at times Xaden was enough to make me swoon. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⚔︎ Tairn, Andarna, Sgaeyl - I love them. I simply love all the dragons. But Tairn will always have a special place in my heart, and I don't think I will ever be able to get over what an amazing character he is in this book AGAIN. He is just perfect, he has no flaws. He would probably rip my head off for it, but I badly want to pet him and tell him I live for his sassiness. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⚔︎ Ridoc ♡ - Is he my favurite character in this book? ABSOLUTELY. I already fell in love with him and all his shenanigans since Fourth Wing, but the fact that he got so much attention in this book was the best thing that could have happened. We were already used to his jokes and his role of our comic relief, but the caring and protective side of him and his loyalty that simply shines in this book are unmatched. I feared for his life throughout the entire book, and I will never forgive Rebecca for that heart attack I almost had. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⚔︎ Mira and Brennan - I might still not entirely trust any of them, but they really do care about Violet and I really hope they manage to overcome whatever family drama they are currently experiencing. I love them as siblings; they are the perfect example of how siblings actually act at times, and I badly need nothing to happen to any of them. I am still highly annoyed by their unnecessary drama at times, but I guess this is their way of progressing. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⚔︎ Garrick, Bodhi and Imogen - I am putting these three together because the loyalty they have and the pure devotion to Xaden and, surprisingly, to Violet's protection is simply beautiful. I am really begging Rebecca to give us more of them. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⚔︎ Sawyer, Rhiannon, Dain, Sloane, Cat, Aaric, Maren - Nothing will ever make me stop loving our lovely squad. I would badly love to talk more about them, especially Sawyer's progress and Aaric's shocking and incredibly amazing development, but this is unfortunately already getting too lengthy; and I promised myself to not reach the word limit like I did with my review for Iron Flame once again. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ What I do want to mention here, however, is that I need Rebecca to understand that not any small and insignificat character in this book needs a name. Lucky for me, I didn't really mind going back and forth and listening to so many new names being added to the characters list. But I totally see how some readers might feel so overwhelmed by this. I am perfectly ok with knowing there is "a general/ a liutenant/ a rider/ a flier/ whatever else there is". I don't need to know their name, history and family. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ should you read this? ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ I am a straightforward person with honest remarks, therefore I will simply ask you: Did you enjoy the first two volumes in this series? If the answer is yes, then give it a shot. You may like or loathe it, but you should surely read it. But if the answer is no, what exactly are you doing here? I mean, unless you want to turn this into a hate read, in which case I completely understand and support you.God knows how many hate reads I have done in my life, so I won't be anyone's moral compass. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍I devoured this book. I was unable to put it down and it had me entirely hooked from page one. I understand that various readers look for different things when determining if a book is excellent or poor, but I am primarily a mood reader, and all that counts to me in a book is how it made me feel. If I have true fun while reading it, if I cry or laugh with the characters, and if the book itself manages to make me sympathise with what it is attempting to convey, I don't need anything else to rate it; I have all I need right there. Not to add that the ending was completely mind-blowing in ways I can't even begin to articulate. I loved the cliffhanger and the confusion it created. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍So, unexpectedly enough even for me, Onyx Storm is my first 5-star read of 2025. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹ ❗ Theories - spoilers ahead ❗ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍I generally do not do this in my reviews, but my mind is working fast right now and I just needed to express these thoughts somewhere. I'd also love to hear your own thoughts, so do share them!! ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ - I am about 60-70% certain that "the brother" who joins Xaden at the very end is Bodhi. I still have some reservations, but I believe it is him. He was unable to counter Theophanie; he does not wish to rule Tyrrendor in Xaden's stead, and it has been stated several times that Bodhi follows whatever Xaden does out of pure loyalty. These will all be enough to persuade him to channel and join Xaden. Not to mention that it would provide support to the concept of Xaden marrying Violet in order to ensure Tyrrendor's continued rulership. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ - So, after we got the idea that riders acquire signets to be straight counterparts to venins, it occurred to me that Violet could be the Sage's direct counterpart. We know Berwyn enters Xaden's dreams in the same way Violet does, so that makes perfect sense. Also, I think Violet's signet is perfect because she states several times that the cure could only be in a venin's head...and guess who can enter someone's head right now? I am also confident that Violet will do a lot of dream-walking to meet Xaden. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ - I am certain that the "it" in Xaden's message from the final chapter is not Tyrrendor. I believe Violet will be compelled to act as a tether for whatever remained of Xaden's soul, because I am sure there was a significant portion left, as Sgaeyl witnessed. How would that help cure Xaden? I'm not sure yet, but I have a feeling he requested her to protect that portion of his soul. I'm genuinely interested how this will turn out. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ - Am I the only one who thinks that the gifts received on Zehlynna are not actually that useless? I can't be the only one who immediately thought about Jack's compass from The Pirates of the Caribbean when I read about Violet receiving a broken compass that does not show North. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ - There are four missing riders, correct? Xaden is one, obviously, and I believe the others are Bodhi, Garrick, and Aaric. Bodhi because, as previously said, I believe he joined Xaden, and the other two since it is indicated in the last chapter that six dragon eggs are gone. Who desired dragon eggs in exchange for military assistance? Queen of Unnbriel. Who was the primary translator of their language and the sole royal representative? Aaric. And who is a distance wielder who can bring Aaric and the eggs there faster? Garrick. This is simply my guess. ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ - Despite the angst, I believe Imogen's decision to erase Violet's memory was completely essential. Violet cannot know Xaden's location in case she is investigated for this. I sincerely hope we learn more about those 12 hours as quickly as possible, but I am confident that a solid plan was developed during those hours; one that Violet entirely agreed with. This is also why Xaden and Violet's meetings will most likely take place exclusively in their dreams, and Xaden will not reveal his location for a while. ⊹₊┈ㆍ┈ㆍ┈ㆍ✿ㆍ┈ㆍ┈ㆍ┈₊⊹ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ᯓ ✿ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ‍‍‍‍‍‍pre-reading ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⪼ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ started ┆23-Jan-2025┆ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ㅤ ‍‍‍‍‍‍ ⤿ I know I said I was going to start this at the end of the week, but everything is crazy at work, so what better time to start this? Also, I am not sure how much more I can avoid the spoilers, so... MAY NOTHING HAPPEN TO RIDOC. AMEN.

WHAT THE FUCK. ok upon 72 hours of rest + recovery following this book… I’ve decided I’m entering into a medically-induced coma until book 4 is released <3 xaden? i would genuinely sacrifice a human being for u. violet? in my head we’re best friends. tairn? smash. dain? smash. ridoc? smash. garrick? smash. aaric??? u guessed it… smash. the unreal development of the side characters, vi + xaden’s love, the plot, the setting?? everything was chef’s KISS despite leaving me with even more fking questions than Iron Flame. ugh. so obsessed - nothing compares.

I’m absolutely in love with this world, its dragons, & its characters. Bravo, Rebecca! This book was nothing like I expected—& I’m not even mad about it (though that ending will haunt me for far too long). The side characters stole the show for me. I adored them so much, & I loved how deeply we got to know them. I already miss them!!! Xaden was absolute perfection, & Violet really stepped up her game in this book. While there were moments that felt a bit repetitive, the overall experience was so EPIC that I didn’t even mind. My heart raced, I laughed out loud more times than I could count, & yes, I cried like a baby & had to physically pick my jaw up off the floor multiple times. Stay tuned—our Onyx Storm episode drops Monday. We have a lot to say🤭 @whatshesreadingpod

”’What did you do?’ ‘What you asked me to.’” ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ The biggest f-ing 6 stars, gosh maybe the best book of the series (but I said that about both prior books) ⚔️This review will be rant first, review second. You can skip the rant if you want! I have to defend this series ON MY HONOR.⚔️ I feel like it needs to be said that Yarros very clearly after Fourth Wing decided to take this from a fun romantasy into a more serious epic high fantasy - so if that isn’t your jam, I wouldn’t recommend this book or series to you. There’s a lot of world-building, an overarching plot with multiple side plots, multiple enemies, sprinklings of foreshadowing throughout that you need to remember, and many new characters — this is how epic high fantasy goes. I know that’s not how it started, but it’s how it’s going and continuing to evolve, so if you don’t enjoy that, just hop off the train. You are allowed to not enjoy books and have your own opinion, but also why waste your precious time reading books of a genre you don’t enjoy and then hate on it, you know? High fantasy takes a lot of effort and critical thinking to understand if you want to really enjoy what the author is trying to do. You are allowed to stop reading a series if you aren’t enjoying it. With that - what’s up with all the hate reads? What’s the point? That doesn’t seem like a fair assessment of a book when you had the pretense of hating it. Why is this a thing? You don’t buy a piece of clothing that you hate and obviously isn’t your style, wasting your hard-earned money and the hours you spent making said money, and then go and review it saying it’s the ugliest thing you’ve ever owned and give it 1 star, right? If you want to lose hours of your life doing a hate read, fine I guess. But if you go in with the idea that you’re going to hate it and hate it the whole time, maybe don’t give it a star rating. It just unnecessarily skews the ratings for people who are actually looking for a new book or series to enjoy. Books change lives. This series changed my life. I went through something terrible, and this book/series and these characters got me through it. You might think that’s stupid, and that’s fine, but it was exactly what I needed when I read it. THIS SERIES MIGHT BE EXACTLY WHAT SOMEONE NEEDS RIGHT NOW BUT THEY WONT PICK IT UP BECAUSE THEY SEE A BUNCH OF 1 STAR HATE REVIEWS. *There’s a difference between going in excited/neutral reading a book and not liking it, and just hating it the whole time and never giving it a chance. Let’s stop wasting the precious hours of our lives hate reading, and set on your mission to find your next life-altering book. *RANT OVER* ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ *ENTER REVIEW* ‼️SPOILERS AHEAD‼️ buckle in folks, it’s gonna be a long one🫡 I can’t say how impressed I am with this book. I felt like Iron Flame definitely took the necessary steps to get us where we are at, and I am so down for it. Shifting into high fantasy mode.✨ Onyx Storm is absolutely epic. I would say that we are out of our easy to read Fourth Wing era, and have entered our critical reading era. I think if you read this book just like you would any other, it would be an okay read. However, if you do a literary analysis while you are reading, being sure to pick up on the careful wording, the foreshadowing planted throughout, etc - you will find yourself reading an excellently executed book. Yarros did not. miss. a. beat. While I was reading it felt like I was attempting to solve a puzzle the whole time, trying to put together the pieces Yarros was giving us, and it was so exciting. Basically, if you love epic high fantasy, this book is for you. ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ ”’You need to be able to find me.’ ‘Why me? Xaden!’ ‘Because you’re the only one capable of killing me.’” ⚔️Plot: Talk about an incredible plot. There is still the overarching plot of the war with the venin, but we have multiple side plots that are characteristic of high fantasy. Violet is trying to find the irids while also attempting to discover a cure for the venin, Xaden is trying to keep himself from turning initiate to asim, also while being Duke of Tyrrendor, PROFESSOR RIORSON 🥵, fighting battles, and also holding more of his own secrets. THE POLITICAL INTRIGUE. Gosh I am such a sucker for politics in fantasy books, so naturally I loved the Senarium/Assembly. And mostly, I enjoyed Xaden stomping down everyone else’s peasant ideas. The quest squad might just be one of my favourite developments of this book. Without even discussing character development during this sequence of Onyx Storm - THE WORLD BUILDING. We literally get to discover like 5 different locations while they are trying to secure alliances. Each place was so rich with its own culture; I think Deverelli was my absolute favourite. *I can’t wait to see if the compass leads Violet to Xaden* The finale of this book was exceptional; there was so much to dissect and put away for later. The Nature Valley granola bar was crumbing all over the place. It truly was an incredible ending. Did she channel? Did Theophanie tell Violet the cure? Is Andarna back? Was that Imogen’s second signet? Is Garrick the new “brother”? ⚔️Characters: Well, Yarros really knows how to get us invested, I don’t know what else to say. I’m obsessed with second squad. Rhi is an excellent leader, and thank god SOMEONE is capable of forgiving secrets around here. I really appreciated the growth we get from Sawyer in this book, and how he faces his own physical battles. I thought it was *chef’s kiss* that he wanted Violet to be the one out there when he tried mounting. Lastly…do we even need to discuss Ridoc? He carried in this book. Not only is he the funniest and wittiest [enter making fun of Vi and Xaden’s arguments], but we get to see an incredibly protective side of him that warms your heart. I hate to say this with every fiber of my being…but she’s gotten us too attached to this side character. You know what that means. 🥺 I adore Cat so much in this book, which is something I wouldn’t have been able to say when we met her, but the arc is definitely there in Iron Flame. I was so happy to see her in a relationship…but I don’t think I can go there. I’m still in shock. ”Thank you.” NAH you can 🖕🏻 off Rebecca. I also adore Aaric, and Sloane, and Bodhi. Aaric just wants to be helpful, and then he manifests the most useful signet. He’s so cool. 🖤Xaden: I was completely down and heartbroken for his character arc in this book. Talk about Anakin in Revenge of the Sith vibes. Xaden is my guy, and somehow I was simultaneously devastated and thrilled every time he channeled. It was incredible to see the power he had at the end of the book. PROFESSOR RIORSON WILL NEVER LEAVE MY MIND. Duke!? Married to Violet!? Slamming Halden into the wall? And the way he just took down every single student at Basgaith on the mat without even moving? I don’t care what anyone says, his shadows matched with his inntinsic ability makes him the most powerful person. And I totally knew he saw Violet eyeing that silk in Deverelli…my heart🥺 💤Violet’s second signet…dare I say underwhelmed? I’m sure it’ll have a true purpose in the next books, but for now I’m not too impressed. Also, everyone developing second signets makes it not feel as special or incredible that Xaden had a second signet. I think it’s related to this quote, but still. ”The rarest of signets—those that rise once in a generation or century—have manifested concurrently with an equal twice in our records, both critical times in our history, but only once have the six most powerful walked the Continent simultaneously.” 🐲Dragons: The wit. The sarcasm. This book was even better with the dragon banter. Tairn is a top tier character for me; I love how he is exactly what Violet needs. Andarna…can I even talk about this? Caught me off guard big time. The way she just…left and came back, I don’t know what to make of it. I think Yarros has executed the romance/relationship progression through this series perfectly. The first book we get to see their obvious chemistry. This is to get everyone invested in them (which it does). The second book they obviously have to spend more time apart and they go through their frustrating phases of very poor communication - but ultimately they work things out and do much better. I think this is all exactly for this book, when Xaden is venin. They have to be able to be truthful and trusting of one another with his new power (although they still kept secrets but I mean, I think it’s time we stop expecting them to not). It’s frustrating to me that everyone is saying “what romance?” in Onyx Storm. Romance isn’t just breaking armoires and setting buildings on fire - it doesn’t always have to be about sex. With that being said, I honestly thought we got more scenes with the two of them than I anticipated after the Iron Flame finale. This book is showing us why they are meant to be together beyond the physical attraction and how they are willing to do anything to fight for one another, as well as the maturity that they developed that their relationship lacked in the prior books. I think this book is to make us BELIEVE that. Xaden says that Violet is who he serves above Tyrrendor, above Nevarre, and I believe it. I believe he means it. I don’t think he can be so far gone that he’d ever forget Violet. ”My loyalty is to Violet first above everything, everyone else.” ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ Also, please stop saying the loose ends are a cash grab; it’s literally a plot device. We aren’t supposed to feel like the book has been wrapped in a big bow before the final one; we are supposed to be left waiting and anticipating. All authors do this - it’s how you keep readers coming back to your series. I do have to say, despite how much I adore this series and loved this book, I don’t understand how there can be two more books. I just simply don’t. To me, this book was the equivalent of Empire of Storms in TOG - trying to get the alliances ready before Kingdom of Ash (I don’t count Tower of Dawn lol). Either the next book is a continuation of trying to get alliances and a cure, finding a cure and Xaden gets to come back to us (and him and Violet finally get a book to actually fully be together for the last one), or maybe it’s even a book about Xaden rising through the venin ranks. I don’t know - but I would rather just take one massive book like Kingdom of Ash because I just don’t know how there can be two more books (and I don’t want to wait). TWO. MORE. BOOKS. HOW. Once again no, this doesn’t mean it’s a cash grab; Yarros obviously has a plan. I’m just curious to the direction we are going to go. ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ ⋆༺𓆩⚔𓆪༻⋆ Okay folks, party’s over. There’s my hot take. One of the best high fantasies I’ve read. How do I leave this world I’ve been living in for 10 days… ————————— too emotional. review tomorrow 🫠

I am unwell. I cannot write more without spoilers and can’t materialize a coherent thought for a witty review. I need people to finish this because I need to talk about it. Rebecca Yarros, the menace you are.

** spoiler alert ** ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️.5 REBECCA HAS DONE IT AGAIN!!! I devoured this book so freaking fast, and it left me absolutely breathless in the best way possible. The pacing was chef’s kiss, fast, action-packed, and filled with high stakes that just kept climbing higher and higher. I was literally on the edge of my seat the entire time!✨🐉🖤 I loved seeing Violet step into her leadership role—it felt so empowering and natural for her character. Xaden was broody and on edge throughout, which totally made sense given everything he was dealing with. Their dynamic in this book felt raw, intense, and emotionally charged in all the right ways.. Things that shocked me (because WOW):🤯 - My heart goes out to Sawyer—STILL not over his leg; my jaw was on the floor. - Violet literally having a prince for a boyfriend before Xaden was elite! - her being a dreamwalker is SICK!!! (In a good way lol) - Xaden’s mom being alive with other children threw me for a LOOP. - Then her new baby daddy trying to kill them all? Psycho! - Violet defeating that queen in front of everyone was such a badass moment—go Violet! - Andarna meeting the other Irids and being rejected broke me. - Then the Irids coming to save the day, then take Andarna? INSANE. - Asher Sorrengail was into some deep stuff—he was definitely not just an “ordinary” scribe. - Panchek being the traitor? Did not see that coming; I had someone else pegged for sure. - RIP Quinn, we commend your soul to Malek -Imogen wiping Violet’s memories absolutely gagged me. - And now Violet and Xaden are married #Duke & Duchess?! I NEED to know what he’s up to!! Brain Dump / Unanswered questions :🧐 - Chapters from the dragons’ POVs (especially Andarna), PLEASE. - A prequel story about Lilith and Asher Sorrengail is an absolute MUST. - Why is Violet’s hair silver, and what really went down when she was born? I need clarity. - I was hoping Xaden’s venin situation would’ve been resolved in this book. What’s next for him? - Are Andarna and Violet bonded again or not? I need answers! - Where did Aetos slither off to? - Sloane’s signet intrigues me—she keeps lowkey saving the day, and I want more on her powers. - Aaric’s precog signet is such a dope ability. More of that, please! - Garrick has been flying under the radar with his second signet, and I NEED more info on that. - Ridoc’s signet needs to be explored as well because that little fruit trick he did was litty! - Can Malek return Liam to us? #RIP (I'm still not over that!) - And I lowkey feel like I need to go back and reread what Violet asked Imogen to do because the ending left me gobsmacked. - And is Xaden fully venin now? I HAVE SO MANY QUESTIONS. But overall this book gave me EVERYTHING—action, twists, heartbreak, and jaw-dropping revelations, and has ultimately left me desperate for the next installment. Rebecca Yarros truly knows how to keep readers hooked, and I’ll be counting down the days until the next book drops!✨🐉🖤

🖤⚔️🐉 ꒰ five stars ꒱ ⊹ ꒰ initial thoughts ⊹ oh. my. days. i feel so foolish for ever thinking that this book could disappoint me, because if anything, it did the opposite. my expectations were BLOWN away. i can’t remember the last time i’ve read a book like this. i don’t even know where to start, but let me just say: this definitely takes the cake as my favorite book that i’ve read this so far this year. granted, it’s also the only book i’ve read, but i think that still counts for something. but alas, let me try to break down all my thoughts on this book in this (probably extremely chaotic) review. i apologize in advance. ꒰ the characters ⊹ xaddie the baddie ୨୧ OH MY GOD MY SHAYLA. MY SHAYLAAAAA. gods, the shit that miss yarros over here is putting my man through is insane. like, not only did you give him the most traumatic backstory ever, but now you’re over here giving him MORE pain?? what did poor xaden do to her i swear 😭 but actually though, i feel like this entire book was just xaden getting beat up again and again and again until things basically became hopeless for him. ngl it feels so unfair because at this point i think bro just deserves a happy ending. i don’t think he can take much more of this. and i’ll be quite upset if he doesnt get some sort of peace in the fourth book because this whole “let’s make this character so tragic everyone is hurting for him” trope is getting real old. anyways, enough with the sad stuff. let’s move on to what really made xaden shine in this book for me: his personality. this entire series, his entire trademark is just being this dark brooding asshole who’s so ruthless he’ll kill you in a second. only violet really knows the softer, kinder soul that he hides behind that armor. that’s really what makes xaden such a good mmc in my eyes—i’m probably just basic asf, but the whole grumpy on the outside but soft on the inside trope does me IN. and seeing xaden finally embrace that side of him and start to relax with people outside violet really warmed my heart. he finally became at peace with himself (for a time, at least), and open to loving, and we really saw him start to improve, almost. i seriously admired his character growth in this book—he almost became a different person, but really, he just healed. she thor ୨୧ aka our resident diva, violet sorrengail. call it controversial, but she’s honestly still one of my favorite fmcs to date. i just love the trope of someone perceived as “weak” or constantly underestimated becomes the most powerful/strongest of them all. violet is such a role model and while she does make questionable choices throughout the series, i love that she has a good heart despite it all. she totally became a leader in this book and it was so heartwarming seeing her mature and step into her potential. she’s so inspirational and i love her. comedic side character TM ୨୧ ugh ridoc gamlyn, my bbg. my boy literally SHINED in this book, his humor is honestly unmatched (and tbh very similar to mine). but i loved that we also got to see his serious side, more of his depth and his character in general. people started taking him seriously for once which i LOVE. he’s probably my favorite character in the entire series, and if he dies? i will RIOT. my pink haired badass ୨୧ imogen cardulo is my literal wife. her pov chapters were EVERYTHING to me. idk guys, there’s just something about pink haired, lethal women that just do something for me. i can’t explain it. my goddess ୨୧ idk if it was just me, but i didn’t like rhiannon’s character in this. it could be that she just wasn’t in this book as much, but i feel like she’s putting leadership over her friends a lot and she’s not really as important. don’t get me wrong, i like her, but she’s not my favorite anymore. that one bitchass ex ୨୧ idc what anyone says, i fucking love her. always have and always will. end of story. the quest squad ୨୧ can i just say i absolutely LOVED their dynamic? their banter and dialogue was honestly my favorite part of the entire book. ꒰ the plot ⊹ new characters ୨୧ all the new characters being introduced was probably my least favorite part about this book. it was so hard to keep things straight, and very early on in the book i just decided to stop trying and let the names blur. i think rebecca is really overestimating her readers’ intelligence because girl, we cannot understand what you’re saying 😭 that being said, most of the characters weren’t even that important in the future, so it wasn’t that much of a big deal to me. new worlds ୨୧ it was so interesting seeing the quest squad venture out into the isles and see us explore new worlds. each isle had something interesting about it and it was so cool to also see the gods come into play a bit. most of this book was just a shit ton of worldbuilding and honestly it read to me as more of an epic fantasy than the fantasy romance that fourth wing was. you can clearly see the turn that the series is taking and where it’s planning to go in the future. ꒰ the romance ⊹ xadenvi ୨୧ incredible. swoonworthy. heartwarming. their love is literally EVERYTHING to me, and i do not understand the hate that they got in this book? yes, they don’t banter as much anymore and their relationship is more mature, but that’s to be expected. things are basically going to shit, and they don’t really have time for that anymore. plus, in my opinion, they’ve passed the whole flirting stage, and it was so nice to see them just be soft with each other the entire book. miradrake ୨୧ i’m literally obsessed with them. their dynamic is soo cute, and when they basically adopted broccoli?? i literally smiled SO hard, you don’t even know. i honestly ship them so hard and if they don’t get together in book four i’m going to be really sad. they deserve each other, honestly—plus their banter is priceless. sloanedain ୨୧ they’re literally the definition of enemies to lovers, dare i say more than xaden and violet? they’re dynamic is so cute, and begrudgingly, i can say that they both redeemed themselves in onyx storm, especially dain. i just think they’re perfect for each other. imogarrick ୨୧ sigh. let me just say…i do love a good slow burn 😉 catrager ୨୧ why. honestly. just why. ihy rebecca. ──────୨ৎ────── ⚔️ ꒰ note: the following section contains major spoilers for the entire empyrean series and all chapters of onyx storm. please, please, PLEASE do not read further if you have not finished onyx storm in its entirety. you have been warned. ꒱ ⚔️ ꒰ the ending ⊹ oh gods. i knew the ending was going to be heartbreaking, but i definitely wasn’t expecting this. my heart literally breaks for xaden and sgaeyl. they did not deserve this injustice. and xaden giving up his soul for her…i cant anymore y’all 😭 my only hope is that violet and xaden can connect through dreams, so maybe there’s some hope for him left? i’ll just say, if xaden doesn’t end this series with an HEA, i will scream. and throw the book. and contemplate my life. i’ve become way too attached to these characters to watch them all die at the end, PLEASE rebecca. ꒰ favorite spoiler moments ⊹ જ⁀➴ when violet realizes that xaden is a professor જ⁀➴ xaden’s interactions with the quest squad (especially ridoc) જ⁀➴ violet’s second signet reveal (dream walking) જ⁀➴ jealous xaden + halden + violet dynamic જ⁀➴ xaden’s mom being alive (i was heartbroken for xaden) જ⁀➴ the nickname “love” instead of “violence” (iykyk) જ⁀➴ violet beating the queen and saving xaden like the queen she is જ⁀➴ andarna breaking the bond…what can i say, i love good angst :( જ⁀➴ XADENVI MARRIAGE, although i hate the circumstances that led to it ꒰ quotes ⊹ °˖➴ “to the ones who don’t run with the popular crowd, the ones who get caught reading under their desks, the ones who feel like they never get invited, included, or represented. get your leathers. we have dragons to ride.” °˖➴ “i’m jealous of the armor that holds you when i can’t, the sheets on your bed that caress your skin every night, and the blades that feel your hands.” °˖➴ “she is warmth and light and air and love.” °˖➴ “and gods help her, my love, i’m afraid our daughter has atrocious taste in men.” °˖➴ “she really, honestly hasn’t thought about you. at least not since the second she set eyes on me.” °˖➴ “i could reach the rank of maven, lead armies of dark wielders against everyone we care for, and watch every vein in my body turn red as i channel all the power in the continent, and i would still love you. what i did doesn’t change that. i’m not sure anything can.” ↳ please, rebecca. do not do this. poor xaden’s been through enough. ꒰ final thoughts ⊹ looking back on it, i’m 99% sure this is my favorite book in the series. i adore the turn that it’s taking, and i’ve completely fell in love with all of the characters. i’m so emotionally invested in this series, i have no idea how i’m going to wait two years for the next book. it’s crazy to think about, but i’m thankful that rebecca is finally taking a break she deserves. i guess i’ll just be waiting on the edge of my seat until then 😭 it probably doesn’t deserve it, but i’m giving it anyways: five stars for this book! i seriously cannot wait for the next one.

—— 𝟻 ✰ 𝕤𝕥𝕒𝕣𝕤. 🩶⚡️ ❝𝒯𝑜 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝑜𝓃𝑒𝓈 𝓌𝒽𝑜 𝒹𝑜𝓃’𝓉 𝓇𝓊𝓃 𝓌𝒾𝓉𝒽 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓅𝑜𝓅𝓊𝓁𝒶𝓇 𝒸𝓇𝑜𝓌𝒹, 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝑜𝓃𝑒𝓈 𝓌𝒽𝑜 𝑔𝑒𝓉 𝒸𝒶𝓊𝑔𝒽𝓉 𝓇𝑒𝒶𝒹𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓊𝓃𝒹𝑒𝓇 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝒾𝓇 𝒹𝑒𝓈𝓀𝓈, 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝑜𝓃𝑒𝓈 𝓌𝒽𝑜 𝒻𝑒𝑒𝓁 𝓁𝒾𝓀𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓎 𝓃𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇 𝑔𝑒𝓉 𝒾𝓃𝓋𝒾𝓉𝑒𝒹, 𝒾𝓃𝒸𝓁𝓊𝒹𝑒𝒹, 𝑜𝓇 𝓇𝑒𝓅𝓇𝑒𝓈𝑒𝓃𝓉𝑒𝒹. 𝒢𝑒𝓉 𝓎𝑜𝓊𝓇 𝓁𝑒𝒶𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇𝓈. 𝒲𝑒 𝒽𝒶𝓋𝑒 𝒹𝓇𝒶𝑔𝑜𝓃𝓈 𝓉𝑜 𝓇𝒾𝒹𝑒.❞ 📖: 𝐎𝐧𝐲𝐱 𝐒𝐭𝐨𝐫𝐦 𝐛𝐲 𝐑𝐞𝐛𝐞𝐜𝐜𝐚 𝐘𝐚𝐫𝐫𝐨𝐬 「 ”A storm is coming...and not everyone can survive its wrath.”」 ❝𝐼 𝓌𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝓃𝑜𝓉 𝒹𝒾𝑒 𝓉𝑜𝒹𝒶𝓎. 𝐼 𝓌𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝓈𝒶𝓋𝑒 𝒽𝒾𝓂.❞ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: ★★★★★ ꜱᴘɪᴄᴇ: 🌶️🌶️ ɴᴏᴡ ᴘʟᴀʏɪɴɢ: 📻 ᴏɴʏx ꜱᴛᴏʀᴍ (ʀᴇʙᴇᴄᴄᴀ’ꜱ ᴠᴇʀꜱɪᴏɴ) ᴘʟᴀʏʟɪꜱᴛ ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ʏᴏᴜ ʀᴇᴄᴏᴍᴍᴇɴᴅ?: ʏᴇꜱ! ʀᴇᴀᴅ ɪꜰ ʏᴏᴜ ʟɪᴋᴇ: 🩶 ᴅʀᴀɢᴏɴꜱ ⚡️ ʜɪɢʜ ꜰᴀɴᴛᴀꜱʏ 🩶 ꜰᴏʀʙɪᴅᴅᴇɴ ʟᴏᴠᴇ ⚡️ ꜱʜᴀᴅᴏᴡ ᴅᴀᴅᴅɪᴇꜱ 🩶 ᴛᴏᴜᴄʜ ʜᴇʀ ᴀɴᴅ ᴅɪᴇ ⚡️ ᴘᴏᴡᴇʀꜰᴜʟ ꜰᴍᴄ & ᴍᴍᴄ 🩶 ɢᴇᴛᴛɪɴɢ ʏᴏᴜʀ ʜᴇᴀʀᴛ ꜱᴛᴏᴍᴘᴇᴅ ᴏɴ ⚡️ ᴄʟɪꜰꜰʜᴀɴɢᴇʀꜱ ᴛʜᴀᴛ ᴍᴀᴋᴇ ʏᴏᴜ ᴛʜʀᴏᴡ ʏᴏᴜʀ ʙᴏᴏᴋ ❝𝑀𝓎 𝒷𝑜𝒹𝓎. 𝑀𝓎 𝓈𝑜𝓊𝓁. 𝑀𝓎 𝓅𝑜𝓌𝑒𝓇 𝒾𝓈 𝒶𝓁𝓁 𝓇𝒾𝑔𝒽𝓉 𝒽𝑒𝓇𝑒. 𝒴𝑜𝓊 𝓁𝑜𝓋𝑒 𝓂𝑒. 𝒴𝑜𝓊 𝓌𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝓃𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇 𝒽𝓊𝓇𝓉 𝓂𝑒.❞ ⚠️⚠️𝐒𝐏𝐎𝐈𝐋𝐄𝐑𝐒 𝐀𝐇𝐄𝐀𝐃: 𝐏𝐑𝐎𝐂𝐄𝐄𝐃 𝐖𝐈𝐓𝐇 𝐂𝐀𝐔𝐓𝐈𝐎𝐍⚠️⚠️ 💭 This is going to be a different review than my normal paragraph format because my I simply cannot fully compute what I just read so bullet points it is. *I might add more as my brain continues to marinate with what I experienced) ▫️Violet has come such a long way from the first book I’m so proud of our girl 🥹 ▪️I get the Ridoc love now ▫️Violet & Xaden’s relationship in this book is *chef’s kiss* 🥵🤌🏼 ▪️Andarna getting shunned by her kind & then leaving! But then coming back?! Does anyone know why she randomly showed up there at the end? ▫️My love for Imogen grew so much, the girl can’t catch a break ▪️Not only did we get 𝐏𝐑𝐎𝐅𝐄𝐒𝐒𝐎𝐑 Riorson, but excuse me, now 𝐃𝐔𝐊𝐄 𝐎𝐅 𝐓𝐘𝐑𝐑𝐄𝐍𝐃𝐎𝐑?🧎🏼‍♀️ ▫️Bodhi can get it ▪️ Violet’s second signet being a dream walker is SO DAMN COOL. I was not underwhelmed at all. Also, for my Marvel/Scarlet Witch fans, did anyone think of Multiverse of Madness right away? “𝘿𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙢𝙬𝙖𝙡𝙠𝙞𝙣𝙜, 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙝𝙮𝙥𝙤𝙘𝙧𝙞𝙩𝙚!” ▫️I want a chapter (or a few) dedicated to Scaegyl & Tairn’s relationship. I love Scaegyl she’s such a bad bitch ▪️We love a Dain redemption arc! ▫️ “𝒲𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝒹𝒾𝒹 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒹𝑜?!” “𝒲𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒶𝓈𝓀𝑒𝒹 𝓂𝑒 𝓉𝑜.” 𝐑𝐄𝐁𝐄𝐂𝐂𝐀 🗣️🗣️🗣️🗣️🗣️ 💭 Now listen, I’ve seen a lot of hate circulating around this book on GoodReads, even some people hate reading it which I will never understand, why would you waste your time reading a book you hate? Go outside. Take a walk. Touch some grass. Do something more valuable with your time. I’ll be the first to admit, Onyx Storm is nowhere near a perfect book; it was confusing as hell, there’s plot holes/inconsistencies (is Lewellen a place or person?) & the ending was total chaos. But between all the emotions it made me feel & the characters I’ve fallen in love with is why it’s a five star read in my heart. ❝𝑀𝓎 𝓁𝑜𝓎𝒶𝓁𝓉𝓎 𝒾𝓈 𝓉𝑜 𝒱𝒾𝑜𝓁𝑒𝓉 𝒻𝒾𝓇𝓈𝓉 𝒶𝒷𝑜𝓋𝑒 𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇𝓎𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓃𝑔, 𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇𝓎𝑜𝓃𝑒 𝑒𝓁𝓈𝑒.❞ ✒️ᝰ Qᴜᴏᴛᴇꜱ: (cont.) “𝐸𝓋𝑒𝓃 𝓌𝒽𝑒𝓃 𝐼'𝓂 𝓃𝑜𝓉 𝑒𝓃𝓉𝒾𝓇𝑒𝓁𝓎...𝓂𝑒, 𝓌𝒽𝒶𝓉𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇 𝐼 𝒶𝓂 𝓈𝓉𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝒸𝓇𝒶𝓋𝑒𝓈 𝓎𝑜𝓊, 𝓃𝑒𝑒𝒹𝓈 𝓎𝑜𝓊, 𝑜𝓃𝓁𝓎 𝓌𝒶𝓃𝓉𝓈 𝓎𝑜𝓊.” 𝐓𝐡𝐞 𝐄𝐦𝐩𝐲𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐧 𝐒𝐞𝐫𝐢𝐞𝐬 🐉 𝙵𝚘𝚞𝚛𝚝𝚑 𝚆𝚒𝚗𝚐 (#𝟷) 𝟻★ 🔥 𝙸𝚛𝚘𝚗 𝙵𝚕𝚊𝚖𝚎 (#𝟸) 𝟻★ ⚡️ 𝙾𝚗𝚢𝚡 𝚂𝚝𝚘𝚛𝚖 (#𝟹) 𝟻★

professor xaddy 🧎‍♀️

Book four pls

Legal suspense at its best! We have a corrupt judge that gets tangled in a game of cat and rat. Could he have been found out? After all this time? He is arrogant and worried (with good reason). "For the first time in his life, he felt like he was on the run". Murder here, murder there, seems like everywhere? What is the connection? Someone knows....... a lot! I really enjoyed this one and was reading it simultaneously with Bone Deep, the true crime novel that highlights massive corruption in the legal system which made it seem even more credible. The investigators are on his trail, trying to stay off his deadly list. There are some suspenseful moments and a few nail-biting scenes as they closed in, this made for a fantastic legal thriller! I read the first in this series, but this could be a standalone. If he writes a third, I'll be in line for it. If you enjoy strong female leads, brilliant characterization, twisty "gotcha" moments and the behind the scenes hunt for a creepy psychopath, you may enjoy it as much as I did. Own a copy/ Feb 2022

What can I say about John Grisham that hasn't already been said a hundred times over. He really is the master of the legal thriller and The Judge's List is just more evidence of that. His books always draw me in from the first few pages and leave me needing to read more. I binged this book in one lazy Saturday at home during lockdown and I am not sorry about it. I will read anything this man writes and have been doing so for many many years now. The Judge's List sees us reunited with Lacey Stolz from The Whistler. It is 3 years later and she is almost 40 and trying to work out what she wants from life. Her job at the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct is not exciting her anymore and she is contemplating a change. That is until a mysterious phone call leads to case like no other she has ever worked on. The FBJC does not do murder cases, but there has never been an allegation that a sitting judge was a serial killer before. We know from early on who the killer is, a very clever and cunning judge who has a list of people who have wronged him in his life. He is patient and doesn't leave any evidence behind. But somebody has figured him out now. It is a page turner, and you will not see the ending coming. I certainly didn't. It was a WHAT moment at midnight that made me applaud the brain of John Grisham. Never a dull moment as we watch Lacey and her team try to get the evidence to take the judge down. Thank you to Hachette Australia for sending me an advanced copy of this book to read. Out on October 19th.

More Lacy Stoltz. More Lacy Stoltz. More Lacy Stoltz. This second book in the Whistler series gives Lacy a tricky dilemma to untangle. A woman wants to remain anonymous while reporting a sitting judge guilty of multiple murders. A serial killer is on the loose and this sociopath has on-line skills that keep him ahead of law enforcement while highly capable of tracking down his victims. Who will be next? Jeri Crosby, the woman who has been tracking him since her father's death twenty years ago? Lacy Stoltz, the interim director for the Board on Judicial Conduct? This rises to the top of the pack for me in the field of Grisham's novels. I enjoy a woman protagonist and in this one we get two. There is plenty of cloak and dagger as well as a thrilling game of cat and mouse in multiple contexts. Finally, this is a legal thriller without any political strings attached. It is just downright entertaining. Mr. Grisham, please give us another Lacy Stoltz book soon. With the future she has planned, there would be many ways for her to stumble upon another legal dilemma to untangle. A big thank you to Doubleday and NetGalley for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.

This book is filled with all the things that I love from Grisham… A tight story, a page turning legal thriller, a desire to see justice prevail… Especially...When, well, I can’t say... Because...Then I would be spoiling it – But...Then again, maybe the title does in a way. No, don’t try and guess it – just read it! By the way, you need not have read The Whistler to read this one. It can be a stand-alone.

I have read a few books by this author (The Firm, The Partner, The Broker, and The King of Torts) but that was way before I have a blog so I don’t have links to my reviews. I believe I loved them all including this one. I was hooked to this story. I haven’t read a book where a judge was accused of murder before. The characters were well developed and well liked. The main character somewhat worried about herself being unmarried with no kids approaching 40 but at the same time enjoyed her freedom and her own space. I have a friend in that situation and I know the struggle. The other character, Margie lead an exciting and lonely life of collecting information from her father’s killer. I liked that the killer’s view appeared as Lacy investigated Kronke, a victim. It explained how the event happened without speculation. This book followed Lacy, 39 years old lawyer as she received an anonymous phone call from a woman who referred to herself as Margie, 46. She wanted a private meeting with Lacy to ask for her professional opinions. Lacy, for 12 years, has been specializing in investigating judges who are accused of wrongdoing. Margie said an active judge killed her dad among many others and hoping if Lacy will take on her complaint. Lacy was bored with her current job and thought that this new accusation sounded intriguing. Accusing a judge of murder is rare. Lacy decided to hear her out. Lacy has an older brother Gunther and an FBI boyfriend named Allie. There’s a surprise view of the killer. There were many views after that including Margie, which was not her real name because she feared for her safety. She had been stalking her father’s killer for 20 years and knew that the killer had been killing up to 8 victims. She hoped that Lacy can send the killer to jail. The Judge’s List was well written and a fast paced read. A little too many point of views than I care for but I do liked the detailed view of the killer and the persons chasing the killer. I liked that the killer was created as a smart person, one who stayed a couple of steps ahead of the police. It was thrilling to read when the stalking was reversed, the killer knew he was being stalked. Definitely interesting also to see how technology was utilized for good and for bad. The ending was good and I didn’t guess the course of action. This book has good diversity. Although it’s a book 2 in a series, it can be read as a standalone. I haven’t read a legal thriller in awhile but sure won’t be my last. I recommend everyone to read this book! xoxo, Jasmine at www.howusefulitis.com for more details Many thanks to Doubleday Books for the opportunity to read and review. Please be assured that my opinions are honest.

Does John Grisham ever write a bad book? NO!!! A psychopath is on the loose and this book kept me up late into the night and I could not put it down. This is apparently the 2nd book of “the Whistler” series by John Grisham. I somehow missed out on reading book #1 but was able to keep up with this newest book just fine. Jeri who’s father was murdered 20 years ago wants to prove a “FL judge” killed her dad among many others. Now can she prove it??

4.5 rounded up to five as it’s the best Grisham I’ve read in a long time! Grisham writes like Grisham of old. Strong on the legal details, excellent characters (even If some are a little less likeable) and a detailed story arc. A real underdog taking on the most powerful - judges- in a small prejudicial town. Totally worth reading!

I loved this 2nd book in John Grisham's "The Whistler" series!

A gripping continuation of John Grisham's The Whistler series.The Judge’s List by John Grisham is a chilling legal thriller that follows an investigation into a sitting judge who may be a serial killer. With a tense, slow-burn pace and sharp twists, it’s a dark and compelling read that keeps you guessing until the end. I loved the very unique and unsettling premise, a judge, sworn to uphold the law is suspected of being a calculating serial killer. The tension builds as investigator Lacy Stoltz gets closer to the truth, knowing her target is smart, powerful, and always one step ahead. This chilling cat-and-mouse dynamic keeps the suspense high and the reader hooked.

This one, IMHO, is the author at his best. Loved it, hated to put it down and was upset that keeping my husband fed and the need for sleep got in the way of polishing it off in one sitting. It's actually the second in a series featuring attorney Lacy Stoltz, but it stands alone quite well. I say that because although I read the first book, The Whistler, it was so long ago (2016) that I don't remember a thing except that I thoroughly enjoyed it as well. Here, Lacy is working for the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct, which investigates allegations against members of the judiciary, and has an FBI boyfriend named Allie Pacheco. Their relationship is serious, but so far it hasn't progressed to a ring-on-the-finger stage. One day, Lacy gets a call from a woman who calls herself Margie; she wants Lacy's agency to look into a judge she insists murdered her father years ago, when the judge wasn't even on the bench. But wait, there's more; Margie - real name Jeri Crosby - claims to have some evidence that her father isn't the judge's only victim (far from it, in fact). Even though Jeri says several other victims had unsatisfactory interactions with the judge, thereby providing him with motive, Lacy is skeptical (lawyers, after all, rely on actual evidence, which is noticeably missing in all these instances). Lacy also makes it clear that if evidence is found, her agency will have to turn the case over to the police and/or FBI - and Jeri's identity, which she's intent on keeping private for fear of her life - most likely would be revealed. As the story progresses, readers also get a glimpse into what the judge himself is up to, and one thing is clear: He's guilty as all get-out. Unfortunately, he's also smart, manipulative and has no intention of stopping until he makes his way through the list of people he believes have wronged him over the years. As circumstances in Lacy's agency open up new possibilities, she agrees to at least look into the case with help from her task force members Darren and Sadelle. Once they start delving into past murders (all with at least one common M.O.) and the victims' connections to the judge, it becomes clear they're dealing with a serial killer. Now, they must collect enough evidence to file a formal complaint on behalf of Jeri (under a fictitious name). But that also will mean the judge knows they're on to him, raising the question of how far he will go to avoid charges and protect his good name. In fact, it's a pretty sure bet it will be far enough that lives that aren't on the judge's original list find themselves on it now.

John Grisham stories never disappoint me. The judge’s List is a murder mayhem that hooks you from the beginning. I haven’t read the first book, but this one can be read as a standalone. In this book, judges are being investigated for the crime they commit in their jurisdiction. Lacy Stoltz the protagonist has a very interesting character. She gets involved in this investigation when a terrified woman approaches her with some information about a sitting judge who is a serial killer. At points, I felt a bit disappointed that Lacy was so skeptical and didn’t care. But I guess that was one of the reasons I really liked the book. It reminded me of his book “The Firm” which was published in 1991. That is one of my most favorite Gresham books that later was turned into a movie was played with a talented cast of characters. I can’t wait to see this turning into a movie.

Put me in, coach. I'm READY 🖤 Navessa Allen once again proved she does not come to play. 🔥 Let’s get one thing straight: I was ready, and this book still managed to knock me off my feet. Junior? Sir. Mouthwatering doesn’t even begin to cover it. The man could read a grocery list, and I’d still be fanning myself. He walked onto the page and immediately raised my blood pressure. He’s got emotional depth, actual communication skills, and the kind of chemistry with Lauren that had me pausing the audiobook just to scream into a pillow. And Lauren? Queen behavior. She knew what she wanted, didn’t play games, and PLOT TWIST, she actually communicated. Revolutionary! The way she handled everything with grace and actual logic? Bless her. No wild accusations, no unnecessary drama - just a woman handling her business and her emotions like a pro. We don’t do messy misunderstandings here, babes. The angst? Delicious. The spice? Plenty. (HELLO PHOTOBOOTH & CONFESSIONAL 🥵🔥) Enough to fog up your sunglasses, but not so much that it drowns out the emotional beats or character growth. It's the perfect ratio of steam and story. Like a well-balanced cocktail, you want to savor and then order again. Oh, and the audiobook? Top tier. I hit play, and suddenly, I was in a scandalous trance with no escape. The narrators understood the assignment and then some. Now, please excuse me while I go stare longingly into space and pretend I'm in a photobooth with my fictional soulmate. Just kidding... kinda.

2 words… F*CK YES I offered up my own body parts to get this arc.. 100% worth it. I might perish as a result, but I will die happy knowing I at least got to read this before I expired.

✨SMUTTY PERFECTION. KINKY EXCELLENCE✨ Mafia bad boy crawling & BEGGING for his former fling turned camgirl…and she slowly drags his soul deep into the kink sphere! “Literally everything is a kink if you think about it long enough.” ✨📷✨👅✨📷✨ Nico is obsessed with his former nerdy high school girlfriend TURNED CAMGIRL. He’s been stalking her for a decade but he can’t wait to shed his mafia skin and dive head & dick first into the KINK SPHERE. That is if Lauren can forgive his past mistakes & give him a second chance at kinky redemption 👀 I WAS OBSESSED with this dynamic! Nico is a straight up gangster but for Lauren he crawls on his knees with apologetic desperation . Lauren holds all the control as she’s way more experienced in the kink scene but he is so eager to explore. 📷 he begs & apologizes on his KNEES while fingering her *best apology I’ve every read or will read* 👅 incredibly sex positive 📷 voyeurism & exhibitionism kink *i was gasping and salivating* 👅 desecration of a church confession booth 📷 kink club madness Will I ever recover from Nico’s character? Who knows. The man held so many multitudes from violent killings & blackmail to full on giddy adoration of Lauren. But what really did it for me was his undying support of Lauren’s work & his secure masculinity…he had no problem with kneeling🧎🏽‍♂️ This was so much more than JUST flawless smuttiness! The LGBTQ+ and sex work representation was written with knowledgable insights & incredibly sex positive 🏳️‍🌈✨ I adored Lauren’s character & her dedication to her craft and the kink scene. Also girlie pop was really good at it!! independent fmc second chance sex positive LGBTQ+ rep voyeur/exhibitionism kink stalking kink play mafia dealings HEA

oh HELL yeah Idk how Navessa did it - but this one managed to top Lights Out for me. Honestly probably bc I love mafia romances so much. One scene in particular - confessional booth!!!! - had my jaw on the floor. Think I highlighted the entire chapter. Things to know: MMC with Mafia Ties He’s ripped & covered in tattoos He’s been in love with her forever She (essentially) has an OnlyFans Forced proximity Possessive + Protective MMC Cameos from Josh & Aly from Lights Out This book is absolutely addicting.

Dark Hours is quite possibly the best book Connelly has penned in recent years and yet I was uncomfortable reading it. He cut too close to the bone on this one. Dark hours referrers to the dark hours of graveyard shift, aka The Late Show a title from another Ballard novel. Connelly doesn’t pull any punches and describes the aftermath of societies the current upheaval; the defund the police campaign, and Covid. Usually I don’t finish a book if there are political messages or even undertones. I read to be entertained, to escape the world I live in, not to rehash it. But in this case—it’s Connelly for crying out loud. I read the whole thing. In the story there are two crimes being investigated but they take a backseat to the dark tone of the book. Both crimes are particularly heinous and double-down on that same noir mood. Connelly had to have done it on purpose and by my estimation it was masterfully done. Ballard is more cynical and callouses than before with little patience for fellow employees, no sympathy for what they are going through only judgement. Ballard’s dog is even killed off. Yikes. The absolute brilliant part of this book is the last two pages. Connelly hits us again and again with darkness then right at the end at the bleakest point he shows us a little light. Great read but not for the faint of heart. It will make you want to curl up on your couch with a half-gallon of cookies and cream ice cream. David Putnam the author of the Bruno Johnson series.

Review to be posted to blog: books-are-a-girls-best-friend.com Nowadays, times appear rougher than they used to be. Danger shows itself in different ways. Here and now, you can’t always see what’s right in front of your face simply because everyone is hiding behind a mask and Covid is ever-present. Never one to shy away from reality, Michael Connelly’s new novel, The Dark Hours brings it home. It’s in The Dark Hours that Detective Renee Ballard does her best work. She is a night owl and she loves flying solo. When a homicide occurs on her watch in the Late Shift, she wants it, even if the investigation should go to the detectives in the Hollywood Division. Once she dives into the case, what she finds, makes her want it even more. Her case links to an old unsolved crime, a cold case of retired Detective Harry Bosch’s, and wouldn’t you know it, the two decide to work together to solve them both. Ballard, of course, investigates other crimes as well, one of which involves several women assaulted in their homes, in the middle of the night, by a group called The Midnight Men, which brings about a different type of danger altogether. This was a nail-biter, to say the least! A very well-written, well-done police procedural, which took place during the pandemic. Something very few authors even attempt. I truly appreciated the care that Michael Connelly took, to center a police procedural in and around the pandemic and give major kudos to him for that. What I love most about this series is the camaraderie between Ballard and Bosch which warms my heart. If you know me, you know how much I love these characters, Harry Bosch specifically. I could, in fact, wax poetic about my love for Harry Bosch (and have, in many a book review in this series, lol). While I wish that Bosch took a more prominent role here, I still adored this novel and love the character of Renee Ballard. It's clear that there will be some changes in store for both of these characters and I look forward to seeing where life takes them. A huge thank you to Little Brown and Company and NetGalley for the arc. Thank you for always being so generous in feeding my Harry Bosch obsession (lol). Published on Goodreads, Instagram, and Twitter.

This is the 23rd book in the Harry Bosch series by author Michael Connelly but is the character Renee Ballard features just as prominently. Michael Connelly is probably my favourite author so I was eager to read this and not surprisingly read it in one sitting. All the usual ingredients are there, great characters, interesting plot and expertly written. LAPD Detective Renée Ballard and ex detective Harry Bosch team up to try and solve two cases where investigation appear to have hit a brick wall. In Hollywood on New Year’s Eve Ballard is called to a crime scene where an auto shop owner has been fatally hit by a bullet in the middle of a crowded street party. Ballard’s investigation leads her to look into another unsolved murder that was previously worked by Detective Harry Bosch. Together Ballard and Bosch try to solve the shooting and search for a two rapists who have been called ‘the Midnight Men’ and team up to terrorise the public committing awful crimes. 400 pages went so quick as I raced through this novel, fast paced full of action and I loved every minute of it, I just wished there were another 400 pages.

As one of my favourite authors, a new Michael Connelly book is like Christmas come early for me. His books were some of the first police procedural books that I ever read, thanks to my dad who thought I would like them. And he was right. All these years later and Harry Bosch is my all time favourite fictional detective. There was a happy dance happening when I opened this bookmail in the middle of lockdown in Sydney 2021. A very big thank you to Allen and Unwin, who understand my obsession with all things Michael Connelly. This is the 4th Renee Ballard book and I am liking her more and more each book. She is one tough cookie, working the Late Show (or graveyard shift) for the LAPD in Hollywood. She sees the more hidden and darker side of the city and that is the way that she likes it. This book starts on new years eve 2020 during the pandemic. It has been a tough year with lockdowns, department politics, Black Lives Matter and the scrutiny of the police force as a whole. On the job is now more dangerous than it has ever been. As always with a Connelly book, there is alot going on. Renee is called to the scene of a homicide early on new years day. She wants to hold on to the case and gives it everything she has. When she finds a link to an old case that her friend and mentor, Harry Bosch worked on, the pair team up once again to hunt down the killer. While she is doing this, she is also working on the Midnight Men case where women are being in attacked in her own home. A serious page turner, The Dark Hours shows the lesser seen side of the law. Renee is not one to stick to the rules and probably why she gets on with Harry so well. They are a team that will never give up and really care about the victims of the crimes. They question the system and it is not always taken well by the higher ups. It will come as no suprise to anybody that this was a 5 star read for me and will be one of my favourite books of 2021. Do yourself a favour and pick up a Connelly book, sooner rather than later. The Dark Hours is released November 9th.

It's New Year's Eve, 2020. LAPD detective Renee Ballard is, along with about every active-duty officer in the Los Angeles area, out on the streets. New Years is apparently a holiday rife with violence and idiots committing crimes, so the police are always out in force. Right out of the gate, minutes after the ball drops, Ballard and her partner are called to a potential homicide. An auto shop owner is killed by a stray bullet during a raucous block party. It could just be an accident, but when the victim is discovered to have a background with one of LA's deadliest Latin gangs, the focus of the investigation changes. Ballard and her partner have also been investigating a string of rapes, committed by two men in ski masks. A new victim provides some new clues which could help. Ballard's plate being full, she asks Harry Bosch---now a private detective---for help. "The Dark Hours" is the fourth Ballard book and the 23rd Bosch book. Author Michael Connelly could spend the rest of his career writing nothing but Ballard-Bosch novels and I'd be happy.

I don’t think you can beat a Connelly for the characters and detailed police procedural descriptions. Lucky to pick up 2 books at the local Charity shop. This one and the one that follows in hardback. A discerning reader must have moved into the area. Ballard is similar to Bosch. A loner, dog lover and entirely focussed on doing a great job. In the last book I read she was living on the beach. Surfing, walking her dog and working the midnight shift. In this story her dog has passed and she is living in a condo. But still working nights. Two stories in this book. One about a pair of rapists - ‘The Midnight Men’ and the other about the murder of an ex gang member. Set in Covid times so Ballard wearing her mask and dragging Harry off to get his jab. Thankful that I still have more Connelly’s to read👍

Michael Connelly again delivers fantastic read, the third in the Ballard Bosch series, this one is centred on Renee Ballard with Harry Bosch called in for a supporting role. Ballard still working the dark hours(the night shift) as a punishment, it actually suits her, although she works the small hours with an unmotivated and often absent partner. When a murder happens on her shift and the murder squad are busy with another case she temporarily runs with it until she has to hand it over. When she links it to an unsolved legacy case she calls Harry Bosch in to help her. She is also working on an unusual double rapist case where two men are breaking into houses around midnight and raping women. This case is the meat of the book so to speak and quite sinister yet intriguing. Set during the pandemic with the back drop of the Black Lives Matter movement and general distrust of the police, Connelly delivers an utterly compelling and complex read. Many plates are being spun by the author but he keeps them all spinning perfectly in this multi story tale. Ballard, taking centre stage here, is a superb and stubborn character. A strong and driven woman, she is allowed to shine here as Bosch plays second fiddle to her. I was all in with this one from first page to last. The more I read the more I realized the title of the book had many many meanings. Dark, current, atmospheric and ultimately satisfying, Connelly shows no sign of dropping his standards of putting out some of the best police procedurals/thrillers out there today. Get your hands on a copy if you can. Thanks to the publisher for the ARC through Netgalley.

Another absolutely outstanding Harry Bosch/Renee Ballard book by Michael Connelly. The plot of this one involves a team of two serial rapists preying on seemingly random women. Ballard and Bosch team up to find the rapists. As usual, the criminals are smart but Bosch and Ballard are smarter. As always with Michael Connelly, the genius is in the painstakingly accurate details and slew of intricate puzzle pieces that come together perfectly. For my money, no crime writer is more authentic and intelligent than Michael Connelly. Killer mystery, clues, procedural details, interrogation and of course plot. I loved the developing relationship between Bosch and Ballard, as well as their growing disillusionment with the LAPD, while still demonstrating the best skills the highest level of detectives at the police department can provide. As a dog lover, my heart was extra warmed by the addition of a rescue dog named Pinto to the team. Five shiny stars to my favorite detective Harry Bosch and my growing second favorite, Renee Ballard. Many thanks to Little, Brown, the author and NetGalley for the ARC of this first class mystery.

Connelly never disappoints. He is more in tune with police work, police culture, and police characters than any other writer, except possibly Joseph Wambaugh, who really was an LA cop. It was satisfying to me to learn the revolution against police has worked the same in LA as it has in Minneapolis. The death of George Floyd in the custody of the Minneapolis Police sparked the movement, and in Minneapolis I think we sometimes muse that we are the only city who has contempt and revulsion for their police. Connelly sets me straight: LA police are quitting or spending their shifts avoiding conflict exactly the same as Minneapolis police. Not Renee Ballard and Harry Bosch. They care about victims and work the cases, even when the LA police bureaucracy resist more aggressively than the bad guys. Clever plotting, unforgettable characters, and relentless, realistic police work drive this novel.

THE DARK HOURS is Michael Connelly’s best novel in years. It is an excellent police procedural but more than just a police procedural. Connelly looks at the current policing situation, and the local environment, with clear journalistic eyes, turning the background for the criminal investigations into an explicit observation of Los Angeles today. The primary story contains two cases — a pair of serial rapists working together (called the “midnight men”) and a murder that was meant to look like an accident. Renee Ballard is working the serial rapist case on New Years Eve when she is asked to call what appears to be the “accidental” death of a man that she almost immediately recognizes as a murder. It is the murder that takes her to Harry Bosch, because the bullet casing ties it to one of his old unsolved cases. This is definitely a Renee Ballard novel. Bosch helps her tie the pieces together on the murder case and provides backup support when she gets a lead on the midnight men case, but Ballard is the book’s main protagonist. As always, Connelly provides excellent descriptions of the routine details involved in running a police investigation. But it is the background that makes this more than just another police procedural. Sixty years ago, I lived in the Los Angeles area where these cases unfold, and so I can strongly visualize the changes to the environment that Connelly so vividly describes, changes fuelled by the opioid crisis and magnified by the pandemic. This is the first book I’ve read that so accurately depicts these horrors. The novel is near perfect. The only criticism I have is that Ballard seems, to me, to think too much like a male. Yes, she’s tough, but lots of tough women now appear in crime books, and they have never left me with the niggling doubt that the author doesn’t have an accurate grasp on how females think. It may be just me — I had a hard time putting a finger on any one aspect of Ballard’s behaviour that made me question her psychological gender. Maybe it is how she covers up for her coworker who is a slacker. Females treat female coworkers differently than men treat male coworkers.

Another really good book by Michael Connelly. I love all his characters. This one is Harry Bosch & Renee Ballard, working together again. It also takes place during the pandemic which is interesting because a mask is always required. This is a mix-up of two cases Renee is working on and Harry who is retired helps her out. One of them is the search to find a group called The Midnight Men and the other a supposed accident which of course turned out to be a homicide. Definitely recommend as always. Like I said great characters.

As an avid reader, it's been interesting to me that authors of many of the books I've read over the past couple of years that are set in the present somehow manage to totally avoid what's going on in the world - most notably, the COVID-19 pandemic. A couple have set the time frame slightly before or slightly after, while others simply avoid the issue and carry on with their stories as if it didn't exist. Now comes a story that hits it - and other political goings-on - square on the nose (or more accurately, on the mask that's covering the nose). If I appreciated nothing else in this book, I'll give kudos for that. That said, it gets my vote for many other reasons, including an intriguing and attention-holding plot and competent, well-developed characters. That I've come to love them over previous books helps, of course, but overall that doesn't matter much; even if there's an occasional clinker amid the series (to which no author is immune), the characters are strong enough to carry the plot and result in a positive rating. For sure, though, this one's no clinker. Detective Renee Ballard is assigned to the West Hollywood Police Department's Sexual Assault team; checking out a homeless area under an overpass is where this story begins - as do the references to the vagaries of vaccinations and masking (Renee actually contracted the virus, which knocked her out of action for three weeks; now, she's been vaccinated and is very careful about wearing a mask herself). Most recently, she's been on the trail of a "tag team" of rapists who have struck twice. Here, a man is shot - perhaps accidentally - and it turns out the bullet came from the gun that was used in one of retired Detective Harry Bosch's cases back in 2011 (interestingly, while Harry has some health issues, he says he's not been vaccinated "yet," so Renee wears a mask when they interact in person). Although Harry's murder book seems to have inexplicably disappeared from the department, he saved enough information for them to hit the ground running with their investigation. And then, Renee gets a call saying that the "Midnight Men" rapists have struck again. Now she's got two cases to worry about, but as the murder investigation with Harry heats up, she gets the order to turn it over to a different unit. Never one to follow the letter of the law (on occasion, she's been known to stomp on it), Renee refuses to let go, although she and Harry try to stay under the radar while they try to find a link between his 2011 case and the current shooting. Much more than that I can't say without revealing too much, except that it's a thoroughly engrossing adventure that I didn't want to put down until I had to - and even then, I polished it off in two days of spare time. In short, another one well done and highly recommended!

Got a review copy. Great book, another awesome installment in the new Ballard series. Bosch plays a role in the book as well but could have had a larger role. But none the less this is a great book, Ballard works a couple cases and you can see some of the influence that Bosch is having on her and her procedures.

The Dark Hours, by Michael Connelly, adds another fantastic book to his catalog and enforces his hold near the top of police procedures. He doesn't have a monopoly on the genre but I'm not sure there is anyone better. Featuring LAPD detective Renée Ballard, The Dark Hours hits all the right notes. Ballard is a great detective but kind of a renegade within the LAPD. Not only does she have to contend with criminals she must also deal with opposition elements within the department. Seemingly, the only person she can rely on is Ret. Detective Harry Bosch. As allies go, you can't have a better one than Bosch. The Dark Hours features some heinous criminals with well thought-out schemes. The criminals he invents are both diabolical and ingenious. Actually, every character he creates are well developed with many layers. Connelly is a true master of his craft. Whether you are new to his books or a long-time fan, Connelly never disappoints. My sincere thanks to Michael Connelly, Little, Brown and Company, and NetGalley for the privilege of reviewing The Dark Hours.

The latest Michael Connelly thriller is set in the winter of 2021 in a U.S. ravaged by the pandemic and where the political divides are extreme and frequently violent. Situations which leave most members of the Los Angeles Police Department completely demoralised. Whilst hunting for a pair of serial rapists, nicknamed the Midnight Men, Detective Renee Ballard is called to the killing of Javier Raffa, a former gang member, on New Year’s Eve. She soon determines it is murder and ballistics reveal the same weapon was used in an earlier unsolved killing, that of record producer Albert Lee. Coincidentally, the detective who worked that case is the now-retired Harry Bosch. Despite their age/gender/ethnic differences, Renee and Harry are very much cut from the same cloth: the sort of detectives who always work for the victim and pursue their cases to the bitter end; often to the detriment of their careers. The novel proceeds with Renee working both cases with little help, and often hindrance, coming from her fellow officers, including her immediate superior. The only one she can always rely on in Harry. This is a superlative procedural thriller. Brilliantly paced and plotted and capturing the mood of the turbulent times perfectly. Proving that, even after 30 years on the job, Michael Connelly is still at the top of his game.

Another excellent read from Michael Connelly. Great characters, gripping plot. Renee Ballard's character and career continue to develop convincingly. The book's very current, being set in 2020, with real life events being referenced. A very enjoyable read.

The Dark Hours by Michael Connelly is the 4th book in the Renee Ballard Mystery series and the 23rd book featuring Harry Bosch. A New Year Eve's shooting sees Detective Renee Ballard team up with retired detective Harry Bosch when it links to a previous case of his, as well as investigating the midnight rapists, two men recently targetting women in L.A. A superb thriller, and the first I have read which incorporates the changes the pandemic has made and was brilliantly done. Renee is the main detective here, determined and smrt, but reaching out to Bosch when she is let down by her partners and colleagues. A captivating, action-packed thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat.

It's 4.00 am in Turkey and my eyes are killing me right now but I don't even fcking care cause I loved this story a lot. :) Colleen, I love you so much woman... You're my all time favorite author. :)

Too Angsty, Too Poignant, Too Heartbreaking. This book pinches all over my soul. All smiles dipped in tears and all love covered in thorns of Torture, Colleen has taken upon her to rip out reader's hearts with this story of Trapped Love. "I don’t even have enough energy left to tell her it’s too late." Sloan is clutched tight in Asa's grip like a bird in Eagle's talons, she's flailing and fluttering to escape and so did my heart for Sloan. The only reprieve is in Spanish class, writing random lines with Carter. He looks like a saviour, or is he Asa #2? "I can’t save her. As much as I want to, we’re both stuck. I can’t risk ruining something that is so much bigger than just the two of us. I can’t sacrifice what it is I’m here to do for the sake of helping her leave." Beautiful, rough edged story which chafed my heart and made me cry 4.5 stars Follow me on: Email🌻 Bookbub 🌻 Twitter🌻 Instagram🌻 Blog🌻 Facebook🌻 Amazon 🌻

"Love is not found. Love finds. Love finds you in the forgiveness at the tail end of a fight. Love finds you in the empathy you feel for someone else. Love finds you in the embrace that follows a tragedy. Love finds you in the celebration after the conquering of an illness. Love finds you in the devastation after the surrender to an illness. Love finds you in the tragedies." "Worries flow from her lips like the random words that flow from her fingertips. I reach out and try to catch them, clenching then in my fists, wanting nothing more than to catch them all." WOWZA! I didn't know Colleen had this in her. This story was addicting, angsty, and so damn stressful I felt like I was having a heart attack at least 8 times while reading. Props to anyone who read this piece by piece as she was releasing chapters (For those who do not know, this was a project Colleen started to help with writing blocks while writing other books. She had no plan to release it, but released a few chapters on Wattpad and would occassionally update it. The book is now complete and can be purchased on Amazon). There is no way I could have read each chapter and then waited for the next without throwing my iPad across the room. I don't want to say too much on the plot because you ALL NEED TO READ THIS. Some fans of Colleen will be pleasantly surprised with the darker tone she went with in this. Some fans who are not used to this type of writing from her may NOT like this. But the short version is this: Sloan is a college student and is in a relationship with Asa who is a complete psycho controlling asshole drug dealer. Can you tell I didn't like him much? Sloan is pretty much forced to be with him (when you read you'll see why). During a class, Sloan meets Carter. Sweet, sweet, amazing, OMG I LOVE HIM SO MUCH, Carter. She learns Carter (really named Luke) is undercover and trying to take down Asa. Anddddd that's all you'll get from me on the plot. "You're all I see, Sloan. Beyond the job, beyond right and wrong. You're all I see." My mouth finds hers again and I kiss her the way she deserves to be kissed. With conviction. With respect. With feeling. She begins to move on top of me and she's all I see. I close my eyes and she's all I fucking see. READ IT READ IT READ IT! Trust me when I say this was SO wildly entertaining and a must read! Especially if you like your romance with a little sprinkle of dark ;) Too Late | https://amzn.to/34C5EkK Find Me On: Instagram ❤ FB Page ❤ FB Blog ❤ Blog ❤ Twitter

****4.5 STARS**** Okay, well that happened! I really enjoyed this one! We have 3 main characters…. Sloan – college student and girlfriend of Asa. Asa – the biggest drug dealer on his campus who is being investigated. Carter/Luke – undercover police officer assigned to bring down Asa. Also the other man. I liked Sloan, she was a great heroine. You see Sloan is strong, even though she didn’t think so. She wanted out of her relationship with Asa but if she leaves her brother, Steven won’t be able to receive services to help him physical and mentally. Asa is paying thousands of dollars a month to cover his expenses for treatment. She puts up with a lot from Asa from physical and mental abuse to being him in house sex slave (her term, not mine). Luke’s undercover name is Carter and it’s his job to get close to Asa and gather enough evidence to bring him down. But wait a minute….he didn’t expect to meet Sloan who made him rethink if he can handle the job without getting too close. You see he knows and sees Asa abuse Sloan and wants to save her. He’s trying to be the next “Caption Save-A-Hoe”. ….I know that was a wee bit wrong of me to say but it was funny! Asa was crazy as fuck, like seriously crazy. He’s that, “you need to be on medication” crazy. I can deal with a little crazy from time to time, but only that “sexy crazy”. I can’t deal with Asa’s crazy. He is so fucking delusional that I was scared of him and I live in the real world. I mean, his thought process is fucking ridiculous. The things he did were shocking to me. But here’s the thing – he wasn’t only crazy, he was smart too. Being crazy and smart at the same damn time is a recipe for disaster. The lengths Asa went through to get what he wanted were scary and he wanted Sloan anyway he could have her even if that meant committing murder to do it. Let me share a bit of his fucked up thought process with ya…. ….I think the only option I really have left is to shoot Luke in his goddamn smug face and get Sloan out of here while I still can. Sure, she’s going to be a little traumatized. But we could go to therapy or something whenever we get settled again. She’s going to need it after being brainwashed like she was. Here’s the another thing with Asa – he gets off by placing fear into other, mainly Sloan. He even likes it when she cries during sex. WTF! Crazy ass motherfucker! I wish my mother wasn’t a whore. I wish she would stop lying, so she wouldn’t get in trouble so much. I don’t like watching her get in trouble. Daddy says it’s good for me, though. He says if I want to grow up and be a man, I need to see what a woman look like when she cries. Daddy says a woman’s tears make men weak, and the more I see their tears when I’m younger, the less I’ll believe their lies when I’m older. That’s a fucked up thing to learn as a child. So what is love? How should one be loved? Who the fuck knows….Sloan found out what love wasn’t after meeting Luke. She realized that she never truly loved Asa and Asa’s version of love was unhealthy. "I never met anyone who brings more relief to my life than they do stress. Until Luke. Love shouldn’t feel like added weight. It should make you feel as light as air. Asa made everything in my life heavy. Luck makes me feel like I’m floating. I guess that’s the difference between being loved the right way and the wrong way. You either feel tethered to an anchor….or you feel like you’re flying. (view spoiler) For my complete unfiltered review....https://prettymessreading.wordpress.c... Follow all my crazy.... Instagram https://www.instagram.com/prettymessr... Facebook https://www.facebook.com/prettymessre... Twitter https://twitter.com/prettymessread

Non Spoilery section: Hello non spoilery person! Why on earth haven’t you read this book yet? What are you waiting for?! On second thought, there miiiiiiiight be a few reasons why you don’t want to read this book and by a few I mean a lot. You see this book has a trigger warning for basically everything you can possibly think of. Here’s a list of all the trigger warnings: (view spoiler) If you somehow made it through all the previous warnings then congratualtions, you’re good to go my friend. This book is a slap to the feels (just like most of CoHo’s books) but it is absolutely AMAZING! So basically … Now go read the book and come back to discuss it with me when you’re done. Spoilery section: * sighs deeply * Where do I even start? ➨ Let’s talk about Asa: What a great character! I mean he’s a shitty person but I absolutely loved him as a villain. He definitely has a few loose screws in the brain but when it comes to evil plans, the dude knows what he’s doing! ➨Sloan: I had a love/hate relationship with Sloan’s character. She has been through a lot and I know she is a strong female character in her own way but man, there were a few scenes I wanted to shake the life out of her! For example that scene when Asa found her house and raped her in her own bed. I wanted her to fight back for once! I know, I know, she would probably be dead if she had but man, that was so cringy to read about Ughhh *shudders* A quick kick to the balls would have been nice, Sloan. ➨Carter AKA Luke AKA The worst cop in the history of cops: Luke should definitely go find himself a new job. I’m not even sure why he hasn’t been fired yet but this guy says the cutest things and you can’t help but fall for him. ➨The Fake FBI situation: As mentioned above. Luke is the worst cop in the universe. I saw Asa’s plan coming from a mile away! How can a real cop not know when he has a fake cop in front of him? WTH Luke? ➨The car crash situation: CoHo has done it again! I might be wrong but I think CoHo likes to put a car crash scene in most (if not all) of her books. I LOVE THAT! I was actually waiting for it to happen and boy oh boy it did not disappoint. Our favorite cop managed to get in a car crash, break some bones, hit his head, run to his house and kill Asa in a matter of five minutes. This guy must be high on pewter or something (oops wrong book.) ➨The baby situation: It’s gonna eat me up for the rest of my life. I have to know if it’s Asa’s baby or Luke’s! I think I might message Colleen begging her to reveal the secret to me. It’s obviously more likely to be Asa’s but if that’s the case, will the baby be a crazy psycho like his dad and grandad?!!! I hope for everyone’s sake that it’s Luke’s. I NEED ANSWERS! Overall, this story was so entertaining. I found myself talking and yelling at the book a few times which is always a good sign ... well, probably not always but in this case it was. I can’t wait for Colleen to release more books. #CoHoTrash Thanks for reading. Please share your thoughts!

Reviewed by: Hello Beautiful Book Blog Witty, wildly addicting, and scary at times. This over the top Wattpad story will have you on the edge of your seat the entire time. Colleen is out of control. Omg you guys. I had to rate this 5 stars on the sheer fact that I was SO addicted to this story. It's super far fetched, but I really didnt care. I read this in one sitting, minus the 6 chapters I read back in October before all this craziness. This is classic CoHo and totally new twisted CoHo. I didn't know what to think after reading some parts, but it was like a trainwreck, I just couldn't look away. Not to mention it's free on Wattpad! The epilogue to the epilogue was posted today (4/20) so I can rest easy that the story is complete... finally. And I really want some Coconut Cake. “Trains and buses stole my shoes and now I have to eat raw squid.” I love Colleen for so many reasons. She is kind and generous, but also so humble so she feels uncomfortable when people say things like that about her. So Colleen, I’ll just say that you are out of control, but I loved every second of it. You could do whatever you wanted with this book and it WORKED. I felt like I was on a soap opera and it was magnificent. With that said, something beautiful came out of this on the Too Late Discussion page on Facebook. So many women got to share their stories about sexual assault, consent, victim blaming, etc. It turned into more of a support group and that was awesome. I don’t post much, but I read almost everything and it was great to see so many women come together and talk about such a taboo subject. Talking about it helps and also knowing what consent is helps. So, great job Colleen for making that sort of accidental awesomeness. Waiting for each chapter to be posted was pure torture. Especially after a certain epilogue. I just stared at my computer screen, thinking “What? This can’t be it. I’m going to pretend I didn’t read that.” Then, the next day she came through with a “just kidding guys” UGH COLLEEN! You are a horrible person, and by horrible, I mean awesome. The epilogue to the epilogue was just what I needed and now I can rest easy. I actually really enjoyed the story without the epilogue I thought it left it open, but it still felt complete. The last chapter made me laugh and I liked the way it was left. I’m not going into any specific details because you really just need to experience it for yourself, especially now that it is all written. It was such a fun ride going through each chapter with everyone and Colleen. One of my favorite experiences. I won’t forget it. “Worries flow from her lips like the random words that flow from her fingertips. I reach out and try to catch them, clenching them in my fists, wanting nothing more than to catch them all.” ♥ ♥ ♥ “He unclenched his fists and dropped her worries, unable to catch them for her. But she picked them back up and dusted them off. She wants to be able to hold them herself now.” Also, this is absolutely FREE! I mean, how much better can it get? Now, I absolutely can’t wait for her next novel It Ends With Us. << ***** I have been waiting on chapters for forever, it seems! I see a lot people talking about it and now there is like 40!!! OMG! Reading ASAP!

I was immediately sucked into this gripping story. It’s told from the point of view of three people. Sloan is trying to get away from Asa, but it’s because of his money that her brother is able to get the care he needs. As soon as she finishes college and can earn enough money to take care of her brother and herself, she’ll escape this dangerous man. Asa is terrifying. He’s a drug dealer, but that’s the least of his crimes. He thinks Sloan really loves him and his constant control over her is how he loves her. Carter wants to save the day, but it’s too dangerous, at least right now. There are parts of this novel that are hard to read because of the abuse, but it’s quite a page-turner. At about the 2/3rds mark was an epilogue, which confused me since there was so much left of the book. It turns out the last third bounces around in time and is just as tense as the first part. Recommend.

Loved this much darker side of Colleen's writing style! These characters and their story is definitely not something I could ever forget. The best part? It's FREE on Wattpad!

This was a great story! I didn't read it back when Colleen published it on wattpad. I hate wattpad. I want a whole story in one whole book and not a chapter a week/day or anything like that. So I'm really happy she decided to put this into a real book. It was so much 'darker' than her usual teenage romance thingies. It was NOT a love-triangle. The blurb sucks. I almost didn't start reading because I hate love triangles, but we quickly realize that Asa is the bad guy here. REALLY BAD. Even though we - or at least I - shed some tears for him a few times. He didn't get the best deal in life and genetics. We're in college with 20-year old Sloan. She's with Asa because he's paying for her mentally impaired little brother's clinic. And because she has nowhere else to go. And then Carter/Luke enters her life. She's immediately falling for him. And it's the same for him. But he's there to work. With Asa and the drug stuff. But of course all is not as it seems!! This was such a criminal and violent and erotic and abusing and suspensy and exciting and adorable and different lovestory. People who are easily offended or triggered by some things should not read it. I loved it - no idea what that says about me ☺☺☺☺ If you love new adult romances with a bit of suspense and if you're not afraid of a slightly schizo sociopath bad guy - this is SO the book for you!! Oh and don't be surprised when the book says THE END at 65%! It's not the end - there are a whole bunch of epilogues coming. Lots of hugely exciting stuff happens after the official end of the book! ☺ ♡ ♡

Re-read: 7/28/2021 Listening Length: 13 hours and 04 minutes Audiobook source: Audible Rating as of today: 3 stars. I'm definitely a different reader today than I was when I originally read this one. I found it was hard reading about the Asa character and his (view spoiler) I'm going to leave my original star rating but if I was reading it for the first time today it would be 3 stars. ___________________ Have you heard about this book by Colleen Hoover? It was a fun project she did where she uploaded a chapter a day on Wattpad for FREE. I didn't read it when it was available in this format. I waited until it came out on kindle. As I reading it I would imagine what it must have been like for the readers who had to wait for the next chapter to be uploaded to Wattpad. I have to say I would have gone nuts because each chapter ended leaving me wanting MORE. I loved this book, even though, it was very different from Collen Hoover's other pieces of work. Afer I finished the book I contacted my blogging bestie and partner, Kim, and told her this book is a mix of Fight Club (the book version which is a little different from the movie) and the TV show Breaking Bad. I know when she finds the time to read it she'll love it. It's messed up and will have you on the edge of your seat. Even after I finished the story I was still thinking about it. Those are the best type of books... the ones that stick with you. I really don't want to give away any more of the story beyond what I said above about what it is a mix of. Just know if you read this it's darker than what you are used to with Colleen Hoover. Give it a try and while reading it try to imagine ONLY getting a chapter a day to read. It would have driven me crazy waiting for the next chapter! LOL STANDALONE

This book was really good I was pulled in from the beginning. Great suspense and always something going on in the story line loved it. I can't say I like all of Colleen Hoovers books but the one's I do like stay with me and I will definitely read this one again at some point. Happy Reading 📕📗📙📚📓📒📘📒📗📚📗📘📔📘📓📒📚📖📙📕📚📓📗📘📒📖

Love. Love is not found. Love finds. *round of applause for yet another brilliant Colleen Hoover book* AND GUYS! THIS ONE IS FREE ON WATTPAD! WHICH MEANS EVERYONE CAN READ IT!! And needs to read it!! CLICK IT!!! http://my.w.tt/UiNb/Vfbzx1f0lu BUT I STILL NEED A PHYSICAL COPY FOR MY COLLEEN HOOVER COLLECTION PLEASE Anyways...Wow..that was so wow...Literally the only word flowing through my head right now. I read this without knowing what this was about, just that it was Colleen Hoover and I just had to read it. This one was very 21 Jump Street. It follows Sloan who is in an extremely toxic relationship. Her boyfriend Asa is a drug dealer and she's stuck in a relationship with him out of fear and something else that he has over her head, which I don't want to say. Then she meets Carter (Luke) who is under cover cop trying to catch Asa and put him in jail. Obviously they fall head over heels in love. Obviously there's secrets and obviously it's utterly tragic and raw and beautiful and wonderful. He hugs me. That's all he does. He hugs me tightly without a word, yet I can feel everything he is saying. This book was definitely a lot darker than the other Colleen Hoover books I've read, but she truly did such a fantastic job putting it all together. She gave us three points of view. We've got Sloan, who is so terrified of the situation she's in and is just saving up to eventually get out. Then Asa, the drug dealer. And it's so twisted being in that guy's head. The way he thinks is just frightening and alarming and it's scary to think that there are other guys out there like him. He loves Sloan possessively and abusively. I loved getting his backstory a little bit and seeing exactly how he got to be this way. In some ways I pitied him but he was just so awful although I did love reading his chapters because they were so different. I was actually scared of this guy and what he could do. The last point of view we get is Carter (Luke) who I LOVED! He's such a sweet and caring person. I loved getting inside his head and watching his internal struggle of falling in love with Sloan and telling her the truth. Worries flow from her lips like the random words that flow from her fingertips. I reach out and try to catch them, clenching them to my fists, wanting nothing more than to catch them all. I really really loved Luke!! And that's secret way that would communicate in that house and when she wrote her response: He in clenched his fists and dropped her worries, unable to catch them for her. But she picked them back up and dusted them off. She wants to be able to hold them herself now. Ahh! I loved watching her get strong and there relationship was so great to read. I loved the connection they had immediately. And every time they were together my heart would race out of fear of Asa coming but I felt like I was soaking it up with them. I loved how this story shows 2 different types of relationships. And the absolute horror of being in an abusive relationship. Then the gentleness and how caring a good relationship could be. My heart broke for Sloan and what she has been through and I loved that she had Luke with her. I guess that the difference in being loved the right way and the wrong way. You either feel tethered to an anchor..or you feel like you're flying. The little notes they passed were great and the ones in their class were so funny, but then you find out where it originates from and it broke my heart. This book broke my heart continuously. Reading this in public was so hard, I was ready to burst into tears and some parts! It was just so emotional! I've said it before and I'll say it again, reading her books is an experience. You fee the fear of Asa, the exciting suspense. There is some laughs thrown in there, the writing is exquisite, the characters are so realistic, and the plot is intense and fast paced. You don't want to miss the opportunity to read this one. I can't stop thinking about it. I flew through this and couldn't put it down. I just wanted more and more and more. I needed to know what was going to happen and how everything was going to play out. Then the way it all ending. AH I CANT! Just another great and heart pounding read by the wonderful Colleen Hoover. And that's where love finds you..in the tragedies. *wipes tear*

WOW. Just wow. I think this honestly be my favorite CoHo book yet. So unlike the rest of her books and I think that's why I enjoyed it so much. I literally couldn't put it down! So happy with the ending. It was a little more risque than her other books which I LOVE. Asa's character was disturbing, but also loveable, and I understand how his struggles as a child made him into who he was as an adult.. but he was still crazy. Crazy in the most perfect way. I love this book. 5 stars, it deserves all the stars! I wish she would continue with this type of writing style. My favorite author without a doubt.

"Sometimes you've gotta burn things so you can start fresh." Vanesa Andersen never felt good enough. Not for her parents. Not for her uncle that took her in. But she's clever, beautiful, and deadly. When her cousin comes back after 6 years - she has a surprise with her. Enzo Marino. And for the first time Vanesa feels seen. And Enzo can't keep himself from getting obsessed. "That's what she is to me: a work of art. I wish like hell she weren't." There's only one problem. He can never have her. She can never have him. He's her cousin's fiancée. But temptation is a siren's song that can't be ignored. No matter how much Enzo and Vanesa might try. "It's dangerous wanting something so badly when there's no rhyme or reason." I received an advanced reader's copy in exchange for an honest review 💜💜 "She can pretend I don't affect her, but the proof is right there on her pretty skin." *deep breath deep breath deep breath* ok I cannot believe I am about to right this but here it goes - THANK YOU SO MUCH EMILY MCINTIRE FOR THE ADVANCED READER'S COPY!! (BTW I am writing this while holding back happy tears - not even kidding). "Turns our Lover Boy looks pretty good when he's a little unhinged." The "Never After" series has always had a special place in my heart and I think "Hexed" might be my favorite instalment. Emily McIntire always has this amazing writing to her books - this amazing world creation and character building - I could not put this book down if you paid me too or physically moved me. I was devouring this book and it was devouring me. It is very bittersweet that this is the last book in the series but it just means that it is rereading time!! 💜💜 "There she goes with my name again ,and fuck, does it sound good rolling off her tongue. I want to hear her say it again. Moan it. Scream it." Enzo and Vanesa have my heart. Their own stories are everything and their banter, chemistry and spice!!! NO NOTES - I AM SAT. I AM SITTING. YOU WILL NOT MOVE ME PEOPLE. Thank you so much Emily McIntire again for this masterpiece!! 💜🐚🔱 "Well, that's your first mistake, piccola sirena. Who ever said I was fair?" Now - I told you this playlist was a long one but I just could not help myself - these are the songs that I added to the official playlist and might I say that I am very proud of myself thank you very much 💜🐚🔱 (Link - https://open.spotify.com/playlist/5iA... ) 🎶 "Poor Unfortunate Souls" - China Anne McClain 🎶 "W.I.T.C.H." - Rain Paris 🎶 "VILLAIN" - Neoni 🎶 "Sugar" - Sleep Token 🎶 "Poison - Remix" - Rita Ora, Krept & Konan, Zdot 🎶 "killing boys" - Halsey 🎶 "Acid Annie" - Natalia Kills 🎶 "100 Little Deaths" - Lilith Czar 🎶 "Vicious" - Bohnes 🎶 "CASUALTY" - MOTHICA 🎶 "DARKSIDE" - Neoni 🎶 "Gangsta - Flashback Version" - Kehlani 🎶 "Enter Sandman" - Alessia Cara, The Warning 🎶 "ever fallen?" - Kate Peytavin 🎶 "SEX & THE CITY" - PLVTINUM, VOILA 🎶 "JENNIFER'S BODY - Sped Up" - PLVTINUM, Dutch Melrose, Chris Grey 🎶 "When You Say My Name" - Chandler Leighton 🎶 "Kiss or Kill" - Stela Cole 🎶 "Hypnotic" - Zella Day 🎶 "Devil's Worst Nightmare" - FJORA 🎶 "Bloody Mary" - Lady Gaga 🎶 "Call Me Devil" - Friends in Tokyo 🎶 "Kill Of The Night" - Gin Wigmore 🎶 "GOSSIP" - Maneskin, Tom Morello 🎶 "My Kink Is Karma" - Chappell Roan 🎶 "Electricity" - Ashley Jana 🎶 "Nightmare" - Halsey 🎶 "Outta my head" - Omido, Rick Jansen, Ordell 🎶 "Lose Control" - Teddy Swims 🎶 "Black Magic Woman" - VCTRYS 🎶 "Black Magic" - Little Mix 🎶 "Bad Guy" - Halocene 🎶 "Desperado" - Rihanna 🎶 "Shackles" - Steven Rodriguez 🎶 "FUCK" - Snow Wife 🎶 "King" - Lilith Czar 🎶 "You Call Me a Bitch Like It's a Bad Thing" - Halestorm 🎶 "Venom" - Little Simz 🎶 "sugar honey ice & tea" - Bring Me The Horizon 🎶 "Fire Meet Gasoline" - Sia 🎶 "Harder To Breathe" - Letdown. 🎶 "HEARTBEAT" - Isabel LaRosa 🎶 "You Put a Spell on Me" - Austin Giorgio 🎶 "happy ending" - Bailey Spinn 🎶 "In the Dark" - Solence 🎶 "Bigger Person" - Lauren Spencer Smith 🎶 "Baby" - Madison Beer 🎶 "Renegade" - Aaryan Shah 🎶 "Sweet 'n' Savage" - Kxlly 🎶 "eyes don't lie sped up" - Isabel LaRosa 🎶 "My Only Dream Is To Be Loved" - Chrissy Chlapecka 🎶 "Burning Down - Alex's Version" - Alex Warren 🎶 "Criminals" - Meghan Trainor 🎶 "Like You Mean It" - Steven Rodriguez 🎶 "trouble" - Camylio 🎶 "Chokehold" - Austin Giorgio 🎶 "Burn" - Tom Walker 🎶 "I Feel You" - Depeche Mode 🎶 "Medusa" - Kaia Jette 🎶 "Miss Independent" - Meet Me @ The Altar 🎶 "Stupid Cupid" - Jenna Raine 🎶 "Movement" - Hozier 🎶 "Chokehold" - Sleep Token 🎶 "angel" - Camylio 🎶 "Family Line" - Conan Gray 🎶 "Little Girl Gone" - CHINCHILLA 🎶 "MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT" - Loveless 🎶 "I Want To" - Rosenfeld 🎶 "Not Afraid Anymore" - Halsey 🎶 "GASOLINE" - Maneskin 🎶 "Feel Me Now" - If Not For Me 🎶 "Best Of Me" - Christina Aguilera 🎶 "Dynasty (Orchestral Version)" - MIIA 🎶 "You've Created a Monster" - Bohnes 🎶 "Goddess" - Xana 🎶 "Fire On Fire" - Sam Smith 🎶 "LOUD" - Sofia Carson 🎶 "Mad World" - Demi Lovato 🎶 "River" - BRKN LOVE 🎶 "Snow On The Beach" - Taylor Swift, Lana Del Rey 🎶 "Angry" - Paravi 🎶 "Joke's On You" - Charlotte Lawrence 🎶 "Who's Afraid of Little Old Me? - Cover" - Remember the Monsters 🎶 "Wicked Witch of the Westside" - Ellise 🎶 "Just a Girl - Cover" - Florence + The Machine 🎶 "You Made a Monster" - Nick Kingsley, Hannah Hart 🎶 "Belladonna" - Ava Max 🎶 "GOD COMPLEX" - April Jai 🎶 "The Summoning" - Sleep Token 🎶 "Like A God" - Lia Maria Johnson 🎶 "I'm yours" - Isabel LaRosa 🎶 "…Fuck" - Johnny Rain 🎶 "Chains" - Nick Jonas 🎶 "as good a reason" - Paris Paloma 🎶 "CLEO" - Halle Abadi 🎶 "Queen Of The Night" - Hey Violet 🎶 "Die With A Smile" - Lady Gaga, Bruno Mars 🎶 "To My Knees" - Two Feet 🎶 "Eat Your Young" - Hozier 🎶 "Call Out My Name" - The Weeknd 🎶 "Swim" - Chase Atlantic 🎶 "LET THE WORLD BURN" - Chris Grey 🎶 "Leave My Body" - Florence + The Machine 🎶 "Lover" - Taylor Swift 🎶 "ALWAYS BEEN YOU" - Chris Grey 🎶 "BLURRY" - Neoni 🎶 "Power Over Me" - Dermot Kennedy 🎶 "Ride for Me" - Daniel Di Angelo 🎶 "Taste" - Ari Abdul 🎶 "Shatter Me" - Lindsey Stirling, Lzzy Hale 🎶 "greedy" - Tate McRae 🎶 "Moon" - Austin Giorgio 🎶 "Supernova" - Ansel Elgort 🎶 "Queen" - Loren Gray 🎶 "Lipstick" - Charlie Puth 🎶 "Kiss The Girl" - Brent Morgan 🎶 "Ever Ever After" - Carrie Underwood And you know Emily McIntire delivered with the spice 🌶️🌶️🌶️ "Now be a good girl and let me eat." "Do You see how good you look, under my hands, taking my cock?" "That's right, baby - it's me who makes you feel like this. Goddamn, you take my cock so well." 🐚 Tropes 🐚 🔱 Female Villain + Antihero = True Love 💜 Forbidden Romance 🔱 Touch Her/Him and Die 💜 He Falls First 🔱 Mafia Romance 💜 Forced Proximity 🔱 Slow Burn 💜 Dark Fractured Fairytale Romance Book Edit - https://www.instagram.com/p/DBq4e_SoG...

Pre-written review cause in Mother Emily we trust. ❤️

This has to be the best book I’ve ever read from Emily McIntire. Like actual perfection, left no crumbs, chef’s kiss and all that. The tension in this was literally off the charts. Every single chapter you just got smacked in the face with it. These two wanted each other SO FREAKING BADLY. I mean they were perfect for each other so of course?? Also, Enzo gives the best gifts. Can we say holy plot twists?? There were so many things I just didn’t see coming that had my jaw on the freaking floor. You just can’t predict things like that. Just when you thought you figured everything out BOOM twist. And it just kept happening?? The spice. The spice was 🤌🏻🤌🏻🤌🏻. I mean what more can I say? It was most definitely spicing. 10/10 would read again and again and again.

I HAVE A NEW FAVORITE EMILY MCINTIRE BOOK 🗣️ I have so much love for morally grey women, it’s always going to boost the books rating for me because of that. And Venesa is easily a top favorite morally grey woman for me now, I absolutely adored her entire character arc. AND she’s bisexual?? PLEASE. IM IN LOVE. Enzo also had me swooning left and right, which is not surprising to me since all of Emily’s men do that to me haha. The plot, I have to say, was my favorite of hers so far too. It was classic mafia, but with the little twists here and there and nods to the little mermaid, it made it soooo unique and interesting to me. Overall, I’m dying to yap about with this people so hurry up and read it once it comes out haha. That’s how good it is!! *I received an arc from the publisher in exchange for my honest review*

Oh my god this book was freaking addicting!!!!! A little mermaid inspired dark romance where the main character, Venessa aka Ursula, is her uncle Trent’s right hand woman until she isn’t… her cousin (aria aka Ariel) was a major c*nt but she was someone Venessa just had to bear every once in a while... that is until she gets engaged and comes back to their town in South Carolina. what Venessa wasn't expecting was to have an insane connection with Aria's future fiance and the tension between her and Enzo was a strongggggg one! No one ever looked out for Venessa until Enzo and honestly there were so many cute moments (which is wild because HELLO MAFIA/DARK ROMANCE?!) that had me giggly and fluttery!! i listened to this one and yes the accents were a bit cheesy but the story was soooooo well woven and creative and I just freaking LOVED IT! i wish the ending was longer because I didn't want it to end!!!

Just finished Hexed by Emily McIntire!!! It was another fantastic book from her Never After Series with a Little Mermaid twisted theme!! Can’t express how much I loved the villainess Venesa!!! She was a beautifully complex character who was beautiful and deadly as fuck ! with a quick mind and a smart mouth with balls bigger then most men’s! But she also hid a vulnerable and broken heart that few ever saw. She was a tool that her uncle used without really caring for her. Until Enzo entered her world! Nobody cared or tried to understand Venesa but from the first meeting he was pulled toward this bad girl even knowing that she was his fiancée Aria’s cousin and hands off. A marriage to combine the two mafia families together was made between Enzo’s and Aria’s families after Aria saved Enzo’s life , but what Enzo doesn’t remember was it was really Venesa who saved him after someone had left him for dead. This couple had a fabulous chemistry together with a slow burn that all of a sudden went from sexy banter and stolen touches to some really great hot and dirty mind blowing sex!!! I mean really fucking steamy!! So worth the wait! All characters even background characters were amazing!!! And the constant twists and turns just kept coming! This series just keeps getting better and better and better! Not only is Emily McIntire a awesome storyteller and has some of my favorite book characters of all time but her leading men are all scrumptious! And Enzo is my new obsession! G#d Damn he’s hot!!! And between good looks and swinging a larger then life big…. 🍆and some really amazing oral play and letting Venesa take the lead! He’s definitely my kind of guy!😂 And to think that Emily wrote this book going through cancer treatments is just a testament to how truly bad ass this chic is! Bravo beautiful! Fuck cancer! It picked the wrong woman to fuck with! Until next time Luv’s💋😉

To those poor unfortunate souls 🎶 I never liked Ariel, the little mermaid was not a movie I chose to watch a bunch. But I would watch it today if it went down like this book 🤣 Obviously not child friendly… Venesa 🐙 I like a little bad*ss female with stabby tendencies. Enzo 👑🖤 Phew I liked him. Little mob son with a heart and a gun. I really love the fractured fairytale retelling aspect. The play on names and events that occur. So good. 🧜‍♀️💋

Well guys, we’re officially at the end of this amazing series. I held off reading this until I went on holiday and boy, did it not disappoint. How Emily wrote book after book while battling cancer is amazing. Love you Mrs Mcintire. Please keep giving us more — I changed my mind and actually don’t want to read this book because exactly WHAT am I supposed to do when this series is over? 😭 — UPDATE: Mrs McIntire, I believe I owe you my left tit — I would sell my left tit for this to be Ursula’s book

Rating: 5 stars⭐️✨ Recommend: Hell yeah Genre: Dark retelling romance🌶️ *Spoiler free review + synopsis* This is a dark romance mafia retelling of Arielle in the never after series. -Tropes: 🐚Marriage of convenience 🐚Enemies to lovers 🐚Mafia romance 🐚Touch her and die 🐚Slow burn 🐚Forced proximity This had a lot of tropes I don’t normally love but were done so well it made me change my mind. The plot was plotting , the banter was bantering , and the smut was as smutting.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Hexed by Emily McEntire was an absolutely spellbinding read! This was my first book by her, and it most definitely won’t be my last—I’ve already added the rest of the series to my TBR. The tension in this story was pure magic. It had an electric charge that kept me hooked, and when it finally broke, the sparks practically flew off the page, sizzling through the rest of the book. Emily McEntire’s storytelling is masterful, weaving layers of intrigue with unexpected twists and turns. I was on the edge of my seat the entire time, and I swear, if there hadn’t been a HEA, my book might not have survived. A delicious mix of dark romance and a Little Mermaid-inspired twist? Yes, please! This book checked all the boxes for me and more. If you love high-stakes romance with captivating characters and a dash of magic, this one is an absolute must-read.

The Never After series went out much like it came in - with a darkly romantic bang. 📕 𝗕𝗼𝗼𝗸 𝗜𝗻𝗳𝗼𝗿𝗺𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻: Hexed by Emily McIntire 📙 𝗦𝗲𝗿𝗶𝗲𝘀: Never After character series. Book 6. 📗 𝗥𝗲𝗮𝗱𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗗𝗲𝘁𝗮𝗶𝗹𝘀: E-book on Kindle. 🆓 on KU. 📘 𝗚𝗲𝗻𝗿𝗲: Dark romance 📔 𝗧𝗿𝗼𝗽𝗲𝘀: Villain FMC & MMC, he’s engaged, mafia, fractured fairytale, slow burn, touch her/him and die. 📖 𝗦𝘆𝗻𝗼𝗽𝘀𝗶𝘀: Venesa is the right hand of the king of the South. Enzo is the second in command of the Cosa Nostra. He’s engaged to be wed to her cousin, doing his duty to his family - except he can’t get Venesa out of his head. 🌟 𝗥𝗲𝘃𝗶𝗲𝘄: Ok, honest review time. I loved Hooked. I am absolutely obsessed with Scarred. And I think Wretched is one of the most underrated books of the series. But books 4 and 5 of this series - Twisted and Crossed - were not my jam at all. Crossed had me almost quit this series. But I’m so glad I picked up Hexed. Everything screamed “WE’RE BACK BABY!” in this one. The parallels to Little Mermaid were fun and kept me strung along. The duology of both Venessa and Enzo - ruthless killers who are hopelessly in love… Emily McIntire said this was her most romantic book yet, and while I could argue that point I love swoony romance with a dark edge. There’s some cheating involved in this one - but trust me, it doesn’t feel dirty when it happens. Overall, huge applause to Emily McIntire for this series. It takes an excellent writer and incredible forethought to do what she’s done - and through what she was going through no less. I’m so glad it went out on a high note. 𝗥𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗻𝗴: 5/5 ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 𝗦𝗽𝗶𝗰𝗲 𝗟𝗲𝘃𝗲𝗹: 3.5/5 🌶🌶🌶

*4.5 stars, rounded up* okayyyyy y’all I did love this, especially as a Little Mermaid retelling enthusiast and Emily feddddd us loved the mafia vibes & Venesa is an icon

“In a different life”!!!😭😭💖💖💖💖 This has to be my new favorite book from Emily McIntire !! Check the TW!!! In this mafia dark romance you meet Venesa and Enzo. Both come from mafia families and suffer from traumatic upbringings. Their tension is fire from the moment they meet but there are way too many obstacles and reasons they shouldn’t act on their intense desires. One being, an arranged marriage between Enzo and Aria (Venesa’s cousin). Will they let their desires win? Or will they be consumed in the mafia life? As always, Emily McIntire did her thang!!!! I fell in love with this book and the intense chemistry that this couple had was electrifying! The book pulled at my heart strings with all the romance and also when it came to a lot of the traumatic events. If you enjoy dark romance or mafia romances then you will definitely fall in love with this book like I have 💖💖💖

To write a book while undergoing chemotherapy is one thing, but to write a book this amazing during that time?! Bravo👏🏼 I felt so honoured to have received this arc because y’all know that scarred is my fave book ever!! If Scarred had a younger cousin, it would be this book, so ofc I LOVED it🤭 I giggled & squealed like a mad woman the entire time- this book had me feeling so giddy! The twists & turns were unpredictable & kept me on my toes & there were plenty of emotional scenes/dialogue. If you want a dark romance w/ a healthy relationship & which isn’t toxic, this is it. Venesa is sassy, snarky, intelligent, confident, badass, & lives by her own rules, & despite being treated like scum by everyone, she’s still a force to be reckoned with. Enzo may be a future mafia don, but he’s a huge green flag! Whilst still being dangerous & cunning, he’s also so charming, thoughtful, & kind. I loved how he constantly tried to make venesa feel seen & loved, especially because no one else ever did🥹❤️‍🩹 The tension in this book is INSANE + it was a slowburn so I was suffocating! The forbidden trope was done so well- it was so deliciously juicy🤭 I love how easily they were able to be vulnerable & open w/ one another, & how much respect & care they had for each other. They understood one another on such a deep level, & easily formed an emotional connection. They were so cute & had me blushing! I LOVED them🥹🩷 easily my second fave book in the series👏🏼 𝐑𝐞𝐚𝐝 𝐢𝐟 𝐲𝐨𝐮 𝐥𝐢𝐤𝐞: cousins fiancé, forbidden dark mafia romance, The little mermaid fractured fairytale, touch her/him & 💀, forced proximity, he falls first So damn proud of you Emily🥹 Thank you for the eArc🩷

Pre written review because emily ia an amazing writer who only writes masterpieces❤️🥰🌹

AHHHHHHHHH i Cant even begin to describe my emotions.. This is my new favourite Emily book!! She did her BIG one on this! Enzo was absolutely OBSESSED. And Venesa was an absolute badass!!

Hexed, the sixth installment in Emily McIntire’s Never After series, brings a dark, enchanting twist to classic fairytale themes, this time inspired by the little mermaid 🧜‍♀️. It dives into a world filled with secrets, mystery, revenge, and morally complex characters, with families willing to sacrifice almost anything for power - so you never know who might betray you. This was such a great addition to the series 👌. The chemistry, the tension, and their journey from enemies to something more keep you gripped with each twist. Somewhere around 4.5-4.75 ⭐️’s

LOVE! 🩷 series ranking: Crossed, Scarred, Hexed, Wretched, Hooked, Twisted

ENZO MARINO, YOU DOGGGGGG 🤭 Okay no but for real, this was easily one of my favorite books in the Never After series. It's giving Scarred and Tristan Faasa a run for their money, and if you know me, you know how much I love that book. So for this to compare? It's means she's seriously GIVING. Emily was right when she said this was her most romantic couple. These two had me gnawing on the bars of my enclosure from the get go. Venesa, my sweet little siren, can do no wrong. I mean, not literally, because girl was definitely committing crimes left and right lmfao, but pish posh none of that matters, because all I wanted for her was happiness. As a fellow people pleaser, I just adored her. My heart hurt for her. And I love a good Mafia man, but there was just something about him that had me swooning every five minutes. Maybe the tattoos? Maybe the way he encourage Venesa to let her dark side come out to play? While I'm so sad to see the Never After series finished, I'm so glad that this was our last book, because it truly ended with a bang. Thank you to Emily and her team for the eARC!

4.5 It was easily my favorite from the Never After Series. The tension in this book was so well done!! I was giggling, kicking my feet, and continuously looking forward to any interaction between the two main characters. The references to The Little Mermaid were not only nostaglic but added bits of joy to this fun story. The emotional backstory for our 'villain' had me rooting for her all along. It was touching, dark, entertaining, and had me patiently waiting for the true villains downfall! Little Mermaid/Mafia/Female Villain/Beginner dark romance = Pure Entertainment The Never After Series is nothing but a good time!!

He’s back…………….. First of all, I can’t believe this is book 20. I’ve read all 20 and I’ll happily read 20 more! All of the past 20 books have been good, most have been great. But I’ll admit that I had a nitpick or two in the last couple. Nitpicks no more. This is Pendergast in all his glory! You have a historical mystery, a more modern, gruesome mystery, secrets, lies and so much darkness. Pendergast, Constance and Coldmoon all shine here and make quite the interesting trio. They play off each other so wonderfully. And our tall pale dude is in his element – elegant snark, imperiousness when called for, and hints of heart that come through – though sometimes a hair too late. I read this so quickly, loved every last minute of it, and wanted more! Five stars! *ARC Provided via Net Galley

Wow - this one sure took a turn for the bizarre! And the ending? Well, I'm still in shock. The ending, of course, I can't reveal. As for the bizarre, with this series - this is the 20th book - it's pretty much to be expected, although maybe not quite this much. The story begins with the 1971 disappearance of D.B. Cooper, who, threatening the flight crew with what turned out to be a fake bomb, collected a ransom of $200,000 and parachuted from Flight 305 that started in Portland headed for Seattle (which is, for the record, a true story). Readers may (should) suspect that this has some bearing on the tale that follows, when FBI Special Agent Aloysius Pendergast and his partner, Agent Armstrong Coldmoon, are ordered to Savannah, Georgia. There, a couple of bodies have been found totally drained of blood - either a blessing or a bane, depending on who's looking to get rich or famous - in a city that's known for its ghosts and vampires. Special interests also are at work here, in the form of a group looking to capture paranormal activity on film and a man looking to do an expose on the paranormal-filming group. While a couple of blood-let bodies may boost or hinder their causes one way or another, the same can be said of how their activities impact Pendergast's investigation. Throw in a couple more bloodless bodies, a sinister cemetery and some futuristic technology, and Pendergast and company definitely have their hands and thinking caps full. As usual, Pendergast gets a lot of assistance from his ward with the mysterious background, Constance Greene; this time, her help not only is crucial to solving the case, but ultimately brings into question the direction future books in this series will take. For sure I'm one who will be waiting on pins and needles for the next one. As for this, well, nothing left to say but bravo (and please, please, don't waste any time getting the next installment ready).

Book 20 in the Pendergast series and this one was a keeper! I have to be honest, while there really isn’t a book in this series that I outright disliked, I was starting to get the fear that the series had almost run its course. I did like books 18 and 19 much more than a few that preceded, so I was hopeful that it was moving in the right direction. This book eased any concerns I had. For a long running series like this one, they needed something that would shake things up without going too far out there. The way they incorporated the DB Cooper mystery into the story was very creative. It was so hard to see how they could possibly tie it in to murders in Savannah, but they did so beautifully. The book overall was reminiscent of Relic, while still being its own unique story. I have spent the last several books wishing Constance would just go away. I felt like she had the potential to be such an interesting character, but she just grated on me after awhile. I really enjoyed the direction they went with her here and I am excited to see where this goes. Coldmoon being visibly creeped out by her is always entertaining as well. I am always of the belief that these books are not meant to be read as a standalone. There is just too much backstory. I think Pendergast fans will be overall pleased with this latest effort.

I've read every book in the series, and this is the story I've been waiting for years for! What a wild, unexpected ride. Hope this leads to more off the wall tales to come.

Bloodless is an invigorating, fast paced new entry in the Pendergast series and follows on his work with fellow agent Coldmoon and his ward Constance Green in the last book. Once again, Assistant Director Pickett has delayed each of their returns to their respective destinations to bring them to the scene of a crime deserving specialized attention, a strange killing in Savannah Georgia. And anyone knows that Pendergast gives the best and most specialized of attention to any case he takes on. There are so many elements of this case to keep it interesting: the manner of death, the presence of a “documentary” film crew trying to make a film about evil specters of Savannah; the election campaign of an obnoxious senator, a somewhat mysterious elderly woman hotel owner, and of course the venerable old city itself. Putting all of this together, along with a couple of other elements it would be better for the reader to learn through the story, this was one of the most exciting episodes of the series that I’ve read for a while. Highly recommended. While it’s always better if you have some knowledge of the characters beforehand, I think you could read this book without that history though you might miss some of the inter-character meaning. Who knows? You might decide to read the series! A copy of this book was provided by the publisher through NetGalley in return for an honest review.

The authors finally took the crew back into the realm of sci-fi! If you have read all the books in the series you know there is some hinky going on :) I was only disappointed in that the only person's who's feelings were expressed of the trio was Coldmoon's but I like him so that was okay. I am amazed at the way they take Constance back! Now I have to wait...

Excellent, can I give it 10 Stars?! I think this may be the best Pendergast to date and can not wait for the next chapter. Thanks NetGalley for the ARC

With this 20 Pendergast novel, the authors take the running thread of the supernatural/speculative themes much further than they have in other plots, much further than Ice Limit, and involve Constance up to her pretty nose. As usual, the writing is impeccable, fast, and invisible as the story unfolds. The bad guys are bad, and Coldmoon is funny in his exasperation with Pendergast, who he is becoming a partner to, despite his better judgement and sense of safety. The speculative last scenes that cross over into new territory had uniquely memorable descriptions, and they had logic blended skillfully into them to suspend belief. Well done. Even non-fans of this approach/matter, will be fascinated. The only complaint I have is that as well done as the final scene was with Constance, it didn't quite end on the point of plot I would have preferred---reasons not give here to give away plot over why. Enjoy!

What a ride, this one was wild! Usually, the Pendergast books are normal thrillers with a murder case that needs solving. Sometimes they have paranormal aspects, and sometimes it's just straight-up police work. But oh boy, this one had it all: police investigation, paranormal elements, and sci-fi! Think Dark Matter meets Relic. This book definitely felt like an ode to the first two books in the series, minus Lieutenant D'Agosta, but with the addition of Special Agent Cold Moon, which works pretty well, if I do say so myself. The ending was definitely a major cliffhanger. I can't imagine for one minute that Aloysius will leave it there. I just don't know what will happen next, or how the story will progress. On a more personal note, I’ve been reading this series for about six years now, and I still don’t know how it came into my life, but every day I’m grateful that it did. My reading journey would certainly not be the same without A.X.L. Pendergast in it. Most of the books in the series I’ve listened to as audiobooks, and the last two had a different narrator. They did a good job, but it wasn’t the voice of Pendergast, you know? So I Googled it and found out René Auberjonois died, and now I feel like I’ve lost a friend.

Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child return to their original beginnings in the latest novel. Pendergast and Coldmoon are investigating a case which turns into a supernatural event as befitting Savannah. When this team of writers began, they had action adventures and supernatural events but through the years had steered away. Bloodless brings back the circle and I look forward to what will be next.

It isn’t often that authors can have a character so decidedly return to the roots of what made a book so intriguing in the beginning, but the writing team of Preston and Child have successfully done just this thing. FBI Agent Aloysius Pendergast began his fictional career by hunting a gigantic monster through the NY Museum of Natural History. Now, he’s chasing another, even larger monster through the streets and cemeteries of Savannah, Georgia. Pendergast has made a career of handling curious cases that often border on paranormal intrigue. So it is not surprising that though they are still recovering from the ordeal that became their last investigation, Pendergast, along with his recent partner Agent Armstrong Coldmoon, and his ward, Constance Greene, are intercepted by Assistant Director Pickett before they can part ways. A series of troubling murders has beset Savannah, and rumors of the bodies being found completely drained of blood seems tailor-made to Pendergast’s expertise. Will the investigators find proof that the legendary Savannah Vampire actually exists? A group of ghost hunters making a movie certainly hope so, even if part of the crew has to fake the evidence. Meanwhile, an overbearing Senator seeking re-election causes another complication to an already difficult investigation that includes twists with a device that can see into the future and the true identity/fate of D.B. Cooper from the famed unsolved mystery fifty years earlier. The authors, as usual, have done a superb job with well-developed plots, enormously well-researched locations and scenarios, and enough twists and turns for a roller coaster. For long fans of the series, I don’t want to give anything away about the relationship developments between certain characters. For those who have never read this series before, don’t be afraid to give it a shot. You will be able to pick up most of the important points, though I suggest after reading this book you go back and start the series from the beginning to see what you may have missed. I award this novel five stars and recommend Bloodless to fans of detective procedurals, thrillers, and paranormal stories. It really has something for everyone. Happy Reading!

Wow where to begin. Okay so this is book #20 of my favorite book series ever and I’ve been a faithful reader picking these up the day they come out. Let me start with HOW I got hooked on the series. First we have one of the more unique main characters you’ll experience in modern fiction. One could say he’s the new Sherlock Holmes and I think the authors would be okay with that. What also drew me in was how the first 8 books or so introduced elements of mystery, horror, supernatural, sci-fi, and suspense. Add on top of that great characters and solid writing…man…so so good. As the series progressed the authors maintained the solid writing and characters but seemed to stray from the horror, supernatural, and sci-fi elements i mentioned earlier. Okay…maybe they wanted to take a break from that and make the stories more “realistic”. Unfortunately it was a long break and I found myself liking but not loving many of the later novels in the series. I even wrote to the authors multiple times begging them to bring back that those extra elements. And now with book 20…they do just that. They didn’t just bring it back a little either…this book is filled with supernatural, horror and sci fi tones. I’m so happy and can’t wait for book 21!!!!!

Hands-down Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child are two of my all-time favorite writers, whether they be writing individually or in tandem. BLOODLESS is the latest in the long and successful run of novels by their combined efforts which features one of the most unique protagonists in all of thriller fiction --- Agent Aloysius Pendergast. I also must proclaim, at the onset of my review, that BLOODLESS may rank as one of the finest novels Preston & Child have ever penned. If you are a loyal fan who has read everything by them as I have, you will appreciate what a high compliment that is. The novel is set in one of the most haunted cities in all the world --- Savannah, Georgia. However, before we dive into the potentially supernatural events that are taking place in this historic city, there is a most-interesting back-story that must be enjoyed first. D.B. Cooper or Dan Cooper was an unidentified hijacker of a Boeing 727 traveling between Portland and Seattle on the afternoon of November 23, 1971. Wearing four makeshift parachutes, Cooper jumped from the plane with nearly $200,000 in ransom money strapped to his body. The leap happened somewhere over Southwestern Washington State. Mr. Cooper and the money were never seen or heard from again. Now, you may be asking what the story of the infamous D. B. Cooper might have with a Preston & Child novel set primarily in modern-day Savannah, GA. Well, I am not going to make that connection for you here. All I will say is that it is a whopper of a plot twist from two of the most inventive minds in the business! In present day we find Agent A.X. L. Pendergast of the Federal Bureau of Investigation heading with his companion and ward, Constance Greene, and new partner the Native American with a chip on his shoulder, Special Agent Armstrong Coldmoon, heading from their last assignment off the coast of Florida directly to Savannah, GA. This is all at the behest of their leader, FBI Assistant Director In Charge Walter Pickett. Coldmoon is not at all pleased with this sudden change to their itinerary as he was planning to return to his home base of Denver, Colorado. The event that caused Pickett to send his best team to Savannah was the discovery of the body of a local hotel manager that was found washed up on the banks of the Wilmington River. This was not the most significant thing about the body for that would be the fact that it was completely drained of every ounce of blood. Fearing either cult involvement, Satanists, or something of a supernatural kind to be behind this was the purpose of Pendergast and Coldmoon’s presence in Savannah and that body would just be the start in a series of similar grisly discoveries. With Savannah being called the most shadow-haunted place in all America you just know that Preston & Child are going to leverage that fact to the max with a novel called BLOODLESS. The problem Pendergast and Coldmoon will find is that they are not the only ones pursuing what appears to be a great supernatural story. A well-known blogger and cable TV host named Barclay Betts is there with a crew filming throughout Savannah and he is joined by a local spiritualist named Gerhard Moller. Additionally, a local expert in the otherworldly named Daisy Fayette has teamed up with a horror/true crime writer named Francis Wellstone Jr. for their own collaboration. The most sinister of all outside characters is the elderly woman named Miss Frost who resides on the top floor of the place Pendergast, and company are staying at, The Chandler House. Betts is able to get a very willing Pendergast to be interviewed on camera as he peppers him with questions about the Savannah Vampire. Pendergast is extremely willing to participate in anything that could provide answers for this case, and this includes visits to local cemeteries and midnight rendezvous’ at purportedly haunted old churches. While he and Coldmoon are out doing dangerous things, Constance is spending her time at The Chandler House in the hope of getting time with the mysterious Miss Frost. When she does come upon her, those moments are priceless and some of the best parts of the novel. When Pendergast suggests that the alleged killer had the ability to fly it fed into the stories that a sound like flapping wings was overheard by those nearby the bloodless deceased who were scattered around Savannah. Things take a wild turn when Pendergast claims that part of the answer to their case will involve a trip to Portland, Oregon, where he and Coldmoon will need to speak with a couple of important people that will help them complete this puzzle. Keeping the D.B. Cooper in the back of your mind, the connections Pendergast will make during the course of this investigation are nothing short of brilliant. At the heart of the mystery is a device, which I will not reveal here, in which Pendergast claims is the answer to whoever or whatever is plaguing Savannah. BLOODLESS is a pure pleasure to read and it is like candy to fans of great psychological thrillers --- candy which readers will drain every ounce of flavor from in pure delight! Reviewed by Ray Palen for Book Reporter

titular sentence: p284: Several deep grooves raked the wall surrounding the opening, and it was splattered with what appeared to be the same strange lubricant or grease that they's found on the bodies of the bloodless dead. ?: p283: Most everything was covered in moldering sheets, tears here and there exposing the bones of discarded armoires and bedposts. - Is this another this-age colloquialism that I'm not familiar with yet? 'Cause it just doesn't sound right for me. This sucked. Hard. On a serious note, the duo has come full circle and brought us a sequel straight from the Relic playbook. I'll bet this is going to rile up some fans, but I won't with money, at least. Maybe something I don't really own... Okay I was serious for only a second there. (view spoiler) is the funniest AXL Pendergast allusion I've heard in a long time. I kept expecting Armstrong to pick up a crowbar and don a HEV suit (AXL is aptly the G Man while Alanna is Alyx). Yes, I'm looking at you, Gaben.

I couldn't put the book down. The story is original and well told. The style is a bit different too, younger, more energetic than before. This may be one of Preston and Child's best. The only thing that bothered me is the part about a red, radiant cut diamond that belongs to Constance Greene. What happens in relation to that stone makes no sense because that diamond would have been a bright red flag that sent Constance straight to prison, despite the woman's air of authority. It's not that I want to spoil the story for anyone but this isn't the first time Preston and Child write stupidities about gemstones. That being said, I liked the book so much that I'm already on my next P and C novel, the Scorpion's Tail.

Scot Haravth and Solvi are vacationing in Oslo, Norway but it cut short he sees someone getting out of the taxi, I'm only on Chapter 3 but Brad Thor never fails to deliver a nonstop action book

I first started reading BRAD THOR’s books in 2007. Since then, I have read 10 of his Scot Harvath novels. BLACK ICE is number 20 in the series. Mr. Thor just keeps getting better with each story. Some of them are just plain scary, not because of the violence (lots) or undead beasts (none) but because they could happen and probably will. Over the previous couple of books, Harvath, the lead character, has had extreme peaks and valleys in his life. Now, there is a new woman in his world; Solvi is Deputy Director of the Norwegian Intelligence Service. As the story opens, they have just spent the summer together, in and around Oslo, Norway. Scot is recuperating from injuries, mental and physical, suffered in his last assignments. His employer is The Carlton Group, a private security contractor whom the U.S. government hires when they need work done that cannot be traced back to it. The idyllic summer is about end with a resounding crash. The Chinese and the Russians are up to no good in Norway. They are collaborating on a project that will allow their naval ships to be hidden from electronic surveillance. A test of the Chinese-developed system is to take place in extreme northern Norway in Kirkenes, Vardo and the Svalbard archipelago Aligned against Harvath’s team are Han Guang of China and Yevgeny Sarov of Russia. Both men have nasty backgrounds in the world of international security. Another part of the plot involves Xing Fen, China’s Vice-premier, who is the most powerful woman in China. She is trying to steal votes in the U.S. so that China can create a Liquefied Natural Gas company in Alaska. These plots are all tied into to controlling the Arctic Ocean shipping lanes. In addition to Scot and Solvi are the rest of Scot’s team from previous stories. They are men and women culled from U.S. Special Forces – Delta Force, Green Berets, Navy SEALS, Marine Force Recon and the Central Intelligence Agency. They are the best money can buy of brains and brawn. Another enemy that the team faces is Mother Nature and the awful weather conditions that exist in northern Norway even in late summer. A storm is a major obstacle in Scot’s plan to thwart his opponents. As a reader, I even felt it. BRAD THOR is a terrific writer. If you are a fan of spy adventure stories, you need to check out his books. They are at the top of the genre. If you like to know what techno-terror options are on the horizon, you should be reading his books as well. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. GO! BUY! READ!

I always say Brad’s next book is better than the last, and that is the truth again! As much as I loved Scot Harvath on his own with nothing to lose, it was a lot of fun to have him back in a really good place. The main cast of characters never disappoint and we got some really fun introductions to a few characters I really hope to see again in future novels! As for the rest of it, troubling things get set in motion very quickly and seem to slowly unfold over the story. Scot really has no idea what he has gotten himself and his team into, but I can guarantee you’re going to have a blast going along on the ride with him!

Really enjoyed this one. From the scenic Norwegian setting and cultural nuances, the political intrigue, as well as the furthering romantic interests, this book paints a story that kept me interested on multiple levels. There is plenty of action, maybe not as much as previous books, but still plenty. Character development, even for those with smaller roles, is well done yet again by Thor. I have really enjoyed everything Scot Harvath so far. On to the next one.

Worth waiting for This is the best book of the year. After reading so many other authors Brad Thor is still the master and Scott Harvath is still the best operative America has. With the smoothness of James Bond combined with the ruthlessness and tenacity of a Navy Seal, Scott Harvath is the one we need protecting America’s interests from enemies of the foreign and domestic kind. You can only hope that there are real hero’s in the Washington DC swamp that will someday bring honor and integrity back to our country. Black Ice is a classic. Can’t wait for the next book from Brad Thor.

Scot Harvath is having his best summer ever. With a cottage on the fjord, a boat, and his beautiful girlfriend Sølvi, he’s got everything he could possibly want. But out of vacation days and long overdue back home, America’s top spy has a decision to make—return, or submit his resignation. When his deadly past comes calling, though, he’ll be left with no choice at all. Leaving his favorite Oslo café, Harvath watches as a ghost climbs out of a taxi—a man he killed years ago, halfway around the world. How is he still alive? And what is he doing in Norway? In a race against time that will take him high above the Arctic Circle, Harvath will be tested in ways he has never imagined and pushed to a limit few human beings could ever endure. If he succeeds, he’ll walk away with everything. If he fails, the United States and its allies will be at the mercy of one of the world’s most dangerous actors

As a thriller novel I would give give Black Ice three stars. I felt this book wasn't one of Brad Thor's best. However the reason for the five stars is the articles and policy papers that Brad Thor read while conducting research to write this novel. They were very interesting. If you subscribe to his social media accounts you receive links to this research. As a result of reading those articles as well as the way the author summarizes them in the novel, I now have a better understanding of the important role the Arctic Circle plays in the national security of the United States. I was aware of the threat that the melting of the polar ice caps presented to the climate but now I also understand the geopolitical and national security threats the melting presents.

9 out of 10 stars. As with most other writers the last two years, the books are shorter. I have been trying to figure out if the publishers are conserving paper with less pages, want to put less work in editing, or who knows what. The actions in this book are shorter, but the descriptions of the Arctic are a bit more detailed---makes me definitely want to stay away and head for the tropical beaches. I liked the story, so I enjoyed the book.

Great read! Definitely a page turner!

In this 20th Scot Harvath book the tension starts to build on the first page and does not let up (I knew this for sure when I realized it was 2:30 a.m. and I could not find a good place to pause in my reading) until the last sentence. What more do you need to know ? The action crackles from Norway to north of the Arctic Circle to China with a bit of Russia and to the United States and elsewhere around the world. Is there a con here, too ? Aficionados of Cold War spy (and assassin - after all, let’s be realistic) adventures must read this book.

Badass Brad Thor is the master of the special operator genre. Bravo to another great novel. Looking forward to the next one.

One of the best Brad Thor novels. Not as much action but the plot makes up for it. The dialogue between characters is also top notch. A must read for thriller fans

My choice for best historical fiction at Goodreads choice awards 2022! I think my eyes are bleeding. They cried themselves to death. They cannot function properly anymore. My heart hurts. It is already broken. My tears drained. I cannot gather my emotions anymore because they’re at everywhere. This is real heart ripping, soul crushing and truly earth shattering, shaking you to the core reading experience! Ms. Hannah did it again! She shattered my soul in tiny pieces and captured my heart as like she did with Nightingale, Great Alone, Firefly Lane. I turned into a human mash and I don’t know how long I find the strength to turn back to my normal self! This book takes place in 1930’s Texas: the time of Dust Bowl, Stock Market Crash, the very same time of people who suffer from poverty, homelessness, despair, starvation. They lost their hopes and own paths, struggling, grief stricken, witnessing to lose everything they’d worked for! These are toughest times to test people’s patience and survival skills. Elsa Martinelli has to make a choice like her neighbors do: she may stay with her two kids and fight for her land or go west to settle in California for better life opportunities. Her life can never be defined as a fairytale. Till her childhood times she has been forced to be a survivor, a fighter. She fought with serious illness, she worked hard to earn love of her parents who never respected or accepted who she is. And after getting pregnant she was forced to marry a man she didn’t love. But with her marriage, she earned a real family: devoted support of in-laws: Rose and Tony. For the first time she realized how to be loved from deep in your heart. Once upon a time, she was a loner, introverted bookworm girl but times have changed, everything became tougher. The circumstances pushed her grown up faster and wear her big girl pants to adjust the new reality of her new life. So she raises from her ashes by turning herself a hard working farmer and a great mother. She can do anything for the love of her kids. Maybe the wrong thought patterns she inherited from her judgmental parents made her think she was not strong woman but she couldn’t be so wrong. She is tough, brave, kind hearted and a true fighter. It’s impossible not to respect and love her. She is one of the best characters Ms. Hannah created. I don’t want to give much spoiler not to ruin your reading experience but I have to say, this is not easy, soft journey for you. It will shake you, break you, hurt you, slap you, crash you. It’s so effective, tremendously heartbreaking because it’s honest and realistic. The tragedies people face, the despair, grief, hunger, powerlessness test their mental and physical strength. It’s poetic, shocking, heart wrenching, tear jerking, poignant! I have no words left. I am human shell right now. This book took away all the words from my mouth. I can only say I loved it so much even though it hurt me a lot. Special thanks to NetGalley and St. Martin’s Press for sharing another fantastic Kristin Hannah’s book’s arc copy with me in exchange my honest opinions. instagram facebook twitter

Four things you’ll want to do after finishing The Four Winds: 1. Drink a ginormous glass of water. Kristin Hannah has created such a vivid portrait of the American Dust Bowl in the 1930s that you can almost feel the dirt in the back of your throat. It’s hard to imagine the ground being so dry and the weather so ferocious that you could catch dust pneumonia, yet you’ll believe it after only a few pages. 2. Look up photos of the farmers and migrants of the era. You can probably close your eyes and easily picture the famous “Migrant Mother” portrait taken by Dorothea Lange in 1936, but it took me reading this book to really grasp the helplessness of her situation. 3. Hug your mom. The relationships between our heroine Elsa and the women above and below her on her family tree are touching and unexpected. The ties that bind them together are at turns solid as the ground beneath them or frail as the animals on their land. 4. Read everything Kristin Hannah has ever written. I’m one of the rare souls who didn’t adore The Nightingale, but The Four Winds has solidified her “must read” author status with me once and for all. I’m grateful to St. Martin’s Press and Ms. Hannah for the opportunity to read and review an advanced copy via NetGalley. Blog: www.confettibookshelf.com

all done. my heart = 💔

Many went west to search for a better life but their American dreams became nightmares by poverty, hardship and greed. The past few years have been a time for things lost: jobs, homes and food. A man has to fight out there to make a living and women of The Great Plains worked from sun up to sun down too. When they close their eyes they can still taste the dust. Millions are out of work and there is a drought. The water is drying up and the sun burns down on all the crops, especially the wheat. They lose their crops. Dust threatens to bury them all. This is the dust bowl era which has arrived with a vengeance, one of the darkest periods of The Great Depression. So Elsa Martinelli takes her children West to California where there is lots of work for everyone and a better life, the American Dream. Every time I open up a Kristin Hannah book and start reading it, I get excited because her books are usually all five star books. I loved The Nightingale. If you love historical fiction, I think you will love her too. I just loved this book. I fell in love with the characters. My heart went out to Elsa. She grew up feeling unloved and her parents gave her a self image that she was plain and forgotten. But she then meets a farmer and finds happiness with his family. When she moves to California she finds herself and her children in poverty and hunger. Everyone there is prejudiced and they don't welcome migrants there and they call them Okies. Elsa was such a strong female character. If you aren't a historical fiction fan, I still think you will love it because it was such a great story and it is beautifully written. I want to thank Netgalley, St. Martin's Press and the author for the copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Available Now!

I am lost for words such a beautiful heartbreaking story.

5/5 ⭐️ - This book had so much depth and made me feel so many emotions! I haven’t cried, laughed, and connected with characters in a book like I have in this one in so long. The characters truly felt so real and now I have a deep appreciation for historical fiction which is WILD coming from a romance girlie like me. - I haven’t stopped thinking about this book since I finished it and it’s made me so grateful for the life I live with food, water, and a roof over my head. It’s so easy to want more and more, but this book really put into perspective the most important things in life. - I immediately did a deep dive into the history of the dust bowl and Great Depression after reading this. I definitely want to read more books by this author and more historical fiction. Kristin Hannah’s writing deserves all the hype it gets!!

Absolutely loved this one from Kristin Hannah. Every book of hers is my favourite. A must read for sure.

This book, like most of this authors books, is a gut punch. 😢💔 This takes place during the American Great Depression. Focused on the farmers strife during this time specifically. While it was a depressing read, my heart appreciated the mother’s point of view. 👩‍👧‍👦

Kristin Hannah is one of the best authors alive. My review could probably stop there, but good golly, what a book! What a book! As with what is perhaps my favorite book of all time—The Nightingale—The Four Winds is a story of survival against the odds. Starting in 1930, Elsa Martinelli was doing well enough, despite a marriage she didn’t particularly want. But she finds a sense of family with her in-laws. Then comes the Dust Bowl, the stock market crash and the Depression come crashing into her world, and Elsa must choose between staying and striking out for California to carve a better life for her children, facing incredible hardship, bleak poverty and sickness. The Four Winds, which came out this past spring, is also oddly prescient of today’s struggles in America. A pandemic in the form of “dust pneumonia,” a divided nation suspicious of outsiders, unemployment, poverty…this is not an easy read. But it’s a magnificent read, a story of resilience, endurance and friendship and the amazing, indomitable power of a woman on a mission.

This book is delightfully depressing! I loved every dirt filled tear pulling chapter. The anguish and despair kept me coming back for more. But the love through tumulus struggle after struggle is why this is a 5 star story. I highly recommend this book!!!

What a book, what a story. I haven't read a lot about the depression era, so this was very interesting and also heartwrenching. Kristin Hannah never disappoints

What an epic drama! It’s heartbreaking and powerful. This book offered me everything that I look for in a book. This is not the first time that I say this, but I have no words to describe the pleasure I have when a book is able to make me oblivious of my surroundings. All my emotions where evoked. Goosebumps all over. The writing is simply superb. The development of the storyline is skillfully written. Yes, it is depressing, but the amount of love and hope that jumps out of the pages is priceless. It’s a historical fiction that covers the Great Depression and the Dust Bowl period, one of the darkest period in the USA, and the migration of the residents of those states affected by the dust storms to California, during the 1930s. Looking back we should all feel grateful for the changes of time, and also learn not to take everything for granted. This is a book that will stay with me for a very long time. While reading the book I simultaneously listened to the audiobook narrated by Julian Whelan, which was a terrific addition to my pleasure. This narrator really brought the story to life and her emotional rendering can make you cry. If you are into audiobooks, I do recommend this one. I’m still learning to enjoy an audiobook on its own and this one could do the trick.

Kristin Hannah is undeniably queen of historical dramas for me. No one serves such poignant stories based on unknown historical challenges. For me it wasn't just women's perspective on the Great Depression. A lot of things described here were completely new to me. And surprisingly relevant for our time. Like, ecological catastrophe, workers’ rights, but most importantly what seems to be unending hatred on immigrants. Even if they migrated from the neighbouring states. The plot is gripping, and the characters are great. Although very depressing, the book is about hope and resilience and the power to fight the injustice. Truly inspiring. In general, another author's masterpiece. If you read her other books, you know what to expect.

THE FOUR WINDS, by Kristin Hannah, is a book we’ve all been waiting for. It gives you the intensity and emotional punch that only Hannah can deliver. Have lots of tissues nearby. Kristin has taken the story of the Great Migration of the Dust Bowl and, unlike The Grapes of Wrath, put women at its very heart. This is a book of its time, and one you’ll remember long after.

⭐️5 Stars⭐️ Wow an outstanding read and destined to be another bestseller for author Kristin Hannah! The Four Winds will crush your soul, it’s such a captivating and emotional family saga of survival and loss. The story is vividly told in the eyes of Elsa Martinelli a woman with a sad and scandalous past and is set in the time of ‘The Great Depression’ in Texas, USA. After Elsa’s husband flees his family she too has to make a difficult choice. Does she stay at the family wheat farm battling the brutality of Mother Nature, bad agriculture and the harsh dry land or like many of her neighbours escape leaving everything behind to seek a better life with her children in California. California is known as the land of milk and honey, where there is opportunity and hope. Due to life threatening circumstances the decision is made for her. In California Elsa is faced with poverty, hunger, grief, prejudice, hate, exploitation and danger. Her people are not welcomed anymore as California is being overwhelmed by too many people searching for work. The migrants are unkindly known as ‘Okies” and treated like outcasts, suffering inequality in pay and refused treatment at hospitals because they don’t pay taxes. Elsa is a hard working and resilient woman who doesn't believe in handouts, a ‘warrior’ who'll sacrifice anything for her children and ensure they have a good future. As we learn throughout the story humans need compassion, strength, resilience, love and each other to survive in troubled times. A totally vivid and captivating read and a powerful look at a dark and defining era in American history, an unforgettable read and truly recommended.

Forgotten in Death by J. D. Robb (pseudonym for Nora Roberts) brings murder, romance and suspense to a well-written futuristic police procedural set in New York City during the spring of 2061. What happens when the past and the present collide? This story starts with our protagonist, Lieutenant Eve Dallas of the NYC police department, being called to a construction site crime scene. Joined by her partner, Detective Delia Peabody, they find the body of a woman without a fixed address who kept the local cops informed of any rule violations she witnessed on the street. While working the crime scene, Eve is called away, to a nearby building site where bones decades old have been found. It turns out that the site is one Eve’s husband, Roarke, has purchased and is starting to develop. Time spent with Eve, Roarke, and Eve’s colleagues is always entertaining. Eve is definitely a compelling and three-dimensional character. Her need to serve and protect comes through in every book, but the underlying impetus for this is best understood by reading this series in order. Due to the way Eve was raised, she often doesn’t understand commonly used phrases and this comes into play a few times in this book making her seem more real and less perfect. As always, the interactions between Eve and Roarke are enjoyable and bring a different facet of Eve’s personality to light. Many of the reoccurring police characters play significant roles in this book. However, readers also get to see a bit of their private lives. The prose is well-written, entertaining, and engaging. This time Eve’s passion for justice and those that need help pushes the story beyond finding a single murderer, to taking down those that preyed on others. The plot is thought-provoking and tragic. While this book has some action, it is mostly a police procedural until the ending. It is appalling in places and uplifting in others. Robb manages to embed humor in her novels, providing some much needed levity to offset some of the more serious and grim aspects of the story. She brings strong characters, great plots, wonderful relationships, and excellent pacing to this series. Themes include murder, justice, family dynamics, domestic abuse, racism, infidelity, lies, cover-ups, and intolerance of others, as well as standing up for the innocent and the dead. If you enjoy engaging near-future police procedurals with some romance and humor, then I recommend this series. This is the fifty-third book in the In Death Eve Dallas series and I have read all of them up to this point. Overall, it is entertaining, and over time, it is like spending time with old friends. I can’t wait to read the next book in the series. St. Martin’s Press and J.D. Robb provided a digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own and are not biased in any way. Publication date is scheduled for September 7, 2021. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine.

Lieutenant Eve Dallas is called to the scene of a construction site where the body of a woman was found in a dumpster. As she and her partner Detective Delia Peabody are beginning their investigation, someone from an adjacent construction project comes for their help. They’ve discovered remains at the bottom of a building they were demolishing and reconstructing. It’s clear the bones have been there since the original construction but it becomes even more tragic when they see tinier bones there, too. Things are even more complicated when Eve learns that second site is now owned by her husband, Roarke. I knew from the onset these were going to be challenging investigations and that proved true. Since both building sites were originally developed during the immediate aftermath of the Urban Wars, we get more information about that mysterious period in the series mythical history. Eve is determined to discover the identity of the remains found in that building and unlocking the secrets that led to them being buried and hidden there for decades. The woman found in the dumpster also has a secret past so in addition to solving the crimes of who killed these women, she has to first learn who they really were before their deaths, why they seemed to have been forgotten. I always love being back in the world of Eve Dallas and this time it was exceptionally satisfying. The suspects were particularly vile and the procedurals leading towards their capture were classic. But, even more satisfying was how they were brought to justice. The interview sessions were outstanding, the highlight of the story, in addition to the backstories of the victims unleashing provocative pasts. We also get some updates as to what’s going on in the new house being renovated for Mavis & Leonardo and Peabody & McNab. Once they’re done, that promises to add even more dimension to the stories going forward. This was another wonderful installment to the series and I continue to be surprised that it’s still fresh after so many books. The characters continue to grow, mature and evolve, which keeps me coming back for more. Posted on Blue Mood Café

Another very good book in this series! I love this world and all the characters therein! On the contrary to other similar series (yes, I'm looking at the Fatal series here...) this has not become mushy! It's still fresh and all the characters are happily married/involved, but it doesn't exaggerate their feeling and the dialogue is logical. Tehy don't run arroung professing their undying love and devotion! OK, OK, I'll cut it short... sorry... As usual Eve gets her murder, but while on site of that one she gets another! So she has to solve them both. I'll not spoil the book, but it was instsresting to see how she solves them! It's not as complicated as some other Eve's cases, but it was still interesting. The writing is still good and easy. We get to visit with all the other characters except Mavis, Leonardo and Bella, even if Leonardo is mentioned in passing... Oh... now I have to wait again or the next one... Noooooo!!!

Actual rating: 4.5 stars, rounded up. Do you have a series that, no matter how many installments the author writes, you don’t see yourself ever getting tired of the story or the setting or the characters? That’s Nora’s In Death series, under her pen name of J.D. Robb, for me. There are now 53 novels, not counting novellas and short stories, in this series and, while not every single installment has blown me away, I always enjoy getting to catch up with characters who now feel more real to me than some of the actual living, breathing people in my life. This particular story was a bit different in that it was really two different mysteries, neither of which would have been quite enough to fill out a novel by itself. But Nora managed to weave the two together seamlessly, and the combination was far more interesting than either mystery would have been on its own. One crime, the very recent murder of a homeless woman, results in Eve being on the scene when another, far older crime is uncovered on a construction site during demolition. The way Eve, and through her the author, manages to juggle these two radically different cases, committed almost 4 decades apart, was fascinating to watch. While the cases were interesting, and both of them managed to tug on the heartstrings in different ways, the plot wasn’t what kept me involved. As always with this series, that honor goes to the characters. I’ve come to love this cast of characters, both Eve and Roarke and their ever-expanding group of friends and coworkers and found families. Watching as they slowly transition into new stages of live, so slowly that they themselves don’t observe what the reader can see, is always a delight. Each installment feels like a chance to catch up with old friends. There’s a huge comfort element to any series that goes on this long, even when the central plot always hinges on murder. I have nothing new or original to say about this book. It was exactly what I was hoping it would be, and I’m already looking forward to the next time I get to catch up with Eve and Roarke and Peabody and the rest of the gang.

The first book in this series was in reader’s hands in 1995...so we are still here 26 years later following the lives of Eve, Roark, Peabody,, McNab and all those other wonderful familiar characters that make this one of the top series in the entire country. You would think that J.D. Robb (Nora Roberts) would run out of ideas and bad guys for our Eve to find and arrest. Set 40 years into the future...we, in 2021 can with a doubt be assured that Eve & Peabody has surely got them all either behind bars or “off planet” when we get there. I really think that I could handle drinking soda out of a tube and I want one of those Auto Chef coffee dispensers. Back to Eve’s case (s) ...we actually have two and the thing that seems to disturb Eve the most is the cruelty of the killings. An elderly victim is disposed of in a dumpster and a woman and her fetus is found sealed in a wall... and that murder is proved to have happen 40 years in the past...our time. Eve sets a fast pace finding the killer with her usual skill and ferocity. I have always found the interview scenes between Eve and the suspects are some of the best parts of all the stories. You better believe that no one will be “Forgotten In Death” on Eve’s watch. Another great addition. Keep them coming, Ms. Robb!

No, I don't plan to finish this book. But yes, it's good, showing every sign of being crafted like all the rest of the J.D. Robb thrillers that star Lt. Eve Dallas. LET ME EXPLAIN Listening to this as an audiobook, I bailed after the start of Disk 5. One of the familiar themes in this series is the horrible abuse suffered by Dallas, and her husband Roarke, during their childhoods. Another familiar theme is how the super-detective "stands for the dead," protectively seeking justice for murder victims. All of this being familiar and fine, among plenty of other themes in this series. SO WHAT WAS THE PROBLEM WITH THIS ONE? This time, the body was found in a dumpster. Details unfold about abuse, and more abuse, and yet more victim-type living. In this book, seems like, this isn't just one of the themes. Rather, the rest of the book is going to be an elaboration on this theme. MY CONCLUSION May this book interest and/or comfort those who need precisely this kind of thriller about victimization. Fortunately for this Goodreader, I don't.

Book #53 in the Naked in Death series by J.D. Rob, Forgotten in Death has two somewhat connected dead bodies that appear in the first two chapters. A homeless woman's body is discovered in a dumpster at a building site...and nearby, another forgotten lady and her unborn baby are discovered deep within a building that is being demolished and restored. Eve Dallas is the pro at finding out how they are connected. I do not know how she manages to keep all these characters straight, but she does an excellent job at writing out characters that are easy to visualize. I love the futuristic setting in a somewhat familiar New York City... and how Eve Dallas finds the solace in coming home to recharge for another day of kicking butt. I have read this series from the beginning and love it! I would say this is my favorite series! Eve finds justice for the victims that she claims as hers...and does not let go until the mystery is solved. Well done murder mystery! Also, side note I am loving the character development as we get to see the characters that are in the book series grow.

This was another one that was firing on all cylinders for me - the poor homeless woman, the poor long-dead pregnant woman. In the end interrogation of the bad guy ... man I just wanted Eve to punch that fucking horrible person in the throat.

4.5/5 stars….just shy of the 5th star IMO; a little too pat/rushed. Still, another excellent installment in the long standing series! Love these characters wholeheartedly!!!

This series is simply amazing! Forgotten in Death, the stellar fifty-third offering in the In Death series continues to impress, entertain and shock me. This series gives no indication that it is starting to wind down, which is excellent for the many fans of this series as we have not yet begun to get enough of Eve Dallas and the equally wonderful cast of characters. These characters are so well developed through this series that the reader feels a deep connection with them. The reader cannot help but care about what happens to them and time spent with them is always a joy. After fifty-three installments of this futuristic series, one cannot help but think Eve has pretty much seen it all. Nothing should come as a surprise or shock to Eve. In the relatively short time she has been a homicide cop, she has been thrust into the underbelly of New York City. She has seen the worst humanity is capable of. I wouldn’t say this case is any different than those she has undertaken, but it serves as a reminder just how cruel, selfish and heartless mankind can be and, often, are. While investigating the apparent random murder of a homeless woman, Eve is called to an excavation site at a nearby building where the skeletal remains of an adult and an infant are discovered. Adding to the issue is that her Irish hottie husband, Roarke owns this building doesn’t surprise Eve as he pretty much owns the planet, but it does create snags. I loved the way Eve tackles both of these cases. Her determination to not only find the killer of the homeless woman, but she is also determined to lay some punishment on the ex-husband who brutally abused her years before. Eve is convinced that the acts of domestic abuse are what set this woman on a path that led to her eventual murder, so to Eve’s way of thinking, it’s connected. Additionally, the discovery of decades old remains don’t stop Eve in her tracks. Her methodical approach to uncovering not only the identity of the victims, but her ability to quickly analyze and piece together the forensic evidence is simply brilliant. In addition to the characters, the reader can connect and empathize with, J.D. Robb creates a futuristic New York City, circa early 2060. I get such a kick out of what this world entails, including prisons that are off-planet, cars that fly, Pepsi that comes in a tube and full course meals delivered through a machine called an auto-chef. This time period is not too far away from the time period I live in. I can only hope that some of these amazing things will sprout from J.D. Robb’s imagination into reality. With the exception of the first few books in this series, I have gone with the audiobook format narrated by Susan Ericksen. Her performance adds to the enjoyment of this series with the various voices and emotions displayed by the characters. The realism she gives to these characters gives the reader a sense of being in the room with these characters, witnessing first-hand the eyerolls, the body language and Jenkinson’s eye-blinding ties. The best part of this series and this story in particular occurs when Eve goes in for the apprehension of the killers. Her tenacity and dogged determination make for a supremely satisfying conclusion to a hard-hitting story, leaving the reader excited for the next book. My Final Verdict: An excellent series that I highly recommend to fans of the mystery, thriller, police procedural and urban fantasy genres that need to be read in order.

It's both thrilling and frustrating to have a stack of pre-release books from publishers that I've agreed to read and review on or before their release dates. Some are from well-known authors, while others bring the excitement of being introduced to a wonderful new author or series hero or heroine. The frustration, though, comes because having at least a couple of books a week in that aforementioned list leaves too little time for me to enjoy my "regular" favorites like this one. This is the 53rd book in the series, and I doubt I've missed more than a couple over the years - so devil-may-care person that I am, I squeezed it in. And as usual, it's a satisfying few days in the life of New York homicide detective Eve Dallas, who lives with her hunky, uber-rich Irish husband Roarke along with a handsome cat and (to Eve) an annoying house major domo. That the books are set in the not-too-distant future - this one in 2061 - adds plenty of opportunity to throw in details like cars that can be driven vertical, bullet-proof garments and AutoChef machines that serve up whatever foods and drinks the owners might want. As this one begins, Eve is called to a crime scene at which a woman's body was found in a dumpster. A quick look tells Eve she was a "sidewalk sleeper" - what is known in 2021 as a homeless person - but she's also one who was well liked by those who met her, including local beat cops. The dumpster is close to a construction site owned by a highly successful company now run by something like the fourth family generation. Then, Eve must visit another construction site and the body of another female; this time, though, it's just bones - plus the remains of an almost full-term infant. There's another difference: This time, it's at a construction site owned by Roarke, and the victim's identity isn't known. Never one to believe in coincidence, Eve wonders if there's a connection - but if there is, it's elusive. But when Eve learns that there's a Russian mob connection in the mix, the situation takes a more sinister turn as she and her trusty cohort, the everything pink-loving Dehlia Peabody, try to solve both crimes (with some high-tech help from Roarke). All in all, another entertaining adventure, although I'd like to have seen more interaction with my favorite characters Roarke and PD psychologist Mira. Still, love it I did. Now, the only problem is waiting until I can get my hands on the 54th book.

5 Solid Stars and 2 thumbs up! Reading an In Death book is like coming home! Excellent addition to the series - it's a must read!

Eve is called to the scene of the murder of a homeless woman knows to the cops of the area as a woman who offered paper flowers to people in return for some spare change. She was also known to write down infractions - rule breaking - and bring them to the attention of the police. As Eve investigates the woman's death - Alva Quirk by name - she is called to another scene. Bones of a woman and fetus were found in the demolition of a building site that Roarke's company is rehabbing. Since Dr. DeWinter - forensic anthropologist - has to do her magic to identify that woman, Eve is concentrating on Alva. She brings in Roarke to help identify her since her ID is bogus. Medical examination indicates that she had likely suffered abuse in her younger years which causes a resonance with Eve's own past. While identifying who murdered her now, Eve is also determined to find and bring down the person who abused her in the past. Both sites where bodies were found belong to, or belonged to, the Singer family who had a connection with a Russian mobster that went back decades. As Eve looks into the Singer's business dealings, she gets much closer to solving both crimes. I enjoyed this episode in the long-running In Death series even though it lacked some of the banter between Eve and Peabody and Eve and Roarke that were hallmarks of earlier books. It was still an engaging and intense episode.

Bookish Books Reading Challenge & #LibraryLoveChallenge

FORGOTTEN IN DEATH, J. D. Robb’s 53rd novel featuring Lt. Eve Dallas, opens with the discovery of the body of a homeless woman in a dumpster at a building site. The construction crew reports that she was known for keeping an eye on the neighborhood and tracking suspicious activity in notebooks. Eve and her investigative team at the New York Police and Security Department suspect that the woman, Alva Quirk, must have seen something that got her killed. While Eve and her colleagues survey the crime scene, human remains are found in the Hudson Yards construction site nearby. The demolition of an old building uncovers a skeleton encased in an old wine bar. Tragically, the remains appear to be those of a pregnant woman. It turns out that the crime scene is owned by none other than Eve’s husband, Roarke, who is immediately notified. Roarke joins the investigation as Eve and the NYPSD experts begin forensic research into the history of the buildings, search for financial records and missing persons reports, attempt to identify the remains through DNA, and determine the cause of death for both victims. The techs are also working on creating an image from the skeletal remains, even though they are decades old. Once the victims are identified, Eve begins to piece together the lives of both women. Alva was abused by her spouse and escaped using a new identity. Eve finds her siblings and learns more about her story, including that her ex-husband was a cop and is now the chief of police in a rural town far away. Could he have used his professional connections to track her down and kill her? And who had access to the construction site where she was found? The investigation then leads Eve to the Singer company, owners of the first construction site where Alva was found and the land that Roarke bought for his Hudson Yards construction project. Information is also discovered that ties the Singers to the Russian mafia. The skeletal remains of the pregnant woman are identified as Johara Murr, who might be connected to the Singers as well. Name and reputation are everything to the matriarch of this powerful family. Eve starts to dig into their background and discovers that the Singers have plenty to hide. The plight of these women starts to take a personal toll on Eve, a survivor of childhood abuse. The victims deserve justice, and Eve is determined to make that happen. Not only will she uncover and apprehend whoever committed the murders, she will not let their suffering go unpunished. FORGOTTEN IN DEATH is one of J. D. Robb’s best books. The interview scenes between Eve and the suspects are some of the finest moments in the story. Robb has created an iconic female protagonist in the mystery/thriller genre, imbuing Eve with heroism, personal and professional values, intelligence, and an individual flair that makes her especially memorable. Readers can rely on Eve to keep evil at bay and deliver justice in every action-packed adventure. Reviewed by Jennifer McCord

Thank you, St. Martin's Press for the ARC! Every time I read the new book in the series I say it's my favorite. But this? This one is absolutely amazing. Eve Dallas is back and she's better than ever! Of course, we get to visit with her entire squad and characters that have become like family. JD Robb is a master in her craft. This one has it all. It sucks you in from the start and doesn't let go. It has humor, mystery, those familiar thrills, and of course the hottest romantic scenes only JD can create. Definitely, a must-read. Eve and her team take us on an unforgettable ride as she unravels the mystery of her latest case. After reading the previous 52, this one had a different feel to it. It touched me in ways the other books have not. Maybe it was the victim or maybe I enjoyed the way Eve and her team handled this one. Or maybe is the fact that JD Robb's writing is now as familiar to me as the characters she created. In any case, I find the title of the book ironic because I read this one in one sitting a couple of weeks ago and I cannot let it go. Amazing.

Vivid characters brought fully to life with an outstanding narrator on the audiobook makes this a must listen series for me! This 53rd book in the series just keeps the good times rolling and the entertainment abounds while our favorite characters work to solve several recent homicides along with an almost 40 year old case. Excellent to the last word and I can't wait for the next book to come out on audio!

Loved this one.

Forgotten in Death by J.D.Robb is the 53rd book in the In Death series. Lieutenant Eve Dallas is attending a body dumped in a dumpster at a construction site when she is called to another site nearby where human bones had been unearthed. Another fabulous book in this long running and addictive series. The best part is catching up with all the characters and seeing them develop and this time we become involved in the building of the house that Mavis, Leonardo, Peabody and McNab will share. An outstanding and captivating thriller with plenty of action and humour.

It is so difficult for me to think that if I want to re-read this series right from the very first book in the series and I only read one book a week, it will take me a full year to accomplish !!! This book #53 in the series has to be among my favorites. There is a wonderful lack of padding, very little angst on Eves' part, minimal bloodshed, and a distinct lack of coffee discussion! However, I was a tad disappointed that our favorite secondary characters don't show up as often or for as long as in other books. This makes the reader focus more on Dallas and Peabody to have center stage with Roarke a close second. The mystery is nicely twisty, and actually, there are two mysteries in one! I wish that Ms. Robb would write a novella about the Urban Wars, why they happened, and what it did to the big cities.

I adored this book. Here is the thing about Outlander. My mom read the books in the late 1990s, and got my grandpa and me both hooked on them. Which means I have been reading these books for at least 20 years (more than half of my life). I love them. I don't just love them -- they're a living part of my life. Now there's the TV show and a lot more people know about them. Which is fantastic! And a lot of people (including the author!) seem to like the show (which is great!) I don't, and here's why. My favorite things in Outlander are not the things that happen but the characters and the way Gabaldon writes about them. From the show, and the "just like Game of Thrones!" advertising around it, people seem to focus on the sex and the violence. However, those, to me, are the least important parts of the books. I read these books because they are wonderful to live in. Honestly, I occasionally skim the sex and violence. Those aren't the heart of the story. Gabaldon is an ecologist, and she writes like one. Her books are rich with detail, with nature, and with the small and wonderful stories that happen all around us all the time. (What shall we make for dinner? Are there enough clothes clean? Is the horse's hoof a disaster or just a rock? Why is the floor so dirty? Did someone let the fire go out?) These intimate details, the tiny bits of historical accuracy, the wonderful way she embraces all her characters: That, to me, is what makes the books worth reading. A lot of people get hung up on reading The Fiery Cross I think because that's where the books start to slow down. It's one of my favorites of the books for that reason. Go Tell the Bees that I Am Gone is in that vein. It's not as breakneck as An Echo in the Bone, and I love it more. I adore these books. I love Gabaldon's work. I love Brianna and Roger and John and Fergus and Marsali and Jenny and William and Ian and Rachel and Claire and Jamie and Lord John and Hal and Clarence the mule, and all the dogs and horses and kids. I love the characters, I love the details, I love the life Gabaldon breathes into the stories. These are some of my favorite books in which to live.

Well... wow. Just wow. 6/5 ... like it could be anything else..

I impatiently waited for this to come to print and now we begin the wait again for what I believe will be the final installment. Sigh. The nature of reading for me is to become deeply absorbed into the created world so much so that you laugh with them, cry with them, feel the joy and grief and everything in between. The action shifts up and down the Atlantic seaboard, as characters from past volumes reappear, die, are kidnapped, or are healed by Claire's medical knowledge, while new family members are born or adopted. Fans of the series should be pleased by new developments, but now must begin the long wait for the conclusion in number 10. Diana Gabaldon is a master at it. I had to take breaks while reads to try to settle from the wealth of emotions this storytelling evoked and yet at the same time needed to know what came next. There are a couple high-tension moments that make me worry for the fate of the Ridge, and a bit more development into speculation as to how the whole time travel thing works. This series started out life I believe as a creating of cross stitch and without doubt all the threads are coming together. A wonderful book I'm sorry to have finished.

Outstanding! Spellbinding, as usual. I could not put the book down. I loved the continued character development, the suspense and the historical fiction of the novels. Of course, I continue to love Jamie and Claire!

Seven YEARS, Five MONTHS and Thirteen DAYS - the wait is finally over! Roger, Bree and their kids are back on Fraser’s Ridge and America’s war for Independence is looming. Jamie and Claire are thrilled with the return of their family and circumspect about the impending future as the issues attendant to war impact life on Fraser’s Ridge. All the folks I’ve been waiting to hear about arrive during this 900+ page “monster”. It’s a great reunion with new twists, long awaited resolutions, new friends and a few sad departures. What’s not sad is that after 33 years since being introduced to Jamie & Claire, the story will continue! One brief moment from the book to tantalize: Jamie gets himself into a life and death situation, (like that’s no big surprise), everyone has decided to to transport his body home before the skirmish is over, everyone but Claire; she’s got another idea; also no surprise, or is it?!? Unless you’ve been living under a rock, you’ve heard about THE OUTLANDER SERIES. “ Go Tell the Bees That I Am Gone” in book Nine in this remarkable, historical fiction masterpiece. I raced thru, well, because I just had to know what happened after waiting for that interminable expanse of time. Now, I’m going back to savor every word and phrase and begin the longing process all over again; reminding myself to be grateful another “monster” is in the making; Best Book of fiction this year. BTW, “monster” is the descriptor used by DG for these weighty volumes. Make sure to read her notes at the close of this one, even her notes are amazing 📚

Magnificent!! I truly loved “Go Tell the Bees that I am Gone.” We again meet the characters from other Outlander books and they’re woven nicely into the story. The first third of the story was a bit slow because Gabaldon was re-introducing old characters. However, about halfway through, the book exploded and the pace was fantastic and I was at the edge of my seat. I love this book, long as it was.

I love this series so much that I've tried the audio version this time. I was not impressed with the narrator, which makes it a bit hard to go through nearly 50 hours of audio.🥴😴 Otherwise, I enjoyed it very much, only hoping there was more about Claire and Jamie and the Ridge Folk ( what about Lizzie and the Beardsley brothers??!!! That was juice stuff right there!)and less about William, who by now is my least favorite character. All that angst and endless brooding have become annoying after a while ( a long while, I must say). Of course, the book ends on a major cliffhanger and we are left to suffer for years until the next - and last! 😱😭- settlement of this series. Can't wait! 😍

Diana Gabaldon never ceases to rip me apart and put me back together over and over and over and over again. 9 books in, I didn’t know it was possible to love Jamie and Claire even more. But here I am.

Diana Gabaldon has brought Jamie and Claire Fraser (and the Fraser’s Ridge crew) back to us in “Go Tell the Bees That I am Gone”, the ninth instalment of the beloved (especially by me) “Outlander” series. Jamie and Claire are once again reunited with their daughter, Bree, and her family, living on Fraser’s Ridge in 1779. But the American Revolution is brewing, and even their quiet home in North Carolina won’t be spared from war. Jamie’s alliances are once again torn and Claire feels that this time, Jamie won’t make it home from another battle. With Roger a newly minted Presbyterian minister, he will have to serve the hurt and dying, leaving Bree home to handle the property and their children. But Jamie and Claire know the outcome of the war, with specific details thanks to the work of Claire’s late husband, Frank, but do they know enough to change the fate of those they love? With another whopper of a novel (over 900 pages) , Gabaldon reunites readers with their favourite couples; “Bees” brings us Claire and Jamie of course, and Bree and Roger, but also Ian (and his new wife Rachel), Jamie’s sister Jenny, and of course John Grey and Jamie’s son, William. With all of these storylines, it is not wonder the novel is so long! But of course, I loved every page. Most of this novel takes place in North America, and I desperately missed Scotland, but it made sense for the story. Of course, Gabaldon features some real-life members of the American Revolution, and includes them in her novel, supporting her well-researched plot. “Bees” is no stranger to the brutality of war (in pure “Outlander” fashion), and this one has just as much blood, guns and actions as the others. However, there is also the steamy romance and love stories that pulled me in and had me turning the pages. “Bees” is fabulous in every way, and although it took me some time to read it, I do not regret one second of it. The ending was breathtaking and I was literally on the edge of my seat, assuming the worst of the worst, and as usual, Gabaldon delivers a suspenseful punch at the end that leaves speculation rampant as to a tenth novel (and I’d be on board!). .

I don’t want this series to end, I can’t bring myself to watch the TV series as it doesn’t match my imagination and image of the characters created in my mind. (Maybe one day I’ll seat and watch them.) You can always pick up with Bre and Roger’s children going back one day...just a thought. 😊 Thank you for the hours of enjoyment! Cyndi

After a 2,723 day wait (nearly 7 1/2 years), Go Tell the Bees I Am Gone is finally here. I've never wanted to finish a book and also not finish a book so much, since Book 10 will surely take another half a dozen years. I savored Bees as long as possible and spread it out over 10 days, with the bulk of my reading happening over the past few days. It was hard for me to put down toward the end. Bees isn't my favorite book of the series (that would be Outlander or MOBY), but I loved it and it feels fitting as we go into the final book of the series. In interviews, Diana has described the shape of Bees (all of her Outlander books have a shape in her mind) as a snake. I could see it and feel it as I read; the plot is sinuous and curving with the head of the snake at the end. Diana also gave some hints as to the events in Bees in interviews. I wouldn't go so far as to call them spoilers, but I was correct in my predictions as to some of the events based on her comments. It was probably a good thing that I had a hint as to what was coming, because my anxiety was high enough while reading parts of this! Here is the Prologue: "You know that something is coming. Something--a specific, dire, and awful something--will happen. You envision it, you push it away. It rolls slowly, inexorably, back into your mind. You make what preparation you can. Or you think you do, though your bones the truth--there isn't any way to sidestep, accommodate, lessen the impact. It will come, and you will be helpless before it. You know these things. And yet, somehow, you never think it will be today." Is it referencing death? The war? Both? This prologue has stuck with me more so than the prologues from other books in the series. My grandma whom I loved dearly passed away this year. Maybe that's why these words resonate so much with me. Bees has a sentimental tone to it with a sense of reflection to lives well lived and many roads traveled. It feels like a book for Outlander book fans; there are so many nods toward events from past books, events that only someone who has read the books recently or multiple times may remember. (If that makes me sound like a book purist, then so be it.) It isn't essential that you re-read the series before reading Bees, but I think it would be much less touching and evocative if you don't remember past events well enough to pick up on all the nuances. Reading Bees is much like reading Echo: Echo was enhanced through reading the Lord John books/novellas prior, and I think Bees is best served by a past knowledge of both the LJ and Outlander books. Jamie and Claire are 60ish in Bees, and Diana's writing reflects that. They don't rise as easily as they used nor do they think about life as they did when they were younger. Diana talks about how she writes what she knows; she will be 70 on her next birthday (God willing), so she knows what it's like to live to Jamie and Claire's ages. Not being of that age myself, I can only imagine that once you've lived three-quarters of your life you reflect back on choices you've made and the events you've lived through, good and bad. There is a peace in Bees about what's to come. Jamie and Claire won't live forever (there are certainly elements of science fiction to the series, but it's not THAT far-fetched), and the word inexorable (from the prologue) is fitting. I said it before in my review of An Echo in the Bone that I think it's nothing short of amazing that Diana can write about the same characters over and over again and still make them grow and evolve as people. As a reader, I feel like I've lived with the characters and gotten to know and understand them on a level that no other author has ever reached. You can start reading a chapter and typically know right off who is speaking, because Diana's character's voices are that distinct. I love them all, but I'll always have a soft spot for Young Ian. I've never gotten teary-eyed so many times reading a book before. Bees isn't sad per say, but it does evoke strong feelings of nostalgia for past events in the series. My favorite part of Bees is the Outlander 'lore' if you will--the dreams, Claire's healing light, and ghosts just to name a few. I can't even imagine the tissues I'll go through reading Book 10. For now, I'll content myself with my continual leisurely re-read of the series (I'm in Fiery Cross right now). I'll always love these books.

I am officially in a book coma now... after reading all 3 previous books in the Kingsbridge series, was there any chance I'd miss the newest one, the prequel, entitled The Evening and the Morning? Nope... it was gonna happen as soon as possible. NetGalley declined me. I waited until the library had it available because I promised myself no new books until I read some on my TBR. I thought it would take 2 months to get to me on the list, then four days ago, NYPL told me I was next on the list. So... of course, I read it as soon as I arrived in Maine. Two days later, another 900 pages later, I want another one in the series ASAP! I don't know how to explain it... Follett is just brilliant when it comes to characters, plot, and conflict. He totally captures my heart and emotions, and I get so angry at these villains. Murder. Violence. Theft. Betrayal. Sure, it's slightly exaggerated... of course, it crosses a few lines to make certain groups look awful, but ultimately, this is fiction, and this is about finding an engaging read, so that's why I love this author's work. It's now the fifth book I've read, of about 20, and I will keep reading through them all. I admit, he's my favorite. See... I can barely write this review. Okay, so what do you need to know? Approximately the year 1000. Norman and English settlements. The Vikings are coming. The King needs help. The priory is full of corruption. But there is love. Hope. Knowledge. Humor. There is a bit of everything, and I find myself constantly switching my mind on what could happen because the author just shocks us with how evil some characters can be. In the other books in this series, the timeline is usually several decades. This one is barely a single decade, and for the most part, it all takes place in a three-year period. Alliances. Vengeance. And in the end, something comes together to make us feel a little better. Ragna. Edgar. Two beautiful characters. Get to know them. Now.

I haven’t read a story like this in a while. You know, I was concurrently reading a Rushdie book and had to put Salman's efforts to sleep for a couple of weeks – yes, this was that good. This book is based in the Dark Ages, a period after the Romans left England, and nothing much was happening apart from religion, superstition, in-fighting and Viking raids. We cover the years 997 – 1007 CE. Our two main characters are Edgar, a bright young man, the son of a boat builder and Ragna, the daughter of noble blood from Normandy. Ragna ends up marrying an English ‘Nobleman’ who was part of a grubby family and there is much skulduggery. Much of the clergy are the worst – the worst of the worst. We also meet King Ethelred as he is required to deal with the squabbles of the unwashed. I think this 900 page epic delivers around 20 notable characters. Yes, that’s a lot – but the reader has so many pages to get to know them. I found myself gasping (“you cant do that you dirty bastard!!!”), and swooning (“all she wants is love you bastard!!!”), to being amazed (“my word, you’re a clever bastard, you bastard!!!”). I was totally invested in this story – I imagined the characters were so real, that when I closed the book, they all had to down tools and wait for me to reopen the book for my next session. Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. Reading brilliant historical fiction like this does make one think though. It makes me so pessimistic about the future of humanity. We haven’t changed one bit, and as long as we are on this planet, I am sure we will be subjugating each other to nastiness until we aren’t here any longer. An epic story – I cant wait to read the rest of the series.

For you reading pleasure, I present the long-awaited prequel to The Pillars of the Earth (1989), The Evening and the Morning (2020). TPOTE is long thought of as a classic historical masterpiece, a sentiment I wholeheartedly agree with, but don't concern yourself, because this latest installment of the Kingsbridge series is just as immersive, dramatic, captivating and spellbinding, and I guarantee you will be as glued to all 832 pages as I was. Set at the end of the dark ages, on the cusp of the first millennium, the action and danger was immediate – less than three pages in see Viking ships raid and pillage a small English fishing village. The four main characters, and POV's, are; a Peasant boat builder, an English Monk, the Bishop of Shiring, and the daughter of a French Count. It's set mainly in England, with the threats of Vikings in the East and the Welsh in the West, but there are sections in Normandy, France. Much of the plot revolves around the personal lives of the main players – their loves, losses, dreams, scandals, betrayals, marriage and children. In The Evening and the Morning, we encounter a small hamlet with approximately five buildings (I'm not going to spoil things and reveal its original name), and witness it grow and prosper into the busy town which is known as Kingsbridge in The Pillars of the Earth, and beyond. I'm embarrassed to admit it took me longer than it should have to recognise pre-Kingsbridge. It wasn't until the ferry was built that a light bulb went off. Those familiar with the Kingsbridge trilogy will recall that each tome has its share of wicked, corrupt, shady characters, who usually hold positions of power or dominance, which they abuse to spread hatred and discord, and carry out their revenge. Fans will also know that Follet is a firm believer in good triumphing over evil, and that even though the heroes and heroines face brutality, tragedy, challenges, adversary, and heartache, by the end the villains have received their much-deserved comeuppance and punishment. Content wise, I found this one tamer than the other books in the series, but prepare yourself for period typical violence and barbarity – torture, rape, abuse, war, poverty, disfigurement, disease etc. The Pillars of the Earth was followed by two sequels, World Without End (my favourite because it incorporated the bubonic plague of the fourteen century) and A Column of Fire (which I own, but haven't yet read, set in the sixteenth century). All, including this one, can be read and enjoyed as standalones, since they are set in different centuries, with characters that are either descendants or ancestors. Ken Follet is a true talent, and The Evening and the Morning was an addictive, engrossing, epic experience, that I have no hesitation in recommending. I'd like to thank Netgalley, Macmillan, and Ken Follet for the e-ARC. Available Now!

Another fine effort by Ken Follett. This time we are looking at the Prequel to his Kingsbridge Cathedral Series, and while it ends about 125 years before Pillars of the Earth begins, he tells a story of how Kingsbridge developed. As with all of Follett’s works he is meticulous in his history research, and I particularly enjoyed learning how important Eels were to the British diet! He has his usual assortment of villains and in this book there are a lot of people to dislike!! We follow the lives of 3 main characters, a Norman/English noblewoman, a shipbuilder/craftsman and an abbot. There stories are intertwined with the development of the town, the governance of the regions and how these three main characters act and interact to the evils and disappointments that come into their lives. It is not always a happy picture he paints of the era from 997-1007 AD, but at the same time it was not the best of times in England. The Vikings were raiding almost annually, the area is governed by a truly evil family who even controls the church and uses that institution to advance their own power and wealth, even though they constantly make decisions that go against the welfare of the citizens of the area. I read this book on my Kindle and found it an easier read than his other novels in the series, I think this is because I could control the font size and brightness of the screen, and the Kindle is so much easier to carry about than then the actual book. Tremendous effort, once again by Follett and I am already looking forward to his next book!

Staring in 997 CE, we follow the lives of the three main characters: Edgar is the gifted son of a boatbuilder whose father and married lover are killed during a Vikings raid, and his mother and brothers move to a small town called Dreng's Ferry, which becomes Kingsbridge. Ragna of Normandy falls hard for a British earl (Wilf), moving across the Channel, where she finds life to be a challenge as she is despised by her husband's two brothers, stepmother, and son. Brother Aldred, a junior monk, has aspirations of building a library and making his poor, humble abbey a renowned center for scholarship and learning. All three are challenged at every turn, most especially by Wilf's clever but evil brother, Winstan, the local Bishop, whose greed and ambition to be Archbishop are unrelenting. Yet, the three form a strong bond, helped to some extent by the local sheriff, Den. Follett weaves a strong story, rife with the ongoing battles prevalent during those years between the monarchy and Church, local vs. central government, petty disputes over land, chattel, adultery, inheritance, larger disputes over territory, etc. Edgar's creativity, vision and kindness were awe-inspiring, and I really liked Blod, the slave, as a character. Unlike some readers, I ploughed through the novel, barely noticing the 900+ pages. My only criticism is I thought the word "fuck" would not have been used in that time period.

As usual Follett is brilliant in his research and storytelling. I loved this book and feel so close to all the amazing characters Follett shares with us. Even after thirty years since Pillars of the Earth were published, this book and all it’s sequels and prequels is some of the best literature of the century. I am a huge fan of Follett.

One of the Master of Historical Fiction has done it again. Follett novel at 912 pages is a feast for your literary hunger. Has dastardly hideous murder by brothers of their brother with their mother's blessing, a lecherous bishop who gets VD from a prostitute which leads to leprosy, a Sophie's Choice & enough blood thirsty Vikings to keep your interest piqued for the entire book.

The is the prequel to 'The Pillars of the Earth', Follett's best (though his other epic tomes are just as good--so maybe being first gives 'Pillars' a special meaning.) 'Evening and Morning' is set at the turn of the millennium--the first one. Civilization is making a slow and painful comeback, 600 years after the Romans abandoned Britain. A mudhole known as Dreng's Ferry (because Dreng is the ferryman) is struggling to be a viable hamlet; Viking raiders loot and burn coastal villages every summer. And off we go with Follett's usual engaging characters, hard-working, ambitious town-folk, crafty noblemen and women, pious and greedy priests, all vying for power, sex, and money. It's all beautiful, the characters lives unfold over a dozen years, and in the end they build a bridge and Dreng's Ferry becomes Kingsbridge, the town of 'Pillars of the Earth', two centuries later.

Follett’s does not disappoint. In this prequel of the Pillars of the Earth series, a wealthy noble lady from Normandy marries the noble man of her dreams, follows him back to England and discovers that her marriage was NOT made in Heaven. Meanwhile. A young man, a brilliant architect and builder, pines for the woman he loved who was murdered by the Vikings. There’s something for everyone in this book: romance! War! Religion! SUPERB!!

Yet another home run from Ken Follett. He is definitely working off of a formula for the Kingsbridge books, but it's such a great formula because they're riveting from begining to end. First off, this book returns the focus to small-town characters and problems like in Pillars of the Earth and World Without End. I enjoyed the plot of A Column of Fire, but didn't remember the character journey's because it felt like the greater story was more important. As such, I think this book works slightly better (but who am I kidding, all fo the books are fantastic!) This book is set during the age of Vikings attacking England in the late 900s/early 1000s. I could have had even more exploration of how Vikings influenced life, but what little we got was really cool. I also liked seeing how different the villages in the 900s were compared with what we see of Kingsbridge in the 1100s. My favorite character of this book was Aldred, who didn't have a ton of pagetime but what little he had was great. He is a great reminder of how even though humans can be tempted to sin, we can lean on God and work to resist that temptation. I think Follett intended something entirely different thematically for Aldred, but I thought it actually worked quite well. I really cared for Edgar in the book, and wanted to see him be successful. He doesn't have quite as interesting a personality as say Tom Builder, Jack, or Merthin. However, he was still really nice to read about. The character I empathized the most with was Ragna. Whoo boy does she go through the ringer in this book. Ken Follett very much writes Grimdark stories, and Ragna's story is certainly grim and dark! Wilwulf, Wynston, and Wilgem are very effective villains in the book, but they don't have quite the effect that William and Ralph. I also liked reading about the culture of England at the time. We don't have a ton of records from the time, but seeing how Christianity was slowly integrating into the pagan society was really fascinating. I have the same complaint about the graphic nature of the book. The first half of the book actually was toned down compared to the other books in the series, but BOY does it ramp up in the second half. Follett could easily write these books without being gratuitous, yet he refuses to cut back on graphic scenes. Speaking of cutting back: this book is significantly shorter than the other books. You wouldn't know it from the page count, as all 4 books so far in the Kingsbridge series are 900-1000 pages, but the publisher keeps increasing the spacing and font size, and so the number of words per page keeps decreasing. As a result, this book appears to be 900 pages, but is really only 220,000 words. Compare that with World Without End, which has slightly more pages at 1000 pages, but has about 400,000 words, nearly twice as long as The Evening and the Morning. Overall, I really enjoyed this book. Ken Follett really gets how to write enrapturing Historical Fiction (if he could tone down the graphic nature he'd be golden!). Still, an enjoyable book that kept me reading from beginning to end. 9 out of 10!

This 900+ page chunkster was everything I wanted. Every single thing! I read it both in print and on audio, and even though I finished it almost a week ago, I can't stop thinking about the story. It made me really feel every emotion while I was reading. I feel like it is so rare for me to find engaging and readable books set far, far back in history but this one wasn't difficult at all. No difficult language, no difficult names or situations. This story begin in the year 997 and goes for about a decade. As the book begins, Vikings raid Edgar's village, burning things and stealing things, killing and kidnapping. (This is during the time of King Ethelred the Unready's reign, which I had read a little bit about before starting this story. It was fun to see he and his wife Emma of Normandy on the pages, knowing their real-life legacies.) The story follows three characters closely: Edgar, a young boat builder who begins the story very poor but sets out to make a nice life for himself; Ragna, a Norman woman who comes to England to marry for love only to find that life is not what she expects it will be; and Aldred, a good-hearted monk with dreams of making his small town into a center of learning. I think Edgar was my favorite character, but I found Ragna and Aldred equally compelling. My gosh, life was hard back then-particularly for women. Ragna and the other women in the book have a hard go of it even though they weren't all poor or low socially. This story really highlights corruption and evil, and shows how difficult it was to overcome bad things when the leaders in your town and church were dishonest and influenced by greed, power, and money. Even with all of the bad things that happened to these characters, I loved watching them triumph over evil when they did and I especially loved despising the bad guys. I mean, they were just bad bad bad and very easy to hate. The pacing of the story didn't bother me at all, but I've seen where some readers found the beginning slow. The story does pick up speed from beginning to middle to end, but there wasn't a second that I was reading that I didn't want to keep turning the pages. I took a big chance with reading this one before reading the rest of the Kingsbridge books, but it paid off. I loved it and I know that I'll read it again one day. I'm desperate for more of Ken Follett's writing, so I anticipate starting The Pillars of the Earth within a week or two. Audiobook Notes: There is nothing I love more than listening to super-long audiobooks and following along with a chunky print copy. This book took me a while to read, which was FANTASTIC because every minute I spent in that world made me feel more immersed in it. I almost felt a part of what was going on. John Lee's brilliant narration was a joy; he has perfect accents for all of these characters, who come from all over the place. Without a doubt, I will keep buying the audiobooks for the rest of the series. Title: The Evening and the Morning by Ken Follett Series: Kingsbridge #0 Narrator: John Lee Length: 24 hours, 19 minutes, Unabridged Publisher: Penguin Audio

This probably would rank fourth of favorites in the series, but it was still a fantastic novel. It's just that the three before this, was just that much more epic. This was a prequel setting the scene for Kingsbridge, so everything had to start small. I get it. But this still had all the right ingredients, and no shortage of greed, cruelty and suspense. Well done!

James Patterson is always guaranteed to stop a reading slump and The 24th Hour did the trick. Easily devoured in a day, it was great to be part of the women’s murder again. These ladies are like family to me after 24 books now and still going strong. As always, the ladies have their hands full. Yuki finds herself working with a woman with multiple personalities who has been raped, Lindsay is in the hunt for the killer of a celebrity couple, 6 months apart. And Joe is working on a massive cyber hacking case. The drama is everywhere, plenty of twists and turns. Oh, and there is a wedding to plan for. Short chapters as always make for a super entertaining and fast read. Lovers of this series are going to love it. Thanks to Random House UK, Cornerstone, Century for the advanced copy. Always a pleasure to read.

Still Awesome! Finished in 2 days!!!

This is the next installment in the Women's Murder Club and a must read for me. I love these books and have fallen in love with the characters as well. James Patterson and Maxine Paetro have captured many readers with these ladies and I don't know how they keep coming up with great stories that keep us begging for more from the Women's Murder Club! The Women's Murder Club is getting together to celebrate Claire's birthday at their usual restaurant when a scream from the upstairs area interrupts the celebration. Of course Lindsay runs to see what is going on and finds a young lady cowered in the corner with bruises and half dressed. With only one way out, Lindsay quickly realizes that the perpetrator that did this to her has to be close by. When she looks around, she finds Tyler Cates naked and quickly apprehends him. Tyler insists that Mary Ellen Hayes, the poor young lady cowered in the corner set him up and asked him to have sex with her. Of course the rest of the Women's Murder Club is there to back Lindsay in no time. What is interesting about Mary Ellen is that she has a disorder that lets her slip into different personalities when she is triggered or put in certain situations. It is her way of dealing with things. When there are two sides to what happened with the whole situation, will Yuki be able to get to the bottom of what really happened with Tyler and Mary Ellen? Meanwhile, Lindsay is on the case of solving a double homicide of a husband and wife. They were killed a few months apart from each other but Lindsay is on the case to figure things out. There is a lot going on in this book and keeps you turning the pages to find out what happened with all of it. I always enjoy reading about the women in the Women's Murder Club and going along with them as they continue to live their lives and do their work. The short chapters in true Patterson style makes for quick reading and easy to sneak in a chapter here and there when you have a short break. I love that about his books too. I know you will enjoy reading this new chapter in the Women's Murder Club as I did. I really hope that these books keep coming! I enjoy them so much. I voluntarily read and reviewed this book and all opinions are my own. Thanks to NetGalley, the publisher and the authors for an advanced copy of this book. So happy to rad it!

♾️ ⭐️ Heartbreaking. Devastating. Harrowing. This macabre tale will shatter your heart, tear it from your chest, and haunt you long after the last page. Prepare to be destroyed. "You're like a rose in a graveyard, I wonder what you could have turned into without the war." WHAT TO EXPECT: ✨ dark fantasy / romance / horror ✨ alchemy and necromancy ✨ post-war / wartime ✨ morally grey MCs ✨ healer x soldier/spy ✨ enemies-to-lovers ✨ romance under extreme conditions ✨ 1/5 spice (in parts 2 and 3, non-descriptive) ✨ captor x captive ✨ imprisonment ✨ memory loss ✨ mystery ✨ espionage ✨ non-linear narrative ✨ HEA - It's not quite like the fairytales, but it's the best you could hope for. Trigger Warnings: wartime violence, religious abuse, depictions of complex trauma, suicidal ideation, self-harm, PTSD, medical torture, eugenics, cannibalism, s3xual assault, r4pe, and allusion to necrophilia. *Sexual violence and related themes are present throughout the story and are significant to the plot and character arcs. They are referenced frequently, but are depicted on-page only a small number of times and not described in explicit or gratuitous detail. My Thoughts: Alchemised is a literary masterpiece. Where do I even begin? I could honestly write an entire essay about this story, but I’ll write as much as I can till I reach the word limit on Goodreads. lol This is a DARK story that dives deep into the terrible nature and psychological effects of war. The trauma, sacrifice and loss experienced by these characters are unfathomable, and due to the phenomenal writing, you'll find yourself sucked into this world and experience pain and suffering alongside them. It’s easy to lose yourself in this story, so fair warning: if you’re an empathetic person, you may experience second-hand trauma. Necromancy adds an additional layer of darkness to this story. SenLinYu has created an immersive, grotesque world where every corner is soaked in horror and dread. The dead are everywhere: used as soldiers, servants, experiments, or vessels for other souls. And everything about them is written in detail, from the stench of the bodies to their stages of decomposition. Many of these reanimated corpses are people the FMC, Helena, once knew, leaving her (and the reader) horrified at what unfolds. Decaying bodies are a recurring element, so if you’re squeamish, this might not be an easy read. Personally, while I avoid this kind of thing on TV, reading it didn’t bother me as much. Though there were some parts I definitely made a face of disgust and mentally gagged. Regardless of the dark themes, Alchemised has one of the most devastatingly beautiful romances I've ever read. In the midst of a gruesome war, the world is horrifying and bleak, with almost no space for happiness or reprieve. Yet in the darkness, two lonely, broken people find their way to each other and cultivate an all-consuming, passionate love that stands the test of time. Even though the world has failed them, they refuse to fail each other. And they really only live to keep each other alive. The circumstances surrounding their love are tragic, yet their devotion to one another is beautiful. The world-building is masterful - fantasy at its finest. SenLinYu has created an intricate and sometimes terrifying world that feels completely original. The lore of Paladia, the Order of the Eternal Flame and their religion, politics, societal structures, the corruption - it’s overwhelming in the best way possible. The magic system in particular is so interesting and well done. Alchemy isn’t something I’ve ever read before, and while it took some time to learn the terms and understand the world, everything eventually clicked. Alchemy governs metals and it's a huge part of the magic system, but there's also other magics including pyromancy (fire), necromancy (control over the dead), vivimancy (control over the living), and animancy (control over minds). It’s complex, technical, and utterly fascinating. If you’re someone who loves highly detailed magic systems, this book will blow you away. Another interesting aspect of the world-building is the lore of Luna and Lumithia, Orion and the Necromancer, and the Holdfast dynasty. SenLinYu weaves these stories into the narrative at just the right moments, giving us a deeper understanding of how the world works and why things are the way they are - all while showing off her incredible creativity. It’s clever, immersive, and makes the world feel fully alive. PS: If you want to read a theory I have about the story of Luna and Lumithia, head to the end of the review!!! My heart and soul belong to Helena Marino and Kaine Ferron. These two are some of the most complex, unforgettable characters I’ve ever read. The wild part is I wouldn’t even say I’d want to be friends with them, nor are they characters I can relate to. But they are utterly compelling. Helena and Kaine are brilliant at what they do - Helena with her healing, Kaine with his killing - and they’re essentially two sides of the same coin. Together, they become the ultimate exploration of morality in wartime: what actions are or aren’t acceptable when fighting for your cause and protecting the ones you love? They had me questioning everything I thought I knew about right and wrong, good and evil. Through Helena, we witness the rot within the Order of the Eternal Flame. There's blatant misogyny, emotional manipulation, and abuse dressed up as righteousness. Through Kaine, we see how even the Necromancer’s side can attract followers whose motives may not have been entirely villainous. Neither side is clean. Both are corrupted (even though one is obviously worse than the other). But that’s what makes Helena and Kaine so unforgettable. They make choices where the ends justify the means, even if those choices are morally gray/black. And ultimately, their actions, however unforgivable, end up saving Paladia. Which begs the question: at what point do we excuse evil if the outcome is good? *SPOILERS AHEAD* Helena is one of the strongest fictional characters I’ve ever encountered. Since the beginning of the war, she did what was necessary, what no one else was willing to do. She used her vivimancy to save countless lives even though this resonance was considered by the Order to be proof of a corrupted soul, making her an outcast. She constantly left the safety of Headquarters to forage in the wetlands to make up for the hospital's lack of supplies. She works herself to the bone and often goes without food or sleep. She agrees to giving her life to a dangerous enemy now and after the war in order to protect Luc, the heir and leader of the Resistance and her best friend. She endured trauma after trauma, and still found the strength to fight. Every single thing Helena did was for the people she loved, even if it meant losing herself in the process. She wanted to win the war and save a world she knew she could never be a part of because of all the things she did to save it. Her selflessness, courage, loyalty, and devotion left me in awe. In the end, the only reason the Resistance triumphed was Helena’s courage to do what was necessary, no matter how morally compromising and no matter the cost to herself. Through those choices, she found both survival and her salvation with Kaine. Kaine is a fascinating character because he forces us to ask: how far would you go to protect the ones you love? While Helena fights to save the world, Kaine fights to save her. He sacrifices everything until there’s nothing left but what the war has made him - all because of his obsessive, all-consuming need to protect Helena. He isn’t a hero to anyone but Helena, and she knows it. Even after the war when Lila mentions that Kaine doesn't care about anything or anyone but Helena, she says: “Love isn’t always as pretty or pure as people like to think. There’s a darkness in it sometimes. Kaine and I go hand in hand. I made him who he is. I knew what that array meant when I saved him. If he’s a monster, then I’m his creator.” Everything Helena did was for Luc, the Resistance, and the future of Paladia. But everything Kaine does is for Helena because she is his entire world. There is no line he wouldn't cross to protect her - even participating in their own r4pe (yes, they were BOTH victims). We may not forgive Kaine for the terrible things he did; however, I believe we can understand his actions. When we find out the reason Kaine joined the Necromancer was because they were torturing his mother, my heart broke. And then, he was forced to murderer and become a part of the Undying. All of this happened to him at 16 years old. Kaine didn't want this life, but it was forced upon him. However, once his mother died, his sorrow turned to hate, and that pain set him on the path to becoming a monster. And he truly is a monster: a mass murderer of men, women, and children alike. Anything that stands in his way is annihilated. That’s what makes him so compelling. Helena sees his cruelty firsthand, yet glimpses of humanity keep breaking through. In the beginning, he keeps his distance and is cruel to protect himself, but once he falls for Helena, there’s no turning back. Watching this monster reveal the human beneath is haunting because it's a reminder that monsters are made, not born. I love his character because it truly makes me wonder, if someone commits atrocities to protect the one they love, can their actions ever be considered entirely evil? Another incredible aspect of Alchemised is how it explores the systemic oppression of women. This story exposes the underappreciated work, ignored contributions, silenced voices, and denied agency of women, as well as the impossible sacrifices they are forced to endure. Both before and during the war, Paladia was deeply misogynistic, and women are repeatedly unsafe, undervalued, and constrained by rigid social structures. From guild restrictions and inheritance laws to barriers in studying alchemy or obtaining leadership positions, there's plenty of examples where women are treated unfairly simply because of their gender. Additionally, women face horrific consequences if captured during the war, including r4pe and reproductive servitude. Helena herself endured these horrors and more. Not only during the war but even before it, when she was coerced into sterilization at sixteen to prove her loyalty and work as a healer for the Order of the Eternal Flame - a brutal reminder of how the system controls women’s bodies. These injustices run throughout the narrative, leaving the reader both heartbroken and enraged. Helena is the clearest example of how women are overlooked and undervalued. As an immigrant from the South with vivimancy, she’s doubly marginalized, and her superiors constantly question her loyalty and worth. She is essentially “sold” to Kaine Ferron to gather information, overworked, and given little support or recognition. The worst part? None of her efforts were truly acknowledged. Whether she was saving lives in the hospital or working behind the scenes with Kaine, her contributions were mostly ignored. Or, if anyone noticed and things went well because of her efforts, all the credit went to Sol, their god, or her superiors. And at the end of the war, the cruelest injustice of all: after everything Helena endured, after giving herself completely to the Resistance and almost losing her mind, history writes her off as a footnote: “She was a non-active member of the Order of the Eternal Flame and she did not fight.” That’s it. . . That’s all she gets. . . After everything she went through. . . . Helena’s sacrifices are erased, and it’s absolutely devastating. Even now, writing this, I'm getting choked up and teary-eyed because it’s not fair. And that, sadly, is often how the world works for women. But Helena is not alone. Even characters like Lila, who has one of the most prestigious positions in Paladia as Luc’s paladin, struggles under this system. Though her circumstances are entirely different than Helena’s (she was born into privilege), she must maintain perfectionism and strict self-control to retain her position - even hiding her vivimancy so others do not think her soul is corrupt. She closes herself off from romantic relationships, trains harder than most, and keeps tight mastery over her magic and her life because any slip could cost her everything. The story does an incredible job of showing how women survive, endure, and work within a system that constantly undervalues them, adding a layer of emotional depth and frustration that lingers long after the last page. The last thing I'll talk about is the religious abuse in Alchemised. The religion of the Order of the Eternal Flame is more about control and less about faith. The leaders exploit religious devotion to manipulate the Resistance. They encourage people to see favorable outcomes a “miracles” or "favors" from Sol or teach that victory comes only through purity and obedience, while privately knowing it’s a lie. Faith is wielded as both a beacon and a chain, used to control, push the war effort forward, and give people hope in an otherwise hopeless fight. This abuse adds another layer of oppression, showing how belief can be weaponized to justify cruelty and erase personal agency. It also frustrates me how science is ignored when it conflicts with faith. Certain fields, like vivimancy, are outright banned because they’re considered a corruption of the soul, even though the science behind them can save lives. The parallels with our own world are impossible to miss, which made the injustice feel all the more real. Overall, Alchemised is extraordinary and unlike anything you've ever read. The world-building is brilliant, the characters are complex, the storyline is heartbreaking, and the moral quandaries are thought-provoking. My heart repeatedly broke, but somehow by the end, it was put back together - albeit with cracks. This story makes you feel things you didn’t think possible. It is brutal, horrifying, beautiful, and unforgettable. Absolutely a MUST READ! ***Luna/Lumithia Theory. Okay, so if you look at the map of The Known World, it looks like Europe if certain areas were flooded, and it says it’s 2000 years after The Great Disaster. Paladia and Etras have different versions of the story, but essentially, at some point, Luna (the moon) and Lumithia (celestial body) collided. Fire rained down on the world, Luna "nearly fell from the sky", and the seas rose. Lumithia ended up sharing the sky with Luna (2 moons), and from the fire that came down, "gifts of alchemy were bestowed upon mankind". So what if this actually takes place on a future Earth after a huge celestial disaster happens that almost wiped out the human population, where years later people who live in Paladia (where parts of the comet or asteroid or planet that hit the moon fell) end up discovering lumithium and resonance (which is used to channel alchemy)???? A friend and I both come to this conclusion on our own, so I'm thinking there has to be some truth to it. And when she asked SenLinYu, Sen just sent back 👀. But also, I seriously hope Sen does a prequel of people surviving right after the Great Disaster!!!!!! Post-apocalyptic and dark! I need it! Favorite Quotes: "Do I know you?" "I suppose you do." _______ "If I'd known what pain you'd cause me, I never would have taken you. . . But, at this point, I suppose I deserve to burn. I wonder if you'll burn, too." _______ She couldn't fix herself anymore, and no one else seemed inclined to even notice she was breaking. _______ They were the inverse and counter to each other. A healer and killer, circling slowly, the push and pull inexorable. _______ "Don't die, Kaine," she said. "There are far worse fates than dying, Marino." "I know. But that one you don't come back from." "All right, then, but only because you asked." _______ “I can’t—I can’t do this again—,” he finally gasped out. “I can’t care for someone again. I can’t take it.” She blindly found his face, pressing her hand against his cheek, felt tears slide along her palm and down her wrist. “I’m sorry. I’m so sorry, Kaine.” She said it again and again. She was apologizing for everything. _______ “You are not replaceable,” he said, his hands trembling against her shoulders. “You are not required to make your death convenient. You are allowed to be important to people. The reason I'm here— the reason I'm doing any of this— is to keep you alive. To keep you safe." _______ Like a star, he was glittering and ice-cold from afar, but when the space was bridged, the heat of him was endless. _______ When he kissed her, it felt like the beginning of something that could be eternal. _______ "I should have known - the moment I looked into your eyes, I should have known I would never win against you." _______ “You’re mine. You swore yourself to me. Now. And after the war. I’m going to take care of you. I’m not going to let anyone hurt you. You don’t have to be lonely. Because you’re mine.” _______ If he couldn't hide her, he would hoard her to himself as much as he was able to. She'd fallen for a dragon. _______ "You don't get to have everything, Helena. There's a point when you have to realize you aren't going to get everything you want, and you have to choose and let it be enough for you..." "I don't want to choose. I always have to choose, and I never get to choose you. I'm so tired of not getting to choose you." _______ "I have warned you, if something happens to you, I will personally raze the entire Order of the Eternal Flames. That isn't a threat, it's a promise. Consider your survival as much a necessity to the Resistance as Holdfast's. If you die, I will kill every single one of them." _______ The war was an abyss that took everything and was never satisfied. There was always more required. Another life. An additional measure of blood. Be better. Smarter. more ruthless. Quicker. More cunning. Accept a second portion of pain. It was never enough. _______ No amount of evasion could hide him; he was the fabric of her thoughts. Her every action tied to him. _______ "Every time you asked, I promised I was yours. Always. There aren't any exceptions or expirations dates on always." _______ He'd loved her, even though he never expected them to be anything but doomed. He'd loved her all the same. _______ She was a non-active member of the Order of the Eternal Flame and she did not fight. _______

6 stars. Perfection. No notes. I honestly went into this a little bit scared, worried that it wouldn’t live up to expectations.. happy to say, it surpassed them. This is a masterpiece. Please also know that this is DARK. Check TW’s. You can tell how much research and thought went into it. The world is so broad and intricate, the magic is SO detailed and well thought out, and the characters… they’re perfectly imperfect. You can read this surface level, or you can dive deep. Personally I don’t know how to not read into things or how not to try and find the deeper meaning (it’s the Scorpio in me). The themes in this book are SO important, and honestly are such a reflection of the world we live in. It made my heart hurt, it made me rage, and it made me feel. The love story was phenomenal, but that’s not all this book was. It was a story about hate, about elitism, about being silenced, used, and broken for a cause. It’s about corruption in power, war caused by ego and lies, and the people caught in the middle. About how love can turn you into something you don’t want to be, and that redemption IS possible, no matter what you’ve done. It’s a story about perseverance, and love and hope when there is none to be had, even if you find it in your supposed enemy. It was an epic story. I love the characters, and I loved this book. Kaine and Helena will live in my mind forever.

Infinity stars. Nobody talk to me for like 8-10 business months. I’m in severe emotional pain. Without out a doubt one of the best books I’ve ever read. God tier. Perfection. Nothing will ever compare but my god did it HURT. I have so many thoughts I cannot put into words right now. KAINE. FERRON. He altered my brain chemistry in every way. Him and Helena my babies must be protected at all costs. I like actually don’t know how to function after reading that like I can’t even think about anything else. I feel like I just got hit by a bus of emotional anguish. Art. Masterpiece. I will take no criticism. Maybe I’ll write a full review at some point but I truly don’t know how to put this into words. I feel like I need to curl up in a ball and stare at a wall for 24 hours so I’m gonna do that. “You’re like a rose in a graveyard,” he said, and his lips twisted into a bitter smile. “I wonder what you could have turned into without the war.”

I couldn’t write a review worthy of this book ♾️

I will never get over the way they destroyed themselves in their devotion to each other. Alchemised is an emotional vacuum, leaving you hollowed out by the end. Finishing this tome of pain and suffering takes something from the reader like it took everything from its characters. How does one begin to review a story such as this? How can it be placed on an esoteric 5-star scale? This tale which has haunted me for years as a profound part of my literary psyche; the lens through which I've judged all other subsequent fiction. Let me carve out a piece of myself for critical analysis instead, it would be easier to find the words. SenLinYu has put the "grim" in grimdark fantasy. Amidst a plot composed of a never-ending barrage of war crimes, it's unsurprising that the content is off-putting for many readers. You're meant to feel uncomfortable and disgusted. War has never been clean and linear and black and white. This is demonstrated brilliantly in Part I with an unreliable narrator, twisting your perception until every horrifying choice unravels with devastating clarity. The author does not shy away from disturbing topics, but they are portrayed with proper gravity where nothing is romanticized. Yes, there's a love story, but it is born out of two people desperately clinging to each other as the obligations they are enslaved by slowly strip them of everything: their choices, their humanity, their health... To call this a romance is so reductive it borders on insulting. We're going beyond something as simplistic as genre classification when confronted with the invisible and thankless costs of war: the labor, the lives, the grey areas. Whether the motivation is love, religion, or power.... what are you willing to sacrifice at the altar of your cause? Dozens of fictional books that center around war have passed through my hands. Perhaps hundreds. Yet none have captured the brutal, all-consuming nuances of conflict the way Alchemised does. And despite the excitement of seeing this story brought into the light, the discourse surrounding it has been extremely misleading. I won't begrudge anyone who leaves negative feedback because they found the worldbuilding too arduous or the gore too rampant. However, potential readers should be aware that there are many disingenuous 1-star ratings muddying the waters. Not because they read the book and didn't like it, but because of their preconceived hatred for the ship/pairing in the original fanfiction. This is a bad-faith argument and an unfortunate side effect of dragging the fandom world from the dark corners of the internet into traditional publishing. The whole conversation is an ironic parallel to one of the overarching themes in the book. People think they know the characters based on the narratives they've been told, while having no idea what really happened. Lest we forget, history is written by the victors. So, where do you go from here? You don't go anywhere. This story sits with you forever. A weight on your chest. A lump in your throat. Congratulations, you are now trauma-bonded to a book. Welcome to the club.

it’s been dayssss since i finished this & i still more than once daily burst into tears … 6 stars isn’t enough 🥀

6 stars 🌟♾️ god tier read. I am absolutely destroyed. Dark, tragic, brutal and painfully beautiful, this book consumed me entirely and I will never move on ❤️‍🩹🥀🪦

A review? Sure. Get ready to ugly sob. ♾️/5⭐️

Here I am again to change my rate to 5⭐️ now…. 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂 I can’t leave it alone since the book hasn’t left my mind since I finished. I rate books based on how it makes me feel mostly. I know I only truly loved the last 40% but still those 40% was enough to make it unforgettable and it is literally living rent free in my mind ever since. Ok I am actually changing the rate of this book to 4.5⭐️ instead of 4 ⭐️ only. And it’s because I can’t forget the last 40% of the book….. it’s ingrained deep in my mind 🖤 This book took YEARS out of my life…….. I’m not going to sit here and write a review pretending to be a proficient deep fantasy reader because I am not. I actually only decided to listen to this book because I was curious about the hype around it and I didn’t want to be left out 😂 ….. In all honesty I had to listen because reading was completely out of the possibility for me, I was sleeping after reading a single page, this was way too deep in fantasy for me, but listening was another experience all together, so maybe if you want to read it but also can’t , try to listen. I am going to say here some things I disliked first and then I’ll end on a high note saying what I liked, not liked… LOVED ! So I first couldn’t get grabbed by the story, I thought the entire first part (the book is divide in 3 parts), the entire first part for me was too unnecessary long, I think we all get the gist of what it was. I was SO BORED that even listening was making me want to sleep…. Also to ME specifically as non fantasy reader it was too intricate but I am sure that for readers that are used to the deep fantasy it will be normal. When the second part started I thought I was going to immediately loved, but it actually took a few chapters for me to be very invested in the story and I can say for a fact that I started to REALLY like it when I was 60% in it and LOVED the last 20% so those 40% are the reason this book is a 4⭐️ for me, if was only based on the first 60% I would rated 2⭐️. But again don’t follow my opinion because I am a deep dark romance reader so to me everything was too slow and not my kind of dark. But this is ME, I am sure it’s not the case for most people. I wanted MORE of their romance, I wanted more of the angst and need and I only got that in the last 40%, I was actually tired of listening only about the damn war, and I guess this is again on me because I feel like romantasy I can do it since it’s full of everything I want but only fantasy is not , I really liked how the author correlates everything with religion and politics that I loved, if you read paying attention you will see how in tune with the actuality in the world this book is, all the fantasy was really telling us everything that is now going on in the world you just have to pay attention. Regardless, when I finally got to the last 40% I was blown away, everything to me became technicolor, everything was interesting and I was on the edge of my seat the whole time, I was even mad I had to sleep because all I wanted was to finish the book and see what was going to happen to Helena and Kane. Their love was so impossible, so difficult, so hard to choose….. they had to keep choosing each other over and over and over and no one was allowed to know, they were so forbidden that my heart kept breaking for Kane with all the decisions he had to make it, with all the atrocities he had to commit and everything was only for Hellena, she was the only thing he ever had, his life was an ocean of darkness and pain until her…. 😩 Then we have our amazing brave Helena, the one nobody gave credit, the one everyone overlooked, the brilliant mind that was “only” a healer to everyone. No one saw her bravery, her courage, her sacrifices, her pain, her agony in trying to save everyone, she was a diamond but everyone just saw the unpolished rock … until Kane….. they had to keep saving each other all the time and the weight was getting extremely heavy on their shoulders. 😩😭 the choice to love and save each other was SO HEARTBREAKING 💔 Omg I swear this book would’ve been in my God Tier if was all like the last 40% but alas here we are. That is the max I can give you without any spoilers. Unlike most people I did not cry at all until the very last phrase, that phrase is what made me LOSE MY FUCKING MIND crying, it’s what shattered me because of the unfairness, she did NOT deserve to only be a footnote : “SHE WAS A NON ACTIVE MEMBER OF THE ORDER OF THE ETERNAL FLAME AND DID NOT FIGHT” 😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭 for the record, I didn’t find him so repugnant. I’m so used to villains that make your skin crawl that he was fine to me. Not lovely in the beginning but not the worst either ♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️ “Don’t Want to Choose, I always have to choose and I never get to choose you. I’m so tired of not getting to choose you.” “You are not choosing, you promised me anything I wanted. I want you to stop trying to break yourself trying to save me. Go, live, tell our daughter I saved you both. That is what I want. “ ♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️ “Helena, look at you. You broke yourself into pieces over and over because of me. And you don’t seem to understand that it kills me . Living it’s not worth to me if you are the one that keeps paying the price for it. Let me fix what I can” ♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️ “ I would rather die trying to save you then living knowing that was a chance and I didn’t take it” ♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️ “We have to stop hurting ourselves for each other. Both of us, we are not going to last if that’s the only way we know how to love” ♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️ “You are like a rose in a graveyard!” “You are not replaceable!” ♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️

I don’t even know what to say

5 stars are not enough. 🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹 She was a non-active member and did not fight. THE MOST GUT-WRENCHING LINE IN ALL OF FICTIONNNNNN😭😭😭😭 How do you review a book that took you on the most gut wrenching journey? How do you review a book that chewed you up and spit you out and you just say Thank You, Can I have some more? Before going into this review, I want to address a few things about this book: 1. Some readers are boiling the book down to tropes and making snap judgments based on that. Does this book have some tropes? Yes it does, but the tropes DO NOT give you any clear picture of the plot or the book. They help you know what to expect.. like yes they are enemies that become lovers, but it isn't that simple. 2. I'm all for reading what you enjoy and staying away from what you don't, but deciding to not the read the book because it isn't smutty enough? pls😭 Like.. you do you.. but don't deter other potential readers by saying this book is not spicy enough?? The book's purpose is not smut 🙄 3. Do you have to read Manacled before this book? Absolutely not. I will say that readers who enjoyed Manacled will definitely enjoy this book if not more. This is a chunky book because it is a fantasy standalone...there will be a lot of worldbuilding completely independent from Harry Potter so, it is to be expected to have a substantial amount of worldbuilding for the epic journey in this book. 4. I've seen some discourse about the book's plot being the same as Manacled... umm??? Well yeah?? First of all, why mess with perfection? Second of all, was the author supposed to write a whole new book? The author changed the names, the whole premise of magic changed to alchemy and some plot points regarding some characters changed, but the whole premise is the same because well.. that's what made the book a success?? smh this comment actually stupefied me I swear😵‍💫 Ok on to the review😅 I mean... of course I loved it! ARE YOU KIDDING??? This book was a journey of pain, love, pain, angst, some more pain, little bit of joy and PAIN❤️‍🩹 Having read and absolutely LOVED Manacled, I already knew I would love this book. I knew the pain going in to it, I knew all the twists coming, I knew the impending heartbreak and guess what? It actually hit WAY HARDER this time around. I was crying, hyperventilating, and lamenting my life choices but I would do it all over again and probably will😭 This book was over 1k pages (36 hrs on audio) and I wanted it longer😭 I did not want to let them go; I wanted to exist with them and just stay with them and watch them live a happy mundane life in the end😭 The way this story was written with the different timelines just makes the reading experience 100x better but ultimately more painful. I would really really recommend rereading part 1 after finishing part 2 because it will just DEVESTATE YOU! Trust me I am a stranger on the internet promising you lots of pain from a book. 😅 The character growth of Helena and Kaine was amazing. They both grew and changed with and for each other ❤️‍🩹 Kaine was this tortured soul with a tragic past which led to his "morally gray" behavior. I will defend Kaine till the day I die! to be loved by Kaine is to be loved truly and fully forever and ever❤️‍🩹❤️‍🩹❤️‍🩹 Helena deserves everything 😭 My girl I want to protect her with my life💔 Helena and Kaine's love story is one for the ages. These two broken souls finding comfort and love with each other was a beautiful journey to witness. I LOVE THEM SM IT HURTS AHHH I MISS THEM😭😭😭 The things they went through to get back to each other💔💔 ugh my heaaarrrttttttttt💔💔💔 Some readers may find the pacing to be slow here, but for me it was just perfect. This could be due to the fact that this was like a reread for me, but I also remember being equally obsessed and enthralled during Manacled 🤷‍♀️ Reading is subjective and all that yk😅 Anyways, this book will haunt me FOREVER. I will never ever stop thinking about this epic love story and will most definitely burst into tears randomly throughout my life because I will remember something from the book.🤧 I welcome it though because as I said before, I LOVE THEM SMMMM🤧🤧🤧 If you've read this far, this is for you

✅️✅️ Layered characters ✅️✅️ Dark and angsty ✅️ Complex world-building and magic system (alchemy and necromancy) ✅️ War and spying ✅️ Twists and betrayals ✅️ So many feelings ✅️ Forced proximity ✅️ Captor/Captive dynamic ✅️ Very slow burn enemies to lovers ✅️ Doomed and slightly toxic romance ✅️ Memory loss (and I am usually not a fan of this trope) ❗️❗️Trigger warnings: death of loved ones (adults and children), necromancy, gore, suicidal thoughts, rape, mentions of cannibalism, torture, eye injuries, amputation, amnesia, human experimentation 🔥 Spice level : 🌶️🌶️.5 / 5 Infinite stars. This is a horrible and haunting masterpiece. This story will rip your heart out and continue to haunt you day and night for months after you're done with it, and you're going to love it and thank the author for the emotional trauma. I tried to put my thoughts into words, but I am still struggling after a few days. While this story has the skeleton of manacled, with the same main plot, different world-building and magic system make it a whole new experience. It still hurt even though I knew what to expect, and I am happy that it had such a deep, emotional impact, despite the fact that I was not shocked by what happened like I was when I first read Manacled. From the very first chapter, we are thrown into the complex world-building of Alchemised. There are no info-dumps, which I appreciated. Still, it also made the first few chapters a little harder to read and understand, because they are also full of alchemy-related vocabulary that I didn’t know before reading this book. Once we are past these first chapters, though, we get used to the vocabulary and the magic system and are quickly immersed in this dark and gruesome world. The descriptions are vivid, and we can feel the gloom and despair seeping from every place Helena visits. Quickly, here are a few words that might help you understand better what is happening at first: -Alchemist: a person with power over something else, most likely metal. Alchemists are divided into sub-groups depending on their affinities. -Resonance: how they call the Alchemist’s powers -Necromancer: a person with power over the dead -Vivimancer: person with power over the living (tissues, organs, etc.) -Animancer: a person with power over thoughts and emotions His shoulders slumped. “If you die, Helena, I’m done. I won’t continue this. I’m tired.” This is a very dark story. Early on, we can see how cruel Morrough's people are, and there seems to be no limit to their depravity. The setting, the actions, the mood... Everything is full of dread and horror, and the necromancy added yet another layer of horror to the story. There are moments filled with such heavy despair and hopelessness, I had to take breaks while reading to get my mind off the book and focus on something lighter, because the angst and darkness were getting to me. Luc had always had a talent for making Helena feel like she was special rather than painfully out of place. She’d wanted to prove him right – that she was something, that she’d be worth believing in. Helena is such an inspiring yet tragic main character. Seeing what she went through during and after the war was heartbreaking, but at the same time, her resilience and selflessness are so impressive. Her drive to push through and vanquish any obstacle she faced, mixed with her vulnerability and loneliness, made her such a strong and impactful main character. I could feel what she was going through, and felt like crying or raging when she was sad or angry. I love it when an author manages to make us that invested and connected to the main character. Crowther’s eyebrows furrowed as he studied her. “I’ve spent a year working on the logistics of replacing you… I must admit, you are the most exceptional asset the Eternal Flame possesses. And I am sorry for that.” Helena lost everything and everyone, and she is still willing to give all of herself for the cause she believes in. Amid all this grief and despair, Helena managed to steal a few moments of peace, but she couldn't even share these little bits of happiness and love she had because it was all a secret. Throughout this story, we saw Helena become more and more isolated, as she was either forced to push people away or was being pushed aside and made to feel unimportant and irrelevant, when she was the biggest asset they had. He was always cruelest when he was vulnerable Kaine is complex and intense. He hides any feeling or vulnerability behind a shield of cruelty and coldness, but we come to see how intensely he can love. To the point of obsession, really. He is a compelling and very layered "villain", and he is an engaging love interest, but at the same time, how he becomes obsessed with Helena and the way he acts because of it is unhealthy. She is his salvation and his doom at the same time. This story shows the impacts of the war with no glossing over its ugliness and the impossible choices it brings. It depicts the emotional and psychological toll the war has on Helena and Kaine so well; it truly is a masterpiece. The sacrifices and loss they both experience and the way it is described gave me second-hand trauma, but it is what makes this book so good. It sinks its claws into you, sucks you in for this roller coaster of emotions, and spits you out at the end, and while you are left trying to figure out how to survive this book, you are also thinking it's one of the best reading experiences you've ever had. He wasn’t kind; he simply wasn’t cruel. He wasn’t as monstrous as he could be. And for Helena’s fracturing mind, an absence of cruelty was sufficient solace. For her starved heart, it was enough. The first part makes us hate Kaine Ferron and even fear a Stockholm Syndrome romance, but it is so much more complicated than that. I do not want to spoil the book, but all I can say is keep on reading. It is not a Stockholm Syndrome trope. It is deeper, uglier, but also more beautiful and meaningful than that, but you have to push through to see how unique and highly complex Helena and Kaine’s relationship is. ” We have to stop hurting ourselves for each other,” she finally said. “Both of us. We’re not going to last if this is the only way we know how to love.” Helena and Kaine's romance is not easy or cute. It is a very slow-burn enemies-to-lovers, but even when they finally accept and act on their feelings, it remains very complicated. I am not an expert, but I do think that while their love is inspiring in its intensity and how unwavering it is, it's also toxic because of this intensity and how far they are both willing to go to save each other. They keep putting themselves in danger, lying and hurting each other in their attempt to make sure the other one can escape the war and its aftermath alive. ” I live among idealists, but all I see are bodies. I’d like the opinion of someone who doesn’t believe that optimism somehow improves the odds.” The idea of pragmatism vs. idealism is central to the plot, especially in the second part. Helena wants to share the beliefs of her friends and the Eternal Flame, but working in the hospital, all she sees are wounds and deaths, whether the battle was a victory or not. She is also realistic enough to realise that simply believing that if they endure, their gods will help them win in the end, because they are the good guys, will not win them a war. Especially since they are outnumbered and lack proper resources to fight the enemy and heal their wounded. She suggests realistic solutions to help the Eternal Flame, but those solutions are not deemed “pure” enough to be acknowledged. Even worse, it means Helena is being pushed aside and treated as a pariah at times because her pragmatism is viewed as a lack of faith in their God. It was so frustrating to see her try again and again to help the Eternal Flame, only to be cast aside and made to feel unworthy of their cause, when it was clear that she was one of the only ones seeing things clearly for what they were. The ending is a punch in the guts. I can't say that it is a happy ending; it's simply a "it's not as bad as it could have been" ending. It is bittersweet and left me with a feeling of injustice for Helena and all she sacrificed. I will not say more because I don't want to spoil it, but it had such a deep impact on me when I read Manacled. I stared at a wall for 10 minutes after I was done. I knew what to expect this time, but it still left me with this feeling of emptiness and unfairness, and I definitely need to read something lighter now, because this book broke my heart. On a side note, the playlist SenLinYu shared on Spotify is a must while reading this book. It creates an immersive, dark, and gloomy mood that fits perfectly with the story and the doomed romance. ”Be careful,’ she whispered. “Don’t die.” Follow me on Instagram 🙂

6 stars 🥀 🪦 🌖 🧠 🧟‍♂️ 👁️ ❤️‍🩹 My favorite book. Ever. ❝ Call me, and I will come. ❞ ❝ Ferron always comes for me. ❞ ❝ You’re mine. I’ll always come for you. ❞ He always did. ❝ You came—I guess you always do. ❞ I was born in the right generation because I got to read Alchemised. Honestly, if I lived in the Victorian era, I would’ve built a time machine to 2025 and read this book. ╰┈➤ This book FINISHED ME. This book is definitely not a romantasy. It’s a dark fantasy with a romance subplot, but the romance scenes? Worth everything. It might look intimidating with its 1k pages, but trust me… it’s so worth it. I did have to use a glossary for the book terms until I was like 800 pages in, so if you’re not used to complex magic and heavy world-building, then this probably isn’t for you. There are scenes that will leave you in sheer horror, but also in complete intrigue, like “oh no… gasp… I’m gonna put down this book for 10 minutes.” ∘₊✧─────✧₊∘ . ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁༉‧₊˚. This book has officially become my new personality. I genuinely cannot hold a normal conversation without talking about it, so at this point I just talk less and keep my mouth shut. And problem is: NO ONE UNDERSTANDS ME. ╰┈➤ˎˊ˗ The parallels between the parts? Actually insane. ➤ I read Part 1 → Part 2 → back to Part 1 → then Part 3, and I didn’t regret a single second. It was the best book journey of my life. If there’s one thing I love about reading, it’s the parallels. ✎𓂃 I’ve always adored finding parallels like little puzzles, and this book fed that obsession perfectly. ⸜(｡˃ ᵕ ˂ )⸝♡ I literally have a full 20-page document of parallels for my own safekeeping. If one day I start forgetting the plot, it’s fine… because I also devoted hours into a 85-page recap document. I am THAT serious and THAT in love with this book. I never want to forget a single word. I want it permanently engraved into my brain, from the prologue to the epilogue. . ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁༉‧₊˚. ∘₊✧─────✧₊∘ I can’t even properly describe the story. If you ask me what it’s about, all I can say is: it’s emotionally devastating, and reading Alchemised means sacrificing a piece of yourself and accepting that you’ll never be the same or read books the same way ever again. .˚⊹. ࣪𓉸 ࣪⊹˚. I have to say, this book really lives up to the hype. I don’t agree with people saying it’s “unnecessarily long.” Honestly, I’d settle for another thousand pages, because if you know me, you know I’d do anything for a slow burn.

He is mine and I am his. He was a monster and she was his creator. He loved her, even though he never expected them to be anything but doomed. He’d loved her all the same. “I love you. I wish I’d told you a million times” Dark, traumatic, misunderstood. Controversial. Love was born out of cataclysm, pain, forgiveness. This is not a romantic story. No way I’d call this a “romantasy”. RTF.

✩ 5 stars ✩ What to Expect: ➼ Enemies-to-Lovers ➼ Morally Gray Characters ➼ Missing Memories ➼ Forbidden Romance ➼ Forced Proximity ➼ Slow Burn ➼ Dual Timeline ➼ Dark Fantasy ➼ Narrated by Saskia Maarleveld ➼ Third Person POV Considering how obsessed I am with Manacled, I had my doubts that this book would even come close to measuring up. My previously established attachment to the Harry Potter Universe allowed me to connect with Manacled on such a deep level that it was hard to imagine this book wouldn’t feel a little hollow after being stripped of that world. I worried that the world building would feel cumbersome or that I would be too fixated on comparing the two to allow this book to stand on its own. I had so many fears and valid concerns going into this, but I should have known better than to doubt Sinlinyu, because THIS was a masterpiece. 🙌🏻 I would still probably give Manacled 6 stars and this a solid 5, but this book packed almost the same emotional punch and wrecked me in the best way. I honestly think more than anything else, it was the slight reordering of events that made this a little less impactful for me, but the world Sinlinyu created was just as rich and nearly as well developed. I say nearly because she had 9 books to build off of when writing Manacled (including The Handmaid’s Tale books) so it would be pretty impossible for the world building to be THAT strong with only one book, but she did a phenomenal job! I know that some people were disappointed by the ending, but I think it was realistic. It wasn’t a picture perfect HEA, but it was a very good ending for our characters. I’ll leave it at that to avoid spoilers. Such an incredible author! Sinlinyu will definitely be an auto buy author for me from now on! I can’t wait to see what else that wonderful brain has in store for us! ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ♾️ stars! 🥹🫶🏻 Review to come! Pre-read: OMG! This is NOT a drill‼️ We have a cover AND a release date!! This just officially became my most anticipated read of the year!!! 🤗 ≪ ◦ ❖ ◦ ≫ Connect with me on Instagram

⭐️ 6 stars this is easily one of the most gut wrenching and traumatizing books i’ve ever read. i was either crying or on the verge of tears the entire time. i don’t even know how to explain what this book made me feel my heart felt so heavy, and there was this constant ache in my chest while reading. i expected pain going in, but not like this. this book really had it out for me. there were moments so brutal that i had to put it down and just breathe. alchemised doesn’t shy away from the pain and horrors of war, and that’s what makes it so haunting and unforgettable. i love helena and kaine so deeply i was clutching my heart for them, terrified for them, rooting for them through every page. even though this book completely broke me, it’s probably my favorite read of the year. i’ll be rereading it, slowly this time, to truly take it all in. it’s the kind of story that stays with you long after you close the book, one i know i’ll think about for the rest of my life.

I’ll be staring at a wall until further notice

She was an non-active member of the Order of the Eternal Flame and did not fight. I might need to lay down for a bit after this one. Everyone needs to stop calling this a romance because it’s actually just the most beautiful trauma you’ll ever experience. 🥲 I loved this MORE than the original fic, and I looooved the fic. The world building, the magic system, the emotional punches… they all hit so good. Getting to hear SenLinYu talk about their process on this made me all the more interested in how the world worked. This story is a gut wrenching and heartbreaking tale of how no one actually gets out unscathed in war. I’m devastated in the best way. 😭 Pre read: Don’t mind me, on my way to meet one of my all time favorite writers. 😇🤭 I’ve been loving all my book events lately 🩷

6 ⭐️ (because five could never contain what this book did to me) “Why don’t you die” “Prior commitments I am afraid” “I think it would be really ungrateful if you died” “Okay but only because you asked” 😭😭 Alchemised didn’t just raise the bar for fantasy romance—it completely obliterated it. This book rewired my entire brain chemistry, and I genuinely don’t think I’ll ever come back from the experience. Kaine Ferron has changed my world in a way I never saw coming, and I’m honestly afraid nothing else I read will ever measure up. I cannot even put into words how this story made me feel, because nothing will ever do it justice. This is, without question, one of my favorite books of all time. It is GOD TIER, and I truly believe I’ve reached my peak as a reader; there’s a part of me that knows no other story will come close to the masterpiece this turned out to be. I do want to mention though, that the first 100 pages come with a lot of information—worldbuilding, politics, systems, names, histories—and it can feel intimidating at first. But do not panic. Just let the story unfold. It’s not hard to follow at all once you settle into the rhythm, and everything becomes increasingly clear, intentional, and gripping. Every detail pays off, and the payoff is extraordinary. Seriously, Part Two ruined me in ways I didn’t even know a book could. The emotional impact, the tension, the heartbreak, the parallels between Part One and Part Two—I’m still choking up thinking about how brilliantly everything tied together. The romance was beautifully tragic, deeply emotional, and so immersive that I felt every beat of their journey in my bones. Kaine Ferron is officially one of my new favorite MMCs. The writing honored every layer of who he was: morally black, deeply flawed, complex, and heartbreakingly human. His pain, his darkness, his love, everything he carried and everything he endured was rendered with such nuance that I was mesmerized by him from beginning to end. Helena was equally captivating. I loved how intelligent, brilliant, and relentless she was, and especially how fiercely she loved. Her loyalty, her strength, and the sacrifices she was willing to make were breathtaking. The moment she says, “I will always come back to you, Kaine,” absolutely destroyed me. Their love felt eternal in a way that is rarely captured on the page—raw, painful, hopeful, and unforgettable. And truly, I do not think enemies-to-lovers will ever hit quite like this again; the way their connection evolved from opposition to devotion felt so organic, so earned, and so devastatingly powerful that it set a new benchmark for the trope entirely. Also, Luc and Helena’s relationship was a gem all on its own, full of depth, tenderness, and meaning. Every bond in this story mattered, and every dynamic was written with care. It’s also important to understand what this book is and what it isn’t. This is not a romantasy. This is high fantasy with a romance subplot. Do not go into this expecting fluffy romance, constant swoony moments, or a spice-forward story. While the romance is beautiful, it is also devastating, dark, and tragic. The plot takes center stage, and it is rich, layered, political, philosophical, and deeply emotional. This is a story that asks something of you as a reader—and rewards you tenfold for giving it your attention. And please, absolutely do not forget to check the trigger warnings; this book goes to very dark places and deals with themes that may not be suitable for every reader. Beyond the love story, the themes in this book were profound, unflinching, and painfully relevant. It is a story about hate, elitism, corruption, and the brutality of being silenced, used, and broken for a cause that was never yours to begin with. It delves into the way power breeds ego, how leaders manipulate truth, and how wars are fueled by lies and upheld by the suffering of ordinary people. It also explores the weaponization of religion—how faith can be twisted into a political tool, bent to the will of those in power, and used to justify violence, obedience, and blind allegiance. Morality becomes fluid, shifting conveniently depending on who holds control and what serves their agenda. At its core, this is a story about perseverance and the desperate act of clinging to hope even when none seems possible. It examines what love can turn you into, how it can brighten your light or deepen your shadows, and how redemption remains possible, even when you have long stopped believing you deserve it. This was an epic in every sense of the word. I love these characters with everything in me. Kaine and Helena will live in my mind forever, and their love, their pain, and their journey will stay with me for a very long time. This book left a mark on me, and I know I’ll be thinking about it for years.

I'm am a physical wreck. I need to process for a little bit. But this was very good in my mind. Pretty much everything I wanted. With few exceptions. I'm very impressed.

∞ stars before i go into depth, i will say that yes, it took me weeks to finish this, but only because i’m part of the audiobook production of this in my country and it’s a long (but very exciting) process. trust me… if i could, i would read it in a few days. oh, how painful it was to not just give in and finish it. the urge was HUGE. also, you could say i read the book twice, because i always came back to re-read each chapter in english. and i wouldn’t change a thing!!! but why i’m saying this? i know many people feel nervous to start this because of the length. and i must say: don’t. there is no chapter, no scene that would be unnecessary. i actually wouldn’t even mind this being longer (lol), although i do think it ended when it needed to end. and i don’t think there is sometimes too much info, too much description. the world-building is so well done, like you're just instantly pulled in and it stays that way till the last page. ANYWAY. my thoughts? i’m heartbroken, sad, but also very happy, because this book EXCEEDED my expectations. and empty, because what do you mean this world was part of my life for over a month and now it’s over?? this book is obviously very dark. probably the darkest book i have ever read. some of the topics are heavy and it’s hard to process some parts. i felt anger, disgust, helplessness. there are chapters that often got so intense, so sad that i cried and then felt empty for hours. this is what war does. this is what war is. the writing is immaculate and the author easily pulled me in. the world, the characters, everything. helena is such a strong, underestimated human being. without her, so many people would be doomed. despite all the things that happen to her, she never loses the fire inside her and just tries and sacrifices everything. we couldn’t ask for a better fmc. thanks to her we also realize that even the good side, the side we would all pick has cracks and is not as dreamy as it pretends to be. kaine… ah kaine. the constant pain he had to go through. physically and mentally. he's stubborn, cruel, but when you get to know him more, you understand him. i will defend this man in court if i have to. my heart was breaking, getting pieced together, breaking and getting pieced together yet again for kaine and helena. of course, this is not some cute love story. don’t think you’ll get that. whilst there are moments and dialogues that make you squeal, they are very VERY rare. just a handful of them. the relationship is dark. there are moments that sicken you. and i agree it’s just a subplot to what the book is really about. still, the bond they create is so beautiful, whilst my heart was breaking for helena in part one, imagine how it was breaking during part two for kaine (and for helena again) when i realized it all. i have also decided that for my own sanity i will not talk about other characters. because whilst i kinda liked some of them, the others on the other hand... i will leave it at that. i saw someone say they wish part two was actually part one and i must disagree on so many levels. the parallels are insane, how it all just starts making sense… it’s like solving a puzzle. the story could never be told in a better way. i will probably never get over this book. i’m already so excited to re-read it one day, because that’s a need. ────୨ৎ──── ౨ৎꨄ︎ pre-read: i’m actually already on chapter 14 and i’m OBSESSED. i cannot wait to get further into the story! 😭 but anyway it’s going to take me longer than usual. not because of the length, but because i’m currently working on this at my job and i usually have to re-read, re-listen some parts (catch me quickly reading it this weekend and then having to re-read lmaoo).

Alchemised is like “The Crown” or Dubai, for that matter; you’re either going to love it or hate it. And I loved this book. There are a few things you need to consider before starting it: Reading this book will take an emotional toll on you. This is a book about war, more than anything. It depicts quite disturbing events and incidents that honestly pale in comparison to the reality of war if you’ve read about it, but they are horrifying nonetheless. The romance happens in the context of war. There is no notion of “healthy relationships,” “respectful boundaries,” or any other romanticized aspect of love. It’s the story of two people, desperately alone, who find solace in each other and are willing to do anything to save one another. It is as it’s labeled: dark. War changes people, and you see that clearly in this book. War is a losing game for everyone involved, and this is emphasized over and over again throughout the book. You watch characters, and their morality, fade away as things get messier and wilder. The book is also quite lengthy. That’s normal for historical fiction, but as a romantasy, I expected it to be divided into at least two books. The main horrendous aspect of the book is the world-building, which is quite messy. A lot of information is dumped on you early on, and you may find yourself lost several times until you catch up. For me, the story and characters were engaging enough to carry me through. Many readers may not feel the same, which is understandable. This aspect of the book reminded me so much of Curfew by José Donoso, a book I loved dearly, but many struggled with because of the confusing storytelling and difficulty staying connected. Regardless, I gave it a five star because I just loved how the story unfolded and how tragic yet peaceful it was. I just loved reading it despite the evident flaws. Bottom line: read this book with caution, understanding that you will be exposed to some dark aspects of life and love in war, and what it can do to people. Happy reading!

i am so fucking unwell its insane. please read this review at your own discretion as im mainly going to talk about my differing reading experiences with both manacled and alchemised :). there are no spoils but still, read at your own risk. i refuse to be held responsible for what you deem to want/not want to know i read manacled back in april as it was something i wanted done before alchemised came out so that i could compare the two experiences i had with them and it truly was like night and day for me personally. i got really into reading harry potter fanfic at the beginning of this year (mainly marauders) and i desperately wanted to see what all the hype was about with manacled and dramione, my short review here and though i liked it, i didnt love it and i was really hoping to see if that changed with alchemised. i am SOOOOOO beyond happy to say that i LOVED this reading experience. though the story is quite the same as it was before it felt like a more refined/polished version in a way. i felt way more with this read than i did with manacled, the ending line actually did make me tear up this time because i felt more connected to all of the key characters. with manacled i found myself truly despising almost everyone in the order with the exception of a few because of how vile they all were to the woman quite literally saving everyones asses time and again, harry and ron especially. with this while there were times that i didnt like what they were doing, i didnt hate them for it for the entirety of the story the way i did while reading manacled. i was so enthralled by this book from start to finish to the point where i had to force myself to take a break yesterday afternoon instead of binge listening to the rest and finishing it in a span of a day lol. the narrator was absolutely wonderful, she did such a beautiful job bringing helena’s story to life and i think she made the experience even more memorable. though it is truly a taxing read/listen and it is not something i will do often i am already looking forward to the future when i do want to give this a reread.

I finished this book very quickly and this is one of my favorite authors. Also, this series has become one of my favorites also and this is the 4th book in the series so far. I hope he continues. Atlee Pine is a female FBI agent with lots of history from her family and beyond. This whole series was about her finding and reuniting with her sister who was kidnapped when they were children. But I feel he can continue with many more stories about Atlee, and hope he does. Definitely recommend and maybe because I am a female, this is why I like Atlee so much as he does not have that many female heroes.

Super engaging and loads of action. 4.5 STARS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ There’s nothing like a bad ass FBI agent doing their thing. But when said agent is female it certainly takes on a whole new dimension. Balducci sets the stage with a fantastic story with the search for a missing twin sister – the FBI agents sister. In the story we gain intimate knowledge of both sets of twins on their own, but when they connect, that’s when the story really gets explosive. I love the way the author has depicted these hard-core women. Take no prisoners and make no apologies, these women have led a hard life, especially Mercy, and we come to know them intimately for all of their flaws and goodness. There is serious depth to this plot and he writes it in such a manner that there are multiple subplots revolving through continually until they all intersect. The ending was fabulous, offering extreme detail throughout. Balducci gives us edge of your seat action, and unexpected plot twists, then beautifully wrapped everything up. Engaging and exciting with every page turn! * copy received for review consideration * Full Review - https://amidlifewife.com/mercy-by-dav...

I'm always on the look out for Baldacci's latest offering as he's my favourite author and this book doesn't disappoint. This is the fourth book in the Atlee Pine series with all the usual characters. FBI Agent Atlee Pine has been trying to find out what has happened to her twin sister who was abducted 30 years ago when she was six years old. She's finally getting to the end of her journey and needs to put the pieces together, but nothing is ever that simple and there's lots going on, leading to more danger and discovery for all concerned. If you haven't read the rest of this series and want to read them all, I'd suggest you start at the beginning as this book does give you a reminder of what's already happened in the first couple of chapters which is great if its been a while since you read them, but if you enjoyed it and want to go back and the read the rest, you'll know a little to much, so would recommend starting with Long Road to Mercy, which is a great book (first in the series) and set in the Grand Canyon and introduces Atlee and her trail to discover what has happened. A fast paced and exciting thriller to complete the series. Well done on another great book. A big thanks to NetGalley and Pan Macmillan for allowing me the chance to read and review this book.

Did Atlee finally find her sister Mercy? The hunt continues throughout this novel which encompasses all of the abuse Mercy endured. Who is the real father? Gotta read it for the answer.....

A Top Notch Thriller! I have read all the books in the series and was excited to catch up with FBI Agent Atlee Pine in MERCY, the fourth and final installment in the Atlee Pine series while searching for her twin sister, Mercy. This riveting crime thriller was well worth the wait! An emotional journey and a heartfelt reunion of two twin sisters. My favorite of the series! Atlee Pine's mom left her years ago. Her sister Mercy was abducted when she was six. She has searched for her all her life. In this series, she gets assistance from her biological dad (who is mega-rich) and has connections. Jack Lineberry, is a rich guy who has homes in Atlanta and elsewhere, cars and jets and enough money to help out his daughter in search of Mercy. She is still on leave from the FBI while traveling with partner Carol Bum (a mother figure and competent paralegal). They run into many issues and help out a young girl who was being abused by two monsters and kept in a cage (their slave). This leads them to connections and her sister, who is going by another name, after escaping her abusive adopted parents (they kept her as a prisoner/slave). The man was murdered. The evil woman, they now have (what a piece of work). In a race against time, Atlee and her partner (Carol) a mother figure and a very smart paralegal, get involved with some bad guys while trying to track down Mercy. However, true to form, Baldacci does not make this adventure simple. Mercy has been through hell and back and has been traumatized by many monsters. She has scars on the inside and outside. She is a survivor and a badass! She does not trust easily, and who could blame her. Their search takes them from Georgia to Asheville, NC. David Baldacci knows how to keep the suspense high, action-packed, and twists around every corner. Jack also has some super surprises for the girls, which you will not be anticipating. Multi-layered, rich in character, the author, of course, wraps up this series like a rock star! Fans will hope we will see more of Mercy and Atlee and fingers crossed for a spin-off with Mercy! I highly recommend the audiobook narrated by my two favorite narrators, Brittany Pressley and Kyf Brewer! Award-winning, I listened in two sittings and would never miss an audiobook by these two! Fans will devour this one! If you have not read the previous books, the author does a great job providing the back story. I LOVED THE ENDING! Book Blog Review: @JudithDCollins #JDCMustReadBooks My Rating: 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 Pub Date: 11/16/21 Top Books of 2021

In a word, 'remarkable'! David Baldacci broke the mold as a mystery author by telling the tale of twin sisters, identifying their birth father while being hunted by a nemesis of the government. Its not often we encounter a law enforcement character like Atlee Pine, a 30-ish 6'+ force to contend with. A former Olympic level weight lifter, kick boxer and veteran of the military, she's not only powerful, but highly skilled in her profession. Taken from her twin sister, Mercy at age 6 and raised by foster parents, she became an FBI agent and elected to be stationed in an area near the Grand Canyon alone with her older admin, Carol Blum. This being a series of four installments, reading the finale was packed with momentum, plot twists and revelations and as the story closes, joy. While the other books were a bit more typical of mystery genre, this one stands alone due to family, reuniting of sisters and so much more. And in my opinion, THIS is what great storytelling is about. Whether you're a fan of David or not, I urge you to read the series. And since I skipped the third one, I'll be reading it next. Bravo, David, Bravo!

Thrilling, twisty, and meticulous! Mercy is a propulsive, gripping tale that picks up right where Daylight left off, taking us back into the life of FBI agent Atlee Pine, as she and her loyal assistant, Carol Blum, decide to take a leave of absence from the bureau to work full-time on discovering once and for all what happened to her twin sister, Mercy, who after escaping from her captors nineteen years ago seems to have vanished without a trace. The writing is gritty and descriptive. The characters are cunning, ruthless, and persistent. And the plot keeps you on the edge of your seat as it immerses you into a malicious tale full of twists, turns, mayhem, chaos, revenge, survival, danger, violence, cruelty, and murder. Overall, Mercy is another compelling, intricate, addictive mystery by Baldacci that I thoroughly enjoyed and highly recommend, and although it seems like it might be the last novel we get to enjoy in this series, it certainly introduced us to a new, formidable heroine, Spectator, who is easily in my opinion definitely worthy of a series of her own. Thank you to HBG Canada & Grand Central Publishing for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.

I don't know what to say about this book, but I'll give it a whirl! However, DO NOT start this series with this book. Although it provides a lot of backstories, you will have lost something precious. Astounding, riveting, violent, vicious, emotional, gratifying...I can come up with more, but why bore you? This was one of the best books I have read in quite a while. I assume that this is the last book in the series. (yes, I know what they say about assuming things!). However, I do hope that there may be at least one more book. All of the other books in this series have been written using just Atlee's point of view; this book is written a bit differently by using Atlee's and Mercy's voices as well as another secondary/main character. It was a bit spooky, but I quickly got into it. It was almost like getting three stories in one. As I said, I don't know what I can say to get you to read this, but if you like Baldacci's works and have stuck with this series, then you HAVE to read this book to see how it all ends. I liked this series so much that I went out to buy the two books I received as ARC. *ARC provided by the publisher Grand Central Publishing, the author David Baldacci, and NetGalley. Thank-you.

This writer never disappoints you. The search for mercy finally ends here but in a dramatic way but you make sense of the situation it seems fair that it could be possible. Trying not to give away any spoilers. Fantastic read with so many twists and turns along the journey, shoulders brushed past with so many important characters. Every character was wonderful and well written and developed a lot along the way. And I’m really surprised at how the book was so interesting that I always wanted to read more and more but couldn’t cuz of less time in busy life. It’s highly entertaining and interesting story, i loved it.

That finishes Book 4 of the Atlee Pine series. The series is about FBI Agent Atlee Pine's search for her twin sister, who was kidnapped when the twins were 6 years old. Atlee solves other crimes during this search and she learns a lot about what really happened to her family.

David Baldacci is one of the best authors when it comes to well written text, there is such a nice flow in his writing and it is a pleasure reading his books. I switch between reading them in Eenglish and swedish and the swedish publisher has found a marvelous translator that manages to keep the great language. Mercy is the fourth book in the Atlee Pine series and apart from solving some ordinary crimes on the way the series is mostly about Atlles search for her missing sister Mercy. This is a series you should read in order otherwise you will spoil the story. Although I like Atlee Pine as a character I think Carol Blum and the new character Eloise are even better, I really liked Eloise and her attitude. This series is not one of my favorite when it comes to Baldacci but I found it great anyway. It's a dark story with lots of thrills. Much recommended.

Many thanks to the beautiful friend that introduced me to the excellent writer that is David Baldacci! This book the final one in the Atlee series had me on a high. On edge with its constant suspense and shock revelations! Seriously could not put this book down until it was finished. Thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and the others in this series

I realized that I read the conclusion of the Atlee series before I read the other books in the series but I loved how it ended!

#Mercy #NetGalley The final installment in FBI Agent Atlee Pine and her search to find her sister Mercy who was kidnapped 30 years ago. David Baldacci is a master of his craft and this book, like all previous books by this author, keeps you gripped from the first page. Lots of action and plenty of twists and turns leading to the finale and all the tying up of loose ends. Whilst it was brilliant to read this series and to see it through to its conclusion, I feel a little sad that there won't me more installments in this series! a very well deserved 5 stars!

When FBI Special Agent Atlee Pine was just six years old her twin sister, Mercy, was abducted and she was left for dead. For the last three decades Atlee has been searching for anything or anyone to tell her what actually happened and why. Now, after taking a serious leave of absence from her job, along with her assistant Carol Blum, there is a chance her quest is about to end. After her time working with John Puller, Atlee knows where to go next, she just doesn't know how it will turn out. With the stakes at their highest the chance of failure isn't one she wants to contemplate but as she gets nearer to her goal it is a possibility which haunts her every move. This has been a roller coaster of a ride from the time Atlee is advised to take some leave in the first book through to the final novel where things come to a conclusion. Once again Carol Blum is at her side and together they still make a pretty awesome team with an ever evolving relationship between them. David Baldacci is a master storyteller who can write physical contact like no other. The fight scenes in this book are heart stopping and easy to visualise. After the three previous books I so wanted Atlee to continue to be the no nonsense, kick ass heroine of her universe and she absolutely was. Of course the reason for her mission has been clear from the start but how it would end never was. That doesn't change throughout this final book and, as she faces the risk of failure, danger from all sides, and the revenge of those desperate to keep their secrets safe, nothing is certain until the very end although even then there are still shocks to discover. I was able to read an advanced copy of this book thanks to NetGalley and the publishers but the opinions expressed are my own own. I will miss Atlee Pine but this was an excellent end to her story and highly recommended.

A completely tremendous book with action and intrigue, tells a great story and fulfills in every way. Characters are all thoroughly enjoyable. I hope there are more in this series with all these kick-ass characters.

If I could rate it higher than 5 stars I would! Sorry to see this series end.

4th in the Attlee Pine series and just as good as the previous books. This is the one where the original story thread comes to an end and it was no disappointment. Totally awesome ride.

Sad it's over I will miss Atlee!

"Well, well, well, as I live and breathe. Hester Crimstein in my little station." Whether you are stumbling across this review in search of a new stand-alone thriller or as a long term fan of the author, you are equal parts welcome here. Friends, The Boy from the Woods is Harlan Coben at his best, and let me tell you why. Readers of Stephen King claim their loyalty as a fan base in part because he has an uncanny way of providing layers to his work. Sure, you can jump right in to most of his fictional pieces and get by just fine, but once you've experienced a few of his stories, you start to find the hidden gems, cross references, and golden nuggets that he leaves behind for those who wish to go deeper. What King does for science fiction, fantasy, and horror, Harlan Coben does for crime fiction. Did you happen to read Run Away earlier this year? If so, you'll find out early on that the events of The Boy from the Woods happen tangentially to what Simon Greene experiences in Run Away. Don't worry if you haven't read it; there are no spoilers for that plot in this book, and you could still go back and read Run Away after finishing this one, as they are two separate entities. However, this is just an example of the easter eggs you'll find throughout if you're a dedicated fan. *clears throat* ---> insert Hester Crimstein If you're new around here, let me catch you up to speed. Hester is a 70-something year old defense attorney who is a little bit of this: And a whole lotta this: Basically, she's one of my favorite fictional characters of all time. She's got style, she's got class, and she's a teeny tiny woman who's a great big smart ass. Each and every time she has shown up in one of the author's books as a supporting character, I've longed for an in depth peek into her story. Finally, it's here! I won't say too much, other than this was everything I have been waiting for over the past 12 years of reading Coben's novels. Also, Hester getting a romance will fix everything that is wrong in the world, I assure you. The reason Hester is a central character in this book is because her grandson, Matthew, is tangled up in something he shouldn't have been (teenagers, amiright?). There is another aspect of the story that is described in the synopsis, and I don't want to mention it here specifically, but it's worth stating that it kept my focus in a different place which, in turn, helped keep most of the twists and turns a surprise. As a reader, I've always found that the very best thrillers are equal parts gripping plot progression and in depth character development. Harlan Coben manages to balance action scenes with emotional connections as a perfected art form, which is why he has become one of my most trusted go-to authors of the past decade. Perhaps being a long time fan allowed me to appreciate every instance of crossover characters, every exclamation of "Articulate!" when a phone was answered, and every familiar setting that I've grown exceptionally fond of between NJ and NYC, but I believe The Boy from the Woods stands on its own as a memorable thriller. I enjoyed every minute I spent with this book, and I hope to meet Hester, Oren, and a few other characters in future endeavors. *Many thanks to the author for providing my review copy.

This is whirlwind, complex, action-packed and definitely wilder crazy train ride that I expected to take a full tour! Including: Political scandal, secret tapes, school bullying, disappearing teenager, a man’s stunning story who has been found in the woods, fighting to gather the pieces of his past. This seems like a complex mix and Mr, Coben juggling too many balls at the same time but thankfully he doesn’t drop any of them and we get our answers for each detailed mysterious factors to finish the remarkable puzzle. We’re introduced another mysterious character named Wilde. That’s why they call him anyways because decades ago he was found in the woods, trying to survive by himself, suffering from night terrors and a memory of auburn haired beautiful woman (could she be his mom? We have no clue!) His only friend was David who died in a car accident that he was driving that car. He stayed connected with David’s family including his mother Hester Crimstein who is kickass lawyer and famous TV personality, his grandson Malcolm and he’s having a secret affair with David’s wife. But he likes to be distanced from people, live in a Ecocapsule house reminded us of a sc-ifi project), suffering from OCD, foster cared, having a sister he can call for urgent times, excelled in his studies, worked at special secret missions at the military and now he’s working as a private detective. After a long introduction about our character, let’s move on the plot: Malcolm tells Hester a girl from his school named Naomi is absent and he worries about her well-being. He is tight lipped at first but Hester realizes the girl is outcast, got bullied at school and her father is heavy drinker. So Hester decides to check on her by visiting their house and Naomi’s father denies her absence. Something seems fishy! So Hester calls Wilde to help her. Everything starts with missing girl story who is being bullied by powerful, elite, popular school boys. Wilde finds out the girl was hiding in the basement. They easily connect because Wilde knows well how to be outcast and to survive in the real and metaphorical jungle. But a few days later, the girl really disappears and this time, her father wants to hire Wilde to find her. And a kidnapper sends human fingers. Yes! I have to stop here. You want to ask me to “articulate” (This is the signature way of Hester’s answering her calls which I already start to answer like her!) but my lips are sealed . No more beans will come out! (I don’t like beans anyways!) This is fast, action-packed, smart, entertaining reading with Mr. Coben’s talented, sarcastic story-telling skills. And we have cameo of Simon from Run Away. Hester also mentioned my favorite Harlan Coben character: Myron Bolitar (She didn’t call his name. She mentioned him as a star basketball player friend!) And Malcolm and Crash talked about their favorite drink yoohoo (Myron’s favorite drink!) I know Wilde’s open-ended story makes you think, we already said goodbye to him. But I’m not so sure. I think we gotta prepare ourselves to read more Wilde series because after my Myron Bolitar obsession, I think the author gave us a unique, layered, mysterious and charming Tarzan meets young Marc Singer from Beastmaster kind of Alpha male character. So I’m looking forward to read more and learn about his secret past! I went back and forth between 4 and 5 stars. I enjoyed the action packed, exciting, moving development and captivating pacing. The only problem is there are too many materials in this book to write three different more books. So many plots and subplots, crowded characterization exhaust our brains (I already lost five more cells which were fried after reading those exciting but also complex chapters!) but I have to admit, the author connected each piece of the puzzle meticulously. At least there are no plot holes or illogical explanation or nonsense revelation. I wish we learned more about the background of Wilde but the author has big plans about him. I can sense it. Let’s give 4.5 and round them up to 5 and waiting for the next chapter! blog instagram facebook twitter

Oh where to start! Harlan Coben is one of my all time favourite writers and I actually squealed when I was approved for an early copy of The Boy From The Woods. So no pressure Mr Coben, no pressure. I knew that I had to be free of other commitments when I picked up this book. Absolutely pleased to report that this book is fantastic 🤗 Not going to talk too much about the plot for this one. I did not know too much about it going in and left it all to be a surprise. There are wonderful surprises for long time Coben fans. This is a stand alone book most definitely. I do hope that Wilde is a character that we will meet again soon. I really enjoyed reading about him and would love for more. He is a very different character and one you won’t forget in a hurry, This is a story of missing children, political scandal, family and money. It is constantly moving story that leaves you little time for recovery from the last revelation. It twists so many times you will never guess the ending. I can not recommend this book or Harlan Coben enough. Thank you so much to Random House UK, Cornerstone Century and NetGalley for my advanced copy of this book to read. All opinions are my own and are in no way biased

Famed defense attorney Hester Crimstein becomes concerned when her grandson reaches out to her about a missing classmate. Naomi Pine has disappeared and no one seems to be looking for her. Hester then goes to a man named Wilde for help who has an extraordinary story of his own. Over thirty years ago, he was found in the woods near her home, apparently living there for quite some time. He was only about six or seven years old and didn’t remember his name or how he got there but had established a relationship with Hester’s late son, David. As Wilde probes into the situation, he finds himself drawn to the plight of a young girl who was subjected to bullying and neglect. But, in the process, he also lands himself in the middle of some adult intrigue that may or may not be connected. I’m a long time fan of the author having finished his Myron Bolitar series and read many of his standalone titles. Hester’s name has appeared in a number of these books so I was beyond excited to see her be a main focus in this book. She opens the story in quintessential Hester style, which hooked me immediately. She’s as witty and funny as I’d imagined her with an equally sharp mind. While the story tackles a number of issues, including a subtle connection to today’s political environment, it wasn’t overwhelming as they were expertly threaded together, even those seemingly disconnected storylines. Wilde is an enigma who I’m not sure I ever really figured out but I hold him in the same high esteem as Myron Bolitar. I loved the connections to other books, just little things that won’t confuse those unfamiliar with them but will give “aha!” moments to those of us with that history. Steven Weber gave another great performance, especially with his definition of Hester. I only listen to Coben’s books these days because he’s narrating them. This story had everything I was looking for...twisty moves, humor, complicated characters and a gnarly mystery. And, he left the door open for a possible follow up, right? One can hope. Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to Brilliance Audio for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

When it comes to timely reading of pre-publication books I get by way of NetGalley, I try to play it straight - really, I do - by reading them in order of next to be released. But sometimes I get one I'm so excited about that it jumps to the head of the line. This is one of those times. And to the half-dozen books that got pushed aside, I promise to get to them soon, but love means never having to say you're sorry. This one was way too good for apologies. It's most notable to me for the interesting characters, starting with Wilde, a now-grown man who, as a young boy, was found living in a state forest. He had no memory of a family, or how he got there, curiously attributing his language ability to sneaking into people's homes when they were gone to watch TV shows like Sesame Street and videos (how he learned to turn them on remains a mystery to me, but hey). Also important to this story is attorney Hester Crimstein, a somewhat quirky but very likable character who has appeared in previous books. At this stage of his life, Wilde has become quite accomplished, having graduated from West Point and served in the military, but he remains somewhat reclusive and continues to live in the forest in an eco-friendly but technologically advanced pod-like structure that can be moved around at will. He has no real emotional attachment to anyone and prefers living alone - how he survived communal living at West Point and the military is beyond me, but I'm guessing it wasn't the most fun he ever had in his life. But back in the woods, he manages to collect a menagerie of former and current ladies. More to the point here, he was good friends with Hester's late son, David (and, of course, with Hester). A young girl named Naomi Pines, a victim of bullying at school, goes missing, and her off-and-on classmate, Matthew (Hester's grandson) is so worried that he begs her to look into her disappearance. When Hester asks viewers of her popular TV show to be on the lookout for Naomi, all heck seems to break loose. Much of that emanates from the wealthy and powerful parents of one of the boys who bullied Naomi unmercifully (exactly why school teachers and officials always looked the other way when that happened isn't clear, but I suppose it has something to do with not wanting to get on the wrong side of those snooty parents). Of course, there's a subplot that involves goings-on and the potential for blackmail among the aforementioned filthy rich parents and their friends, one of whom is making a run for a major political office. And that leads to some political commentary which, I presume, reflects the author's opinions (and certainly mine), to-wit: "The middle class has become complacent. They are smart, but they are lazy. They see the grays, they get the other side. Extremists, on the other hand, see only black and white. They are not only certain that their vision is absolutely correct, but they are incapable of even understanding the other side. Those who don't believe as they do are lesser in every way...They don't see right or wrong - they see us and them." Aided by some old friends, Wilde ratchets up his investigative skills to find Naomi; and when another youth goes missing and the plot thickens, they tackle that as well - sometimes at their own peril. All in all, it's a sometimes harrowing experience for the characters and a whirlwind for readers - at least for me. Loved it - many thanks for the opportunity to read and review it.

Bullying is a Crime *Some minor spoilers ahead* “ How does she survive? How does she manage to get through this torment every single day? Day after day. Week after week. Year after year. She sits in the school assembly hall, her eyes fixed, unseeing, unblinking. Her face is stone, a mask. She doesn’t look left or right. She doesn’t move at all. She just stares straight ahead. She is surrounded by classmates, including Matthew, but she doesn’t look at any of them. She doesn’t talk to any of them either, though that doesn’t stop them from talking to her. The boys — Ryan, Crash (yes, that’s his real name), Trevor, Carter — keep calling her names, harshly whispering awful things, jeering at her, laughing with scorn. They throw things at her. Paper clips. Rubber bands. Flick snot from their noses. They put small pieces of paper in their mouths, wad the paper into wet balls, propel them in various ways at her. When the paper sticks to her hair, they laugh some more. The girl — her name is Naomi — doesn’t move. She doesn’t try to pull the wads of paper out of her hair. She just stares straight ahead. Her eyes are dry. Matthew could remember a time, two or three years ago, when her eyes would moisten during these ceaseless, unrelenting, daily taunts. But not anymore...” Naomi is a permanent bullying target. Teachers used to react with a couple of reprehensive words, but... that wasn’t enough! A stronger punishment was required. However, that never happened! Nothing has been done to help Naomi, nothing to put an end to her continuous torture! And now... she’s no longer there... Where did she go? Is she hidden? Heading for a new start? Planning revenge? Did she kill herself? Will the bullies get the punishment they deserve? ....... When humans seem incapable to deal with their own s**t, the cosmic software provides a helping hand — later on, an “Angel” will drop by and an amputated finger will join the plot ... Naomi isn’t real, but could... She stands for all those kids who have been marked for life by those human aberrations that go by the name of bullies! Bullying is a crime punished by law. Sadly, in practical terms, passivity prevails! ...

I did not want to put this one down. And... To be honest, I have had sleepless nights lately, for obvious reasons. (If they aren’t obvious to you, PM me, and we can talk.) But... When it comes to this book, action-wise, this book was excellent, the pacing never lagged. The story even tied well into our own American current political characters (whom I choose to keep nameless). Read the story, you will get who I mean, as you read along. Political secrets and cover-ups abound! I would compare reading this book to watching an action movie where the characters are mysterious and charismatic, and the plot is intriguing and you are constantly asking questions wanting to know what happened, where are they, who did it, why? And of course...When you can’t put the book down because it is so good in this way, that makes it even better, right? The sequel: The Match review is here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...

I have begun to fall in love with Mr Coben again. He and I have had a little time apart but the dalliance has started again, and now that it has, I am wanting more. And I usually get what I want. My local library has 17 copies, yes 17, of Win. So lonely I will not be. This was a fabulous stand alone, narrated calmly and collectedly. The voices smooth from character to character transition, with no cringey moments. But he did say Heather Crimstein twice. I kept repeating for clarification, I have pretty good attention to detail so I thought it was kind of funny. Hester would have your balls for breakfast for this! The funny banter that is what makes HC is always there, I love it, it makes for such a good reading. It is like all his characters are sharp and witty. Well the goodies, at least. The few twists were great, the protag was capable, strong and smooth. He was definitely after the greater good, but also perfect he was not. He certainly let a few things slide; he wasn't a shiny all American hero. He knew his role was not to play God. But of course this, ladies (and gents) is all part of the appeal! Wilde, this man I am referring to, was discovered by hikers when he was estimated to be six to eight years of age. He was spoken in urban legend whispers before this time. I love his story, he learned to survive and read and learn on his own and eventually was trained as an elite soldier. He becomes involved with a teenage girl's disappearance and this has links to a more murky and sinister area of dodgy politics, the wealthy and seemingly immune to prosecution elite. There is a teenie bit of romance, not too much to take over, but just enough for us to want Wilde to be happy. But a lot of the importance of this book is the famous Hester. She is 70 now and is playing more of a meaty role than the bit parts she has always been. She is whip smart and has again, terrific banter, mostly with Wilde. She uses 'articulate' as her choice of greeting when her phone rings. And of course we know this is Win's (from Deal Breaker catch phrase. We learn more about her character, about the relationship with her family and that she now is possibly allowing room for a little romance of her own. She's such a smart attorney, anyone would be lucky to have her on their side. And tremble in their wake if they were on her bad side. She has her live television show where she always knows what to say with crack neck speed retorts. So pleased to have read another of HC, I am also reading my physical format at the moment also by the same author as I always have both formats running concurrently. Recommended easy reading that is exciting and hard to put down, and that reading friends, is what we all know as gold.

As with every single prior Harlan Coben novel, I am in love with these characters, this book and I can't believe I have to wait a year for a new book! The Boy in the Woods features a connection to one of my favorite Coben recurring characters, the esteemed Hester Crimstein, but this time, Hester is one of the stars of the show (we do get an "articulate" reference as well) - including these easter eggs to past books or characters is one of my favorite things about reading Coben - it's like an inside joke with these characters who have been in my life for so many years. The book itself - a missing teenager, an unstable political personality and somewhere in the middle, there's Wilde, the man who was rescued raising himself in the woods as a small child (and befriended by Crimstein's late son). Wilde is one of the most interesting protagonists Coben has created to date and if you've read Coben's work previously, you know that that is really saying something. This story had me guessing from page to page and loving as it all came together. Kudos, Mr. Coben on another FIVE star read! I can't wait for March 2020 til the rest of the world gets to experience the magic of this book! Thank you to Grand Central Publishing for an advanced copy. All opinions are my own.

Fill the Gaps There’s a boy named Wilde: Not Wilde like in Oscar Wilde but Wilde wild, like a New Jersey Tarzan There’s a girl named Naomi: A girl whose smile is a faint memory. She was a permanent bullying target and now she’s missing And there’s Hester: A criminal lawyer who was asked to find Naomi And Matthew: The tall, dark, nice and caring Hester’s grandson. He has flaws but we’ll forgive him And an amputated finger from a boy named Crash ................... Now it’s up to you to fill the gaps 😉 All in all The Boy from the Woods is a book about the cost of fitting in ignoring our true self and the devastating effects of bullying and child abuse

The Boy From The Woods may be my favourite Coben novel yet and that’s saying something because I’m a huge fan. Nobody writes twisty thrillers with brilliant characters quite like this author- for whatever reason I engaged even more with this one, likely down to its two main protagonists Wilde and Hester. The story itself is pacy, addictive and very intelligent- something I’ve come to expect when picking one of these up and I have yet to be disappointed. The Boy From The Woods fairly rocks along, totally unpredictable and ultimately hugely satisfying. There’s absolutely more to come from Wilde and I’m happily anticipating what may come next… However this is also a contained story with characters you root for and ones you’d like to stab in the eye with a pencil (just me? Ok then..) and I barely drew breath first page to last, never quite sure where it was heading but dying to find out. Harlan Coban always works with the grey area of morality and the yin yang between Wilde and Hester is pitch perfect. A clever, involving plot and a right old page turner. What more can you ask for? Highly Recommended.

Wilde had been found as a boy in the woods. With not knowing who he was or where he came from. He snuck into peoples house and watch TV and learned computers so when he was found he knew how to read and talk. It is now 30 years later and he still doesn't know who he is or where his family is. He lives a very simple life in the woods. Hester Crimstein is a famous TV lawyer and has a connection to Wilde, since he was her son's best friend growing up. When a local girl ends up missing Hester asks Wilde for his help to find her. He is a retired soldier and has ways to find things out. I have always loved Harlan Coben but am behind in his books so I had to pick this one up and I was not disappointed. Thank you to Grand Central and Netgalley for the arc to review. #NetGalley #grandcentral

Sooo good. This was my first Harlan Coben book and i was on the edge of my seat. I listened on audible and Steven Weber did a great narration. Wilde was a great character and I can't wait until the 2nd book comes out and I can continue this journey. ..I also found Rusty Eggers to be a "Trumpy" character, not in a good way or bad way, just similar. A great book!

Sometimes a book is way better the second time you read it. That's how it felt when I re-read "The Boy from the Woods". I'm glad I did that because 2019 was not a good year for me, as I went through a massive book burnout that made me stop reviewing books. It took me some time to get my love for reading back. Anyhow, I have some books that I need to re-read to be able to review them, mostly because I can't remember enough to do so. So, I picked this book and decided to listen to the audiobook version. I was hooked! Then again, Harlan Coben has been a favorite author of mine for many years. I loved the storyline; Wilde is a great character, and I'm eager to read the sequel (which I haven't read). I love books with twists that truly surprise me, and this one had an ending that I didn't see coming (lol, as I wrote before, I didn't remember the story at all). Harlan Coben is the best. Read his books!

Wilde was literally a wild feral boy found some thirty years earlier who is now working as an investigator figuring out a couple of missing teenagers. The investigation leads to the path back to his history. As the plots interweave and connect, Coben provides a cast of complex characters that I enjoyed reading about. This is my first Harlan Coben book and now I know why Coben has such a loyal following. Coben is a master storyteller of thrillers and mysteries. This was an edge of my seat read that kept my interest from the very first page. This was a wow read that I was completely engrossed in, and had me turning those pages as quickly as I possibly can to find out what is coming next. There is just a lot going on and I really liked the complex plot twists and surprises sprinkled throughout. This was a really enjoyable thriller read that I highly recommend.

Harlan Coben is one of my favorite authors and I loved this book. In fact, IMO, it is one of his best. All the characters are wonderful and so likeable, except for the bad guys of course. I just want to know more about these people. It's the story of a young man who was found "in the woods" when he was a small child living by himself and he remembered no past when he wasn't living like that. So the skills he learned surviving in the woods helped him become an investigator. He's a very interesting character as well is the lawyer he works with. Loved this book!

Art galleries, artists, and collectors are the focus of the sixty-first book in J. D. Robb’s well-written futuristic police procedural set in New York City (NYC), Framed in Death. This novel takes place in September of 2061 and features Lieutenant Eve Dallas with the NYC homicide police department, her husband, Roarke, and her partner, Detective Delia Peabody, along with an assortment of regular secondary characters. While there are numerous galleries and collectors in Manhattan, one man’s brilliance is unrecognized by them. He vows his work will be well-known tomorrow. Dallas is called to the home of two gallery owners. An elaborately costumed and dead woman has been posed to resemble the model of a long-ago Dutch master. Time spent with Dallas, Roarke, Peabody, and their colleagues and friends is always entertaining. Eve is smart, tenacious, determined, focused, and believes in what she does. It’s been a journey through these novels to see how she adapts socially. It’s compelling to see how Eve’s mind works as she gets a better picture of the killer. While she hates the associated paperwork and media requirements of her job, she feels it’s her duty to build a case that brings justice to the victims and those who mourn them. As always, the interactions between Dallas and Roarke as well as with their friends and her homicide team are enjoyable and bring different facets of her personality to light. There are several reoccurring characters that develop and gain depth over the course of the series. Robb is an excellent storyteller who combines clever plots, intense scenes, lots of solid police investigation, and engaging characters with depth. The narrative has the right balance of mystery, police investigation, romance, and creative twists. This is a favorite series of mine and the author continues to deliver outstanding stories. Adding in personal moments like that of the House Tour and move-in-dinner continues to add depth to the characters. Murder, suspense, and drama immediately pull readers into the storyline. While the novel is mainly from Dallas’ point of view, readers get insight into the killer’s mind in a few chapters, including the chilling first chapter. My one quibble with the book is that readers find out the identity of the killer relatively early in the book (although the police don’t find out until much later). The author is skilled in using humor to bring out character personalities as well as to offset some of the more serious aspects of the story. Strong characters, excellent pacing, and delightful relationships are a constant in this series. Woven through the novel are threads of friendship, standing for victims, connections, jealousy, justice, trust, found family, and much more. Overall, this novel was a tale with great characterization and a solid plot that kept me engaged throughout the story. If you enjoy intriguing near-future police procedurals with a strong female lead, then I recommend this series. I can’t wait to read the next book. J. D. Robb is a pseudonym for author Nora Roberts. St. Martin’s Press and J.D. Robb provided a complimentary digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. All thoughts and opinions expressed in this review are my own. The publication date is currently set for September 02, 2025. -------------------------------------- My 4.7 rounded to 5 stars review is coming soon.

Ohhh, how I love this series and all of the characters in it!! I literally jumped for joy when I was gifted this ARC for review. Every case is well planned, and the amazing work of Eve and the detectives and officers in her squad is just magic. There are a lot of books in this series, but if you haven't started, I'd say you would definitely not regret it. Thank you to Net Galley and St Martin's Press for allowing me to read this ARC in exchange for my honest review.

Framed in Death by J D Robb In Death series #61. Futuristic police procedural. Can be read as a stand-alone but better as part of the series because of the recurring regular characters. A body is found, dressed and posed as a famous painting outside an art gallery in New York and Lt. Eve Dallas and her team are called in to investigate. A second body the next day and a different painting gives them the evidence they need to trace and clues to follow to track down the killer. 🎧 I listened to an audiobook narrated by Susan Ericksen who does the full series. The performance includes specific distinct voices for many of the main characters with Eve’s emotions of anger and determination coming through clearly. Roarke’s accent and Peobody’s voice help bring the familiar through for anyone following this series. I did listen at 1.5 and above to more closely match local conversation speed. While New York 2061 is not my local environment, nor the murder aspect, it still feels like coming home when reading these books. It’s always fun to revisit with characters we’ve come to know and love. The mysteries are always well written as Eve walks through the mind of the killer before she actually knows who it is. The supporting characters, including advanced technology make the story absorbing and thrilling. Another successful case I was able to follow and be amazed at not only the investigation but the writing as well. I received a copy of this from NetGalley and Macmillan Audio.

The last couple of books haven't been my favorite in this series (and I've read EVERY book, most of them twice.) But this (#61!) reminds me that J.D. Robb is still a terrific storyteller and that just because there are a couple of meh books doesn't mean the series is on the downslope. I won't rehash the synopsis, but ultimately, this was a solid police procedural where Eve and her team had to work for answers, which I really enjoyed. (Sometimes, the answers come too easily, or Eve's gut is confirmed early on, and it's less fun to read. This one was far more realistic for me.) Also what hasn't been done in a long time was bringing the characters to court with Cher Rio playing a slightly bigger role. It added more layers to the story. Plus, we get to spend time with most of our favorite characters. Big thumbs up.

This is book 61 in the In Death series, but I have been reading these in a bit of a random order and that works. There are some story lines that slowly progress but for the most part each book is a mystery. In this one Lt. Dallas gets called to the scene of a person left dead and posed like a famous painting. I liked that this one showed us what he killer was early, it wasn’t about who did it, it was about how do they catch him. This killer had an abundance of resources and it was fun seeing how they would catch and make sure he stayed caught. I also liked that we saw a fair bit from the killer’s perspective, it was interesting and bit different. These are so fun to read, I listened to this one and the narration was really good and brought the characters to life.

Framed In Death is the 61st book and an excellent addition in J.D. Robb's "In Death" series. In 2061, Lieutenant Eve Dallas heads the New York City Homicide team. She is married to Roarke, a gorgeous wealthy Irish entrepreneur. In this story she has to find a formidable killer who recreates scenes from a famous painting with each victim. A unique storyline that was difficult to stop listening to. With each and every "In Death" book I love re-visiting all of the characters that I have come to know and care about. Excellent narration, once again, by Susan Ericksen. Thank you to NetGalley and Macmillan Audio for an advance copy of this audiobook.

Loved this book! Money doesn’t solve all problems!

every. single. book. 🥰

1. Ok, who is the candy thief?? 2. This was an interesting case. A guy recreating famous painting and killing the models. 3. You get cameos from all the usuals- the cops (and their ties), Rio, Mira, Mavis, all of them!

Author: J.D. Robb (Nora Roberts) Genres: Fiction/Mystery/Suspense/Thriller Rating: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Summary: In Manhattan’s flashy art world, one overlooked artist vows to make the city notice him. By morning, a young woman is found dead, posed like a figure from a Dutch painting. Now, Lt. Eve Dallas must uncover the killer behind the chilling display. Tropes & Themes: hunt for a serial killer, revenge, using killing as artistry, enabling behavior, entitlement, justice and morality, privilege of life, and impact of scientific technology. Character: Why is Roarke so smart? He is very knowledgeable, and he is always able to provide resources for Detective Eve's cases. He really brings a good balance to the book. Thoughts: Thank you to the publisher for sending this ALC to me for review. This review are my own thoughts. I really loved this book. I was truly not and will never be disappointed with the "In Death" series. First, the narrator was amazing, and I loved the way that she was able to distinguish each character's voices. I appreciate the appropriate tone and mood of the narration, which really brought the book to life. Second, J.D. Robb is just an amazing writer when it comes to this series. She knows how to keep one turning the pages and this is one book that I would love to purchase when it is released. One of the themes that resonated with me is as parents, often times we can and will enable certain behaviors in children. The killer really had an entitled mindset due to his mother's enabling. Obviously, he grew up not being held accountable for his actions in which his parents just used money to make problems go away or make things happen. In the end, I was shocked when his mother knowingly enabled behavior. Money cannot fix everything! Overall, it was definitely a five-star read for me.

I am SO spoiled to not only have this book for early ‘reading’, but I have the audio copy which is Narrated by the time honored brilliant & talented Susan Ericksen❤️. This is one of the more interesting stories, which includes most of the Detectives and EGeeks, along with Mira and DelRio. This is a long, complicated story about a completely spoiled, pampered rich kid with zero talent as an Artist (I am also zero talented in art, but choose to simply enjoy the artistic endeavors of others.) and his “collection,” which he stated he wanted to include 8 ‘models’ and was, through great international detective work, shut down at three murders. He thought his portraits to be brilliant, clever and he had no concern whatsoever for the LC’s he killed. ‘LC’ is the term for Licensed Companion services in NYC in the year 2061… By the time the murders are stopped, in brilliant fashion by Lt Dallas and her crew, we shall see the murderous artist and his overindulgent and entitled mother on their way to some quality time in cages, off planet to boot. Another great book in this outstanding series! I cannot wait for the next one, Stolen in Death, due 2 February 2026. My thanks to Macmillan Audio for the brilliant presentation of this book for review purposes. P.S. Separate review(s) will be offered to NG.

In the name of justice As always, JD Robb, got it just right! She took a small, entitled man who needed the world to see how exceptional his artistry was, created in him a killer and had her heroine bring him to justice. I love the details she brought to bear on the preparation, the crimes, the characters and the steps taken to get to that justice. The partnerships of Eve and Roarke, Dallas and Peabody, Peabody and McNab, the other officer’s and their partners, Mira (and Dennis), Fenney, Whitney, APA Reo, Nadine, Mavis (and Leonardo) have become, over the years, people I look forward to catch up with as I read each In Death novel. I was behind in reading this book but it was worth the wait!

A truly excellent addition to the In Death series. Loved the ride!

Not into art but damn! Top 10 favourite JD Robb book

To everyone who knows me, I follow the In Death series by J.D. Robb religiously….This is book 61! Review Framed in Death by JD Robb 4.5 stars Framed in Death brings forth a pretentious killer who kills for the name sparking passion in their art. In this book, we get POVs from the killer's end where the readers know who the killer is. This also makes it an interesting read because the killer would prop his victims up to represent famous classic paintings such as “The Lady with the Pearl Earring” and it is a race against time with the killer going for one victim every night before Eve and her team caught him. | “With rank, comes bullshit” Even to Jenkinson, her second in command on the bs of paperwork | As always, the book prioritizes the interpersonal relationships that Eve has such as one with her partner where their house of dreams is completed and Eve and Roarke were invited for dinner. It’s great to finally see a project over the course of several books completed. The relationships that Eve has with her crew of cops is great to see especially how they leaned to her case due to time constraints. |”I do enjoy your bullpen, Lieutenant. I enjoyed it very much. It’s never dull” Roarke to Eve during his visit to her work place| My favourite moments are always Eve’s interactions with Roake. The understanding and love they have for each other just grows - such as the marriage rules note with Eve always giving a heads up to Roarke if she is late, the money lending where Eve will always pay Roarke back to the formidable outfits Roarke always picks out for her. And their moments with Galahad, their cat where he sneaks up during breakfast time to get himself some and to a point that Roarke would banish him out of the bedroom and bring the used dishes to the closet to lock them in. It is always fascinating to see Eve’s mind works and in this case, there were a lot of chipping aways and circumstantial moments before finally apprehending the killer. We also get to see how sometimes the law can make things more lenient when money can buy anything and how Eve and her team outsmarts the killer here. It was a fun and riveting read for me. I would always recommend this series, as it features a strong female lead, police investigative elements thrown in, touchpoints of love, friendships, found family, and murder mystery elements.

Yes! Yes! Yes and more Yes! This is how a mystery is written! I have absolutely no idea how the author continues to make the characters, storylines and mysteries feel so fresh when she has surpassed 60 books in the series, but each book is better than the last and this one definitely hits it off the charts! Fabulous characters that are so well developed, although I do recommend starting with book 1 and going in order so you get to know the characters more fully. If you read the series in order the characters definitely get more fully fleshed out. The interactions, witty banter and relationships between the characters are always outstanding, but this book takes them to the next level. The mystery is woven throughout the personal stories of the characters as they rush to solve the mystery before another murder is committed making the story have more depth than a lot of stories. This series is a must listen series as the audio narrator makes each character unique and recognizable whether the author has written their name in or not. This makes the story even more impactful and breathes an extra layer of life into each book. I'll be anxiously awaiting the next book in the series!!!

This is an excellent futuristic murder mystery about a young wealthy man ,who is so narcissistic that he becomes a serial killer ,to prove he is the ultimate artist. Young LC’s keep showing up dead, posed , and dressed to look like a famous model, from a painting from centuries past. Everything about each model is dressed to perfectly match a bygone famous painting. Everything is exact, from the outfit, jewels, shoes, and size of the original model. Everything, and her full team have to figure out why this is going on, since the models cannot look exactly the same, since the original’s are long dead. The bodies are left posed at the door of homes, or doors of art dealers. The story takes you all over Europe as they search for a name, and a face to match the killer. The book was filled with research about the details concerning the original masterpieces. It was a very detailed book since the killer was kidnapping almost daily , and the body left the next day. The artist himself was only brilliant ,in his own mind. His work was as lifeless as his victims. Everyone from Roarke, to her complete murder unit is involved, so you catch up with most of her characters. It is a race against time, since most people do not really remember the artist, just the poor attempt at workmanship , in the artwork. The story builds as the body count grows, and you feel the pressure to keep the next chosen model alive. The book was awesome, but the killer was totally detached , due to his belief he was improving art, and making his victims immortal. 5 stars for the 61 st book in her series. It was all hands on deck in her world , of being a brilliant detective, and detailed police work. It was a change from her usual style, but engaging as always .

This is the 61st book in a blockbuster series that never grows old. The challenge for Lt. Eve Dallas and her colleagues this time is an obscure artist serial killer who wants to be famous in a different way. Since he has not made it the regular way in the art world, he decided to kill victims and pose them like famous paintings, complete with period costumes. Eve and Peabody and the gang focus on the task of finding the killer while also demonstrating that their personal lives are important, too. As usual, Eve depends on Roarke’s help to follow the clues and find the perpetrator. The premise was interesting and I took the time to look up the actual painting that the author referenced in the killings. That helped picture the scenes of the crimes and made the book more interesting to me. The plot is mostly fast-paced with a few slowdowns as the scene was set for the next victim. The characters are likable and dynamic and the villain was believably irredeemable as well as hard to catch. The conclusion was a little different from what I expected but in a good and riveting way that kept my attention after the bad guy was captured. Well worth the read and entertaining from start to finish. I voluntarily received a complimentary copy of this book from the publisher via Netgalley. I was not required to write a positive review, and all opinions expressed are my own.

Book 59 of the amazing in death series by the talented author JD Robb. It’s a fantastic instalment in the magnificent series. I absolutely loved reading this book. I loved the case of the killer being an artist and recreating famous paintings with his victims. I loved the the characters of eve, roarke, Peabody, mcnab,Feeney, Whitney, trueheart, Baxter, Reineke, Jenkinson, Santiago, Carmichael, Mira, summerset and Nadine. This book was well written, great paced set throughout the book. Definitely recommend reading this book. It was highly entertaining and enjoyable book to read. Jonathan Harper Ebersode comes from a wealthy family and aspires to become the next great artist however deeply angered and frustrated by the constant criticism and rejections of his works from galleries decides to take a deadlier stance on his art. He targets licensed companions to pay to let him paint them at his studio before drugging them into unconscious and manually strangling them. The first victim is Leesa whose body is left infront of the owners of a gallery that rejected him, eve Dallas and her partner Peabody are assigned to the case, she enlists help from her art collector of a husband who recognises the body pose replicating the painting of the girl with the pearl earring by johannes Vermeer. She quickly deduces cause of death as manual strangulation but will get medical examiner morris to confirm. They check out the vics apartment. Visits morris and gets confirmation on the cause of death along with the fact that the victim had been drugged first. Eve and Peabody make their way through a list of artists that have had violent outbursts but quickly eliminate suspects. Eve consults with Mira for a psych evaluation on the killer, that he’s a failed aspiring artist and is using death in hopes of getting recognition. Roarke and eve share a meal with Mavis, lenonardo,Bella, Peabody and mcnab in their finally finished home. Jonathon strikes again targeting the lc Bobby ren and recreates the blue boy by Thomas Gainsborough leaving the body outside a gallery that had rejected him. Eve starts getting witness sketches of him. They notify the victims next of kin and garvo the queen of hair and fibres points out on the rich quality of the materials used on the costumes. Eve gets a clearer pic on the killers image pale, blue eyes, late twenties early thirties massive ego and quite rude. Jonathan’s next victim is a lc chablis real name Janette whither a. Replicating vigee lebun’s self Portrait in a straw hat. Eve uses his weakness of details against him tracking down his costume materials and paintbrushes from a customised order she located his infield JH, further investigating gets his family’s name Harper and his identity twenty year old Jonathan Harper Eversole. She waits to catch him in the act because he comes from a rich family she knows she’s gonna have to work hard to keep the charges to stick. Jonathan gets another lc Aaron pine to use for its replication of dr pozzi at home by John singer Sargent. Aaron is saved and Jonathan is arrested but later released on bail thanks to his mothers connections. Eve knows his mother is planning to help him flee and had her team and Nadine come up with a plan to foil the escape which ends with both mother and son arrested. She gets a full confession out of Jonathan who admits his mother knew he was going to kill people for his art. And interviews his mother with this information knowing neither will be able to escape their charges goes home with her husband.

I'm still amazed that each Eve Dallas book remains so entertaining, original and fun!! This latest had the gang hunting down an aspiring artist turned serial killer recreating famous paintings. Everyone pitches in to take them down and the climax was utterly satisfying!! Great on audio and sure to delight old and new fans alike! Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an early audio and digital copy in exchange for my honest review!

***5 stars*** Did we need this book? But was it amazing nonetheless? Writing a good sequel to a massive hit book is very difficult, as I've come to realize over the years. But wonderful things happen sometimes and Ready Player Two definitely captures the spirit and magic of its predecessor. Cline took the same concepts from the first book and amped them up further. Everything that made the first novel great -the pop culture references, the heartfelt human experiences, the world of the OASIS- all are present in the sequel. Ready Player Two takes you on a heck of a ride. So don't let yourself be turned away by others who talked shit about this book just because some people have to find something negative in everything and be outraged about everything they read or see. I, for one, couldn’t put this book down! It was everything I didn't know I needed!

I appear to be in the minority, but I loved Ready Player Two even more than Ready Player One! The 1980s allusions were more mainstream pop culture (John Hughes, Prince), so I could relate to them more, and I liked that there were more quests for Wade and his friends to complete (7 instead of 3). Not being a gamer myself, I'd never thought of the video game/life comparison, but it definitely works on all levels. (Pun intended!) Life is like a video game...always encountering new levels...just keep playing...

I was nervous going into this book. The first one is SO good! This one... might be better! We follow our favorite characters after they have taken over the Oasis. It's not all roses. In fact it's just the opposite. But then the Oasis is hijacked, a new quest is given and all hell breaks loose. I loved every minute of it. A rare sequel that's so very worth it.

4.5 Stars for Ready Player Two: Ready Player One, Book 2 (audiobook) by Ernest Cline read by Wil Wheaton. I really liked this sequel. I’m sure it was hard to live up to the first book. This is a great world and I’m glad that the story is continuing.

My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpress.com/ “Little Fires Everywhere” is my first read by Celeste Ng, but I’m pretty sure that it won’t be my last. I could easily have read this book in just one or two sittings but life got in the way (in this case life being a glass of 7up, a knee jerk and “Nooo! Save the books!”). But once the book was dry, I picked it up again and didn’t stop until I finished the last page. Everything in Shaker Heights is planned and there are rules that residents must follow. Houses can only be painted certain colors (to ensure aesthetic harmony), garbage is never put out in front of the house, lawns must always be cut promptly, etc. The city motto says it all: “Most communities just happen; the best are planned” When Mia Warren and her fifteen year old daughter, Pearl rent a home from the Richardsons, a prominent Shaker Heights family – their lives will become intertwined in ways they never could have imagined. Mrs. Richardson liked to rent to people she felt were deserving of her help, people who may have had some tough turns in life. She felt it was her way of giving back. When she first meets Mia Warren and her daughter she thinks they are the perfect tenants. One of the Richardson boys, Moody is curious about the new tenants and heads over to the rental property. Moody and Pearl hit it off immediately. Moody who has never wanted for anything, is surprised at how this mother and daughter make their way. Mia can stretch a dollar (and leftover food) farther than anyone he’s ever seen. It’s not long before Moody brings Pearl home to meet everyone. Soon Pearl is spending much of her time at the Richardson home. At first, everything is fantastic. Mrs. Richardson even hires Mia to do some housekeeping and cooking at the Richardson home. But it won’t be long before the many differences between Mia and Mrs. Richardson cause a divide that will affect the two families in unimaginable ways. In some ways, I felt bad for Pearl as the nomadic life that her mother had them living would be hard on anyone, especially a teenage girl. However, Pearl also seemed to benefit from the way they lived. At first, Mia came across as incredibly selfish but it wasn’t long before I loved her. Her caring ways were evident and how she responded to the different crises that came up endeared her to me. I may not have agreed with all of her choices but I could certainly see how she would have made them. Right off the bat I was irked by Mrs. Richardson (the fact that she was rarely referred to by her first name was fitting). Mrs. Richardson was the type who wanted to be seen as someone who cared and helped others. However, you could tell right away that she kept track of all the good things she had done. And you never knew when Mrs. Richardson would want a repayment of her “kindness”. When she offers to buy one of Mia’s photographs and Mia doesn’t fall at her feet with gratitude... “That’s very generous of you.” Mia’s eyes slid toward the window briefly and Mrs. Richardson felt a twinge of irritation at this lukewarm response to her philanthropy. Izzy was a firecracker and I adored her impulsiveness and strong feelings about right and wrong. Even at ten years old, setting shelter cats free “They’re like prisoners on death row” , her refusal to conform was thrilling. Mrs. Pissers and the toothpick incident had me giggling. And I hurried to Google to search “This Be The Verse” by Philip Larkin. There was a lot going on in “Little Fires Everywhere” but I found it easy to keep up. I will say that it had a bit of a slow start but I feel the author was just setting the stage for all that was to come. And once I hit the halfway mark, I was so completely invested into all of their lives and HAD to know what was going to happen next. The additional story-line of little Mirabelle McCullough/May Ling Chow’s adoption was incredibly thought provoking and had me asking myself some hard questions. I honestly didn’t know which side I was on half the time. My head was spinning. “What made someone a mother? Was it biology alone, or was it love?” I thought that the development of the characters was fantastic. With so many characters and only so many pages, it takes skill to bring them all to life. And in my opinion; Celeste Ng did a phenomenal job. And with the many 90’s references such as Sir-Mix-a-lot, Smashing Pumpkins, Jerry Springer, and Monica Lewinsky - I was taken back to my own adolescence. This was an intriguing and compelling domestic drama. A story about motherhood, adolescence, race, rules, right and wrong, and so much more. Great characters and an interesting plot made “Little Fires Everywhere” a fast and fantastic read. Many thanks go to Penguin Press for providing a copy of this book for me to read in exchange for my honest review.

4.5 stars. I was hooked while listening to the audiobook and finished it in 2 days. The family dynamics, tension, and nuance is well done. The themes about parenting and motherhood - what is considered "good" parenting and who is a "good" mother - was such an interesting exploration, along with how white suburbia can be suffocating and push for conformity. But most of all, I loved the portrayal of well-intentioned yet ignorant white and upperclass people, and the gap between a privileged and white POV versus an immigrant in poverty. It’s done in such a subtle way that’s not in your face and gives readers enough room to explore and think through these issues for ourselves. The only reason why I hesitate to give this 5 stars is I don’t think much was done with Mrs. Richardson’s kids for readers to care about. I think the ending would have been more impactful if the kids had been better developed and thus have a well-rounded cast of characters.

There are some books when you finish, you just sit motionless with blank face, feeling speechless, resuming your awkward position for hours and then you turn back into your life after getting frozen by a magical dramatic literary wand’s power. That’s what happened to me. And I realized I haven’t written any word about this stunning, amazing book and now Witherspoon and Washington’s Hulu series is streaming right now and it seems like scriptwriter Liz Tigelaar caught the essence of the plot and reflected into 8 great episodes (especially episode 7 was remarkably the best and heartfelt one) And Witherspoon’s Elena is her best book character composition. I highly recommend it! (Better than Big Little Lies) So here we go: this book is character driven, slow burn drama which will help a lot turn into series to give us so much details and realistic portraits about characters, always works well for me. Small town dynamics, dysfunctional family issues, class differences, morality about a child’s own destiny, hypocrisy, lies, secrets mixing each other and slow-building tension rises at the end with powerful, thought- provoking, twisty ending leaves you speechless. Welcome to Shaker Heights! Richardson household is burning into fire and their daughter Izzy is nowhere to be seen. She might be responsible of this chaos. Then we slowly going back and forth between the snippets of Richardson family’s relationship with poor artist Mia and her daughter Pearl who became their tenants and afterwards. And behind their story, there is custody war over a Chinese baby’s adoption by Richardson family’s close friends. Should baby be adopted by people who are so rich and ready to present her every opportunity she’s dreamed of or should her biological mother take the custody even though they may suffer from poorness and financial struggles? Unhealthy, ballistic relationship with Izzy and her mother and striking differences between Mia and Elena and too many lies and secrets’ revelations change everything in their lives. When the fire starts to destroy everything they had in their lives, they need to start from scratch and learn from their mistakes. It’s powerful, emotional, questioning, unique story. I know it’s so challenging to pick a side because nobody is blameless and innocent. I hope we see a good adaption without losing the essence of the story and its well-crafted characterization. blog instagram facebook twitter

5 Amazing Bright Shiny Stars! I would give it 100 if Goodreads would let me. Little Fires Everywhere is a novel that far surpasses any other that I have ever read. I don't know how Celeste Ng did it. It is a brilliantly written novel with intricate, rich and wholly vivid characters whose lives are so fully intertwined you can't help but read on in bewildered awe of how Celeste Ng created these characters. My nerve endings were fully engaged on high alert from the first sentence. Shaker Heights, Ohio is an affluent town with rules and regulations like no other. Mrs. Richardson lives by them, having been raised by them and she has raised her four children (Lexie, Trip, Moody and Izzy) to abide by them as well. She rents a little apartment in Shaker Heights to Mia Warren and her daughter Pearl, who are less fortunate. Mia is a free spirited artist, who lives life to the fullest. These women have one thing in common and one thing only: they love their children immensely and they accept each other's as their own. Mia (or rather Ms. Ng) describes it beautifully: "To a parent, your child wasn't just a person, your child was a place, a kind of Narnia, a vast eternal place where the present you were living and the past you remembered and the future you longed for all existed at once. You could see it every time you looked at her; layered in her face was the baby she'd been and the child she'd become and the adult she would grow up to be and you saw them all simultaneously, like a 3-D image. It made your head spin. It was like a place you could take refuge, if you knew how to get in. And each time you left it, each time your child passed out of your sight, you feared you might never be able to return to that place again." Neither live perfect lives, sometimes in fact they make grave mistakes, yet their love for their children never falters. These mothers relationships with each other, their family and everyone in town is threatened when a custody battle ensues between a friend of the Richardsons, Mrs. and Mr. McCullough, who are in the middle of adopting a Chinese American baby and a friend of Mia's, Bebe, who is the birth mother. This battle wrecks havoc on the town and causes incredible strife between the families. This novel is captivating and crazy compelling. These characters burn an indelible image onto your soul. The character of Izzy, Mrs. Richardson's daughter had me from the beginning (kind of like Hannah from Ms. Ng's Everything I Never Told You - which I also loved). Izzy has a strength and over came odds that most children in her position wouldn't. Her triumphs made my heart soar. Somehow Ms. Ng made me change my mind about some of the characters throughout the course of this novel. In the beginning, I felt one way about two of the characters and then by the end, I did a complete switcheroo, and my feelings about them were FIERCE. Little Fires everywhere brought forth laughter and lots of tears. It is that kind of novel. I can't recommend it highly enough. It is captivating, compelling and full of heart and soul. Celeste Ng's ability to intertwine the characters and storylines was wondrous, brilliant and beautiful. I loved every second of this book. It has now topped my list as my FAVORITE BOOK of ALL TIME. Little Fires Everywhere was a Traveling Sister Group Read and included Brenda, Norma, Jennifer, Holly, Melissa & Kendall. We all had a fabulous time reading this one together - the group discussions for this incredible read were amazing and I look forward to our next read together. For the full Traveling Sisters Group Review, please see Norma and Brenda's Blog: https://www.twogirlslostinacouleeread... Thank you to Edelweiss, Penguin Press and Celeste Ng for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an honest review. Published on Goodreads, Edelweiss and Amazon on 9.17.17.

Soooo, Reese Witherspoon just added this to her book club thing? Which is so biased because SHE'S THE LEAD OF THE SHOW! *************** With Reese Witherspoon!!!!! *************** YOU GUYS!! THEY'RE MAKING THIS A TV SHOW! FSHFGFKFJ!!! *************** There is really no category to fit this book into. It's fiction but what kind? Contemporary? Kind of. Thriller? A bit. But not really. It's like the way a frosted sunrise (basically ice cream and orange juice blended to perfection.) tastes both sour and sweet all at the same time. This book could never be a movie. I'm not saying that negatively. No, I would absolutely love to see this in the big screen but it's just written in such an amazing and unique way that only a book can portray. This book is told in third person omniscient. This basically means it's told in he/she/they but from the POV of everyone. Kind of. It's almost like inside out where one moment were in one characters head and then we switch to another. For instance, there is a major problem in the plot and the reader is completely for one side and then BOOM! POV switch and suddenly your on the other side. The whole book pushes and pulls the reader back and forth. And that's what I loved about it. It was so unique so moving and so full of joy and sorrow. Of course, it's this aspect that would be nearly impossible to make into a movie. Not that it can't be done. It would just be hard but so would love to see someone try. Bottom Line: 5 "Wow that was better than We Were Liars" Stars Age Recommendation: 14+ (Sex, Kissing, Abortion, Violence, Heavy Themes) For fans of: We Were LiarsorBig Little Lies | Goodreads | Blog | Pinterest | LinkedIn | YouTube | Instagram

absolutely LOVED this!

5 complicated stars!🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 I have read SO many wonderful books lately, I keep thinking I can’t rate all these books 5 stars... but then I think how can I not? They all definitely deserve it! SO here I go again with another gushing review!(Currently I’m reading a book I’m not all that crazy about, so I promise a slightly negative review to come😉) What makes you a mother biology or love? This book was about the bonds between mothers and their children; The relationship between mothers and daughters in particular.... I have a daughter and of course I am a daughter, so I do realize how complicated this relationship can be, even in a somewhat stable environment.... The mothers in this book were all very different from one another, but the thing they had in common is that they all truly love their children.... even if they didn’t always do a good job of showing it.... I believe all these women were so well developed as characters, and even if you didn’t agree with their actions you could understand their motivation.... this book really touched on quite a few issues, and I don’t want to mention them in this review, because I don’t want to ruin the journey for you, but it sure did make me think.... Think what would I do in that same situation? It’s hard to say, of course I’d like to think I’d always do the right thing, but then that begs the question what is the right thing? Sometimes I’m not sure if it is as clear cut as that..... The only part of this book that I had an opinion on(OK not the only thing I had an opinion on, but the only thing I’m going to share in this review), because it was very personal for me was the court case.... as I have mentioned previously I am the only biological child in a family of adoptive brother’s (I never got a sister!) And all my brothers are of a different race/ethnicity from me.... I don’t believe I could have loved my brothers anymore had they been biologically related to me, and I don’t believe they ever felt robbed of their culture.... so do I think a white family can raise a Chinese girl? Absolutely! But this is because of personal experience, I grew up in a house with cross-cultural adoption and it was a positive experience.... do I think a biological mother should be given a second chance after abandoning her baby? That I’m not sure about....*** steps off soapbox *** Looking back on this book I think I like it even more.... every character in this book was so well developed, by the end you felt as though you knew these people.... I also think the story was so well plotted how everything unfolded was perfect.... and even though the ending was quite heartbreaking, it just made the book that much better... Definitely strongly recommend! And I hope you enjoy the journey!💕 PS: I‘d love for Mia to take a photo that represented me, wonder what would be on it, a book?

4.5 stars A brilliant mixture of Jodi Picoult's best family dramas and a more introspective version of Liane Moriarty's Big Little Lies , Celeste Ng's Little Fires Everywhere cements her place as one of the best novelists of this generation. The novel takes place in Shaker Heights, a quiet, progressive suburb of Cleveland where everyone plays by the rules. Elena Richardson exemplifies this static dynamic: she grew up in Shaker Heights just like several generations of her family before her, attended a college nearby, and settled down with her lawyer husband and four children in a comfortable, placid picture of domesticity. Mrs. Richardson's perspective on life gets shaken when Mia Warren, a mysterious artist and single mother, and Pearl, Mia's precocious and kind daughter, rent a house from the Richardson family. Though Mia and Pearl Warren present themselves as an exciting charity case for Mrs. Richardson at first, she grows suspicious of the pair when a custody battle including a Chinese American baby erupts across Shaker Heights. Now on opposite sides with her tenant, Elena does everything in her power to plunge into Mia's past, though what she discovers may unravel all the threads of the careful planning that tied her and her family's idyllic life together. From its gorgeous title and cover to its exquisitely-written last page, Little Fires Everywhere slayed me left and right. Reading Celeste Ng's portrayal of the Shaker Heights community felt like breathing in an actual town and its people, replete with the embedded friendliness and ever-present gossip of suburban Ohio. Ng pulls apart this tight-knit sector of American society to investigate intense questions surrounding privilege, motherhood, and identity. Though these themes could have come across as overbearing in the hands of a less-skilled writer, Ng's prose flowed with such fierce and understated intelligence that I felt immersed in her world from the very first page. This woman knows how to write really darn well, as the story of Little Fires Everywhere hooked me in like a thriller and also made me think, deeply and empathetically, like any of the most amazing character-driven novels would. Celeste Ng's most impressive feat with this book: crafting characters and relationships with the depth and nuance that rivals those of her stellar first novel, Everything I Never Told You . Though Elena, Mia, and Izzy receive the most development in Little Fires Everywhere, Ng managed to make me care about all of her characters in one way or another. I suspect that her impressive command of language contributes to her character-building, as she can go from describing the wonder and naivete that encompasses meeting a new friend in childhood to the sharp fear and ferocity that pervades a mother with an ill daughter in the span of a few pages. Ng has a remarkable gift for capturing her characters' humanities, their most tender vulnerabilities and dangerous strengths. For example, though I abhor violence and cannot even watch violent movies, I really wanted to slap Mrs. Richardson across the face multiple times for her narrow-minded, privileged-to-a-fault attitude. But Ng showcases Elena's upbringing in a way that reminded me that we all have a little bit of Elena Richardson in all of us, if we give into our fears instead of acting based on our values. Overall, a maddening, compelling, and gorgeously-written novel that interrogates ideas of privilege, motherhood, and social change. I cannot wait for Little Fires Everywhere to come out in 2017 so that many other readers can also get slain by Celeste Ng's talent (and so we can all fanboy/fangirl Izzy together, because honestly, what a queen). Thank you to Penguin for sending me an arc of this book and to Ms. Ng for inspiring fans like me to start our own little fires everywhere. I cannot wait to read Ng's next novel and I am excited to see this one thrive in just a few months.

All I can say is...WOW. I really need to read more books like this.

“...her mother was there, which meant that everything was all right. ” Reread October 2019: Still as powerful as the first read. Having forgotten the many threads that web through this story only to connect pages later, I was just as engrossed as the first time. Question such as what made the house burn down, and what happens to Bebe still persisted. Mia is forever an enigma I want to know more about. Her reasoning behind her decision to not give away her child. It’s her parents that were disappointed in her even thinking of giving it away, and so she disconnects from them. But then she agrees with them. So why not talk to them? Why did she agree with them, but still keep her distance? And Bebe of course. I feel so much for her. Especially when the court was underway and hearing her life being put under a microscope it was scrutinising. Her quote on rent, groceries or electricity hit hard: .“what a thing, to choose between hunger and darkness.” I would love to read more about this community in a sequel. Everyone in Shaker Heights was talking about it that summer: how Isabelle, the last of the Richardson children, had finally gone around the bend and burned the house down. WHY DID I WAIT SO LONG TO READ THIS BOOK??? Fun story: I finally caved into the hype for Little Fires Everywhere when my fries nearly burned down the oven this past Tuesday. I was, needless to say, scared shitless when I saw smoke covering the kitchen... “Most of the smoke had gone, but a mugginess still hung everywhere, like the air in the bathroom after a long, hot shower.” But, the day after, when I randomly decided to read the first chapter of this book, which has its premise set around a fire, I was swept into the world of these lively characters in Shaker Heights. (I'm still mad at myself for having to go through the above, in order for me to get fully into the storyline.) Little Fires Everywhere explores the weight of secrets, the nature of art and identity, and the ferocious pull of motherhood – and the danger of believing that following the rules can avert disaster. Celeste Ng breathes such livelihood into each and every one of her characters that I can clearly imagine them in my head, so much so that I have to remind myself that they only exist in this fictional piece of work. And it works so well because the author pays close attention to the tiniest of details that I wouldn't have thought to notice at first, but then it's those features that make the story feel that more tangible. Take for example this introducing passage to the last (and the wildest) of the Richardson children: “Izzy, at ten, had been apprehended sneaking into the Humane Society in an attempt to free all the stray cats. “They’re like prisoners on death row,” she’d said. At eleven, her mother—convinced that Izzy was overly clumsy—had enrolled her in dance classes to improve her coordination. Her father insisted she try it for one term before she could quit. Every class, Izzy sat down on the floor and refused to move. For the recital—with the aid of a mirror and a Sharpie—Izzy had written NOT YOUR PUPPET across her forehead and cheeks just before taking the stage, where she stood stock-still while the others, disconcerted, danced around her.” I... love her. I haven't fallen under the spell of a family so entirely since I read Young Jane Young by Gabrielle Zevin. Speaking of, if you liked the characterization in YJY, you'll most likely enjoy this worthwhile read just as much. Also, A Little Life by Hanya Yanagihara is a prime example of exploring the dynamics of main and side characters and the threads connecting them all, just as this novel does so brilliantly. Celeste Ng breathes so much humanity into her characters that the everyday becomes compelling. And with each coming chapter, I became that more bewitched with these strangely compelling families. “The truth was that she wanted to study the Richardsons both when they were there and when they weren’t. Every day, it seemed, Pearl absorbed something new from the Richardson family: a turn of phrase (“I was literally dying”), a gesture (a flick of the hair, an eye roll). She was a teen, Mia told herself over and over; she was trying on new skins, like all teenagers did, but privately she stayed wary of the changes she saw.” I love how the author can capture such specific and private moments with a particular turn of phrase. These careful observations of her characters are enthralling. There's so much I want to discuss, everything from the enigmatic Mia Warren, “who seemed to make her own rules with no apologies”, to the complex and deeply intricate adoption case surrounding Mirabelle McCullough (“or, depending which side you were on, May Ling Chow”). I'll just say on the latter that the heated debate that lasted for months in their community, continued on in my head (and out loud to anyone who was willing to listen) without pause. “It came, over and over, down to this: What made someone a mother? Was it biology alone, or was it love?” The case really got my blood boiling and my head spinning, and I was so invested in the outcome of the court, that their final decision would have quite the impact on whether this introspective book was a 5 star read* or lower for me. And I see that as an immense success in my eyes because it's rare that I get this overly invested and absorbed in a storyline. The author knows how to spin a web, and I would encourage you to experience it firsthand from the book. “Something about the case had lit a spark in her, though she could not yet put her finger on it, and would not be able to articulate it for a long while.” I still can't fully wrap my head around all the intricate details Celeste Ng planted along the way. I truly applaud her for creating such distinct voices in each character. She played to her strength by giving the time and place to expand a character's arc to fit into the overarching theme. And thanks to their extensive background presented without any bias, even those I came to disagree with, I still understood their point of view, their raison d'être, and their vehement fight to get people on their side. “Here, she found, everything had nuance; everything had an unrevealed side or unexplored depths. Everything was worth looking at more closely.” This novel is a prime example of succeeding at creating plot and tone through its multifaceted characterization. Which is why I’m also impressed that even though the main storyline didn’t appear until halfway through the book, the author kept up our interest with expertise on all accounts. It was a pure pleasure, watching her click everything into place. All I wanted was to devour this oddly endearing book in all its glory, and in the same beat cherish it so it would last me forever. Plus, I can't stop thinking about how consumingly evocative and vivid the writing style is. The specificity behind each sentence was very well woven together both by the storyline and the character development. It was bold, it had a purpose, and it didn't feel aimless. Like this passage that paints a clear of picture how close the siblings are: “You’d think she was the mother,” their mother had said once, half in tones of complaint, half in admiration. They had their own words for things, a jargon of obscure origin: for reasons even they had forgotten, they referred to butter as cheese; they called the grackles that perched in the treetops icklebirds. It was a circle they drew around the two of them like a canopy. “Don’t tell anyone from France,” Mia would begin, before whispering a secret, and Warren’s reply was always, “Wild giraffes couldn’t drag it out of me.” I wish I could explain in words how much I love Celeste Ng's skill for capturing something so specific and addictively relatable. And another utterly enchanted passage on mother/daughter bonds that's worth the lenghty read: “It had been a long time since her daughter had let her be so close. Parents, she thought, learned to survive touching their children less and less. As a baby Pearl had clung to her; she’d worn Pearl in a sling because whenever she’d set her down, Pearl would cry. There’d scarcely been a moment in the day when they had not been pressed together. As she got older, Pearl would still cling to her mother’s leg, then her waist, then her hand, as if there were something in her mother she needed to absorb through the skin. Even when she had her own bed, she would often crawl into Mia’s in the middle of the night and burrow under the old patchwork quilt, and in the morning they would wake up tangled, Mia’s arm pinned beneath Pearl’s head, or Pearl’s legs thrown across Mia’s belly. Now, as a teenager, Pearl’s caresses had become rare—a peck on the cheek, a one-armed, half-hearted hug—and all the more precious because of that. It was the way of things, Mia thought to herself, but how hard it was. The occasional embrace, a head leaned for just a moment on your shoulder, when what you really wanted more than anything was to press them to you and hold them so tight you fused together and could never be taken apart. It was like training yourself to live on the smell of an apple alone, when what you really wanted was to devour it, to sink your teeth into it and consume it, seeds, core, and all.” I feel the truth of these words echoing inside me. And it goes to show how parts of Little Fires Everywhere made me emotional to the point of crying and they weren't even sad, just so absolutely stunning. It's been so long since a book evoked such a wide range of reactions out of me. But this multigenerational tale of family bonds, youthful romance, generational conflicts and hidden secrets had me compulsively turning page after page. I haven't felt this strongly about a book in nearly half a year (back when I read The Beauty Queen of Jerusalem by Sarit Yishai-Levi). This thought-provoking read in all its messy complexity will stay with me for a long time to come. And in the meantime, I'll be devouring all the other books the author has released so far. *Oh, who am I kidding? This book deserves all the stars in the sky. Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate. If you're interested in buying Little Fires Everywhere, just click on the image below to go through my link. I'll make a small commission! Visit bookspoils.com for more book discussions and reviews.

This book was one of the most powerful, intense and beautifully written novels that I have ever read - with the absolute best character development! This was a Traveling Sisters group read that we all absolutely gushed over and didn't want it to end! Thank you so much to Edelweiss, Celeste Ng, and Penguin Press for the opportunity to read an advanced copy of this book in exchange for a review.

”In Shaker Heights there was a plan for everything. When the city had been laid out in 1912 [it was] one of the first planned communities in the nation . . . in fact, [Cleveland’s] motto was ‘Most communities just happen; the best are planned’: the underlying philosophy being that everything could – and should – be planned out, and that by doing so you could avoid the unseemly, the unpleasant, and the disastrous.” Bill and Elena Richardson made plans for their future almost as soon as they met in college. Good jobs, a house, children, and a successful, busy, and happy life. Their children arrived one year after the other: Lexie, Trip, Moody, and Izzy. They have a large home in a development called Shaker Heights on the outskirts of Cleveland, Ohio. Elena’s family moved there almost at the inception of the development. She had also inherited a duplex in the development that she rented out to people she felt were deserving of a break and hand-picked her tenants with care. When Mia Warren and her daughter Pearl arrive to rent the upper floor of the duplex, Elena Richardson is sure they will be perfect: a struggling artist who is a single mother with a bright teenage daughter the same age as her (Mrs. Richardson’s) son Moody. This novel is a story with multiple characters – individuals that we come to know intimately. I was drawn in by the first paragraph and this story kept me in thrall the entire time. As deeply as we come to know and care about these characters, Ms Ng cleverly refers to some of them by their last names, prefixed by Mr. and/or Mrs. The effect of this was of always keeping them at a slight distance even while we become totally wrapped up in their lives - both inner and outer. ”To a parent, your child wasn’t just a person: your child was a place, a kind of Narnia, a vast eternal place where the present you were living and the past you remembered and the future you longed for all existed at once.” With the five main teenagers in this story, I felt the resistance I always feel. More times than I can count I have been disappointed reading about teenagers. They so often come across extremely angst-ridden and unbearably juvenile without much cohesion in their thoughts and feelings, let alone their growth and how they got there. In this story, their lives are drawn with such profundity and truth that I could relate to them from my own teenage years. Finally. An author who actually understands something of the hidden and overtly expressed inner worlds of teenagers and the complexity of their choices and decisions. There are conflicts that occur in the adult world, too, and again – I felt tossed like a plastic duck in a toddler’s swimming pool. My support and heart went out to first one side then another side in the conflicts. I felt deep empathy for each and every character in this book and felt torn apart intellectually and emotionally by their struggles. This novel is one of the most beautifully crafted that I have ever read. All the individual pieces that make up the whole are exquisitely fashioned and entirely engaging. There was not one moment that I wasn’t fully focused on the stories within the stories within this book. Like the box of chocolates with the cover where a woman is holding a box of chocolates with a cover of a woman holding a box of chocolates with a cover of a woman holding a box of chocolates . . . this novel took me deeply into the lives of the people in it and allowed me to experience with each one of them what it is like to be them. If, like me, you have not read this book before, I can only urge you to do so. This is one of those rare and precious books that teach us valuable and important lessons even though we may not be fully aware of it until after the last page is closed.

"Sometimes you need to scorch everything to the ground and start over. After the burning the soil is richer, and new things can grow. People are like that, too. They start over. They find a way." Oh my God! This was one of those books I kept pointing it off and pointing it off due to its hype, but it did not disappoint at all.

First of all, I have to say- reading this with friends made the experience over-the-top incredible. There were so many topics to think about, and we had a wonderful discussion. I haven't read Ng's first book yet, but I will be. Stat. Because this is exactly the kind of writing that makes me swoon. It made me feel, deeply. It made me think, outside the ordinary. I was completely enveloped in Shaker Heights in the 90s and this story. Shaker Heights added an intriguing sense of place. I imagined this perfectly arranged planned community with perfect families living inside perfectly uniform homes. But once the story was moving along, I quickly learned there was nothing perfect within these pages. And that was the draw for me. The biggest take-home message. That all the characters, no matter their visible personas, underneath they were each perfectly imperfect, complex people making imperfect choices and leading imperfect lives, while doing the best they could with what they had at the time. There were characters I loved, and then my feelings would shift. One of the things that struck everyone in our group was how Ng could have us loving a character one minute, only to be frustrated the next. Again, that complexity comes into play; that humanity and imperfection. This book landed on my favorites shelf. Let the book hangover commence!

|| 4.5 stars || Oh my god, this was so incredibly good! This book had me completely gripped from beginning to end. The writing was so engaging in a succinct yet powerful way, and the characters were woven so perfectly into the story, I simply could not stop reading for even a second! The pacing was also done in the exact right way. The book never gave too many details that would make the story start to feel like it dragged, but instead it always managed to say exactly what needed to be said for the reader to understand what was going on, what it meant, and how it must feel for everyone involved. Overall, it was such strong writing and I instantly fell in love with it. I am struggling to provide a summary of this book considering it tells so many little stories of many different characters. I hardly think it’s possible to choose one of these stories and point towards it saying: “This. This is what the book is about.” Moreover, so many of these stories were more subtle, never fully fleshed out or even acknowledged, that it would be very hard to describe them in my own words. So really, if I were to attempt a summary, I honestly wouldn’t know where to look or where to begin, and the end-result would be incomplete and wrong anyway. That said, I do want to point out that this book genuinely made me feel so many emotions! I had very strong opinions on all of the characters, of all the things that happened in the past, present and future, but also of the social issues that were raised. For example, I genuinely felt so much pain for the McCulloughs; I think what happened to them embodies the worst fears of any parent thinking about adopting or of those who have already adopted a child. To live with the fear that your child can be taken away like that… Just because someone thinks they have a claim on a child they abandoned due to some irrelevant blood-connection. It’s devastating and terrible and unjust. A parent is someone who takes care of their child, who nurses them, who loves them, who provides for them, who will never ever think of leaving them. Being a mother is more than giving birth to someone. It came, over and over, down to this: What made someone a mother? Was it biology alone, or was it love? Although I had intense feelings about them all, I think there was really only one character I truly felt an immense dislike towards, and I am willing to bet not many readers will think the same on this as me: The person I had a distinct distaste towards was Mia. Her ungrateful, fanciful and irresponsible attitude bothered me, but it was mostly her hypocrisy that made my skin crawl. First of all, I genuinely believe Mia was a bad mother. I don’t care how she tried to justify it, whether it was due to her “artistic spirit” or her young age, but she never ever did what was best for her daughter in those early years. She never chose to take care of her daughter properly, and instead continued to choose to live the life of a starving artist, as if she didn’t have a whole child depending on her! She dragged that child from place to place, never staying somewhere for more than a few months, never letting her daughter set up roots anywhere, forcing her to be forever lonely and homeless. And really, this would be enough reason for me to dislike Mia, but it was her superior attitude, despite her own many flaws, that distinctly bothered me. She acted like she was a great mother, a great person, this pinnacle of wisdom and goodness, when she was anything but. She was aimless, she was irresponsible, she was selfish, but, like I said earlier, she was also insanely hypocritical. She had a very strong opinion on the adoption case of the McCulloughs (her own actions even being the sole cause for why Linda and Mark now had to fight to keep their adopted child), and she argued this by saying that a child should be raised by her “real” mother and that the “real” mother deserved to raise her child, but she never, not even once, mentioned (to herself or anyone else) the very real fact that she stole her own child away from her father. Did she simply think this sentiment does not apply to fathers? Is she truly that unfair and cruel? Because it’s important to note that her daughter’s father desperately wanted to raise this child, but Mia just took her from him; she stole his child. And she never thought she did a single thing wrong. The hypocrisy! It baffled me. And yet here was Mia, causing poor Linda such trauma, as if she hadn’t been through enough, as if Mia were any kind of example of how to mother. Dragging her fatherless child from place to place, scraping by on menial jobs, justifying it by insisting to herself — by insisting to everyone — she was making Art. Probing other people’s business with her grimy hands. Stirring up trouble. Heedlessly throwing sparks. Mrs. Richardson seethed, and deep inside her, the hot speck of fury that had been carefully banked within her burst into flame. Mia did whatever she wanted, Mrs. Richardson thought, and what would result? Heartbreak for her oldest friend. Chaos for everyone. You can’t just do what you want, she thought. Why should Mia get to, when no one else did? Of course, I also had very strong opinions on all of the other characters and plot points; some positive, some not, and some… unsure, but I won’t bore anyone with going into details about all that. It doesn’t really matter what my own specific opinions were anyway, the only thing that really matters is that this is the type of book that invokes those strong emotions about its characters and its plots. I felt everything while reading this: indignation, sympathy, suspense, anxiousness, endearment, unsurety, pity, all of it… And isn’t that the best kind of book? A book that makes you feel intensely and makes you form strong opinions about its content? For me it is. And that’s why I loved this!

Celeste Ng has tapped into the subconscious of modern suburban American life like few others in recent fiction. LITTLE FIRES EVERYWHERE is clearly a miniseries waiting to happen, and that's a good thing. With the news that Reese Witherspoon has bought the rights, we'll hopefully get an intriguing follow-up to the engrossing BIG LITTLE LIES. The book so perfectly captures the dynamic between two very different classes in our country: the elite one percenters with their opulent homes, high-level careers, and self-perceived elevated moral grounding, and freewheeling, skin-of-their-teeth artists rarely comfortable in one place or one frame of mind. The real crux of the story here lies in the heated battle over a Chinese infant's adoption, calling into question the complicated issues of motherhood, cultural appropriation, and society's differing views on these matters. All the meanwhile, secrets fester and begin to tear this pristine slice of ideal Americana apart. Ng delicately constructs well-off Shaker Heights, building a neighborhood that we have all known in our lives and mostly seen through wrought iron gates, but in her novel we get to enter those massive double entryway doors, rummaging through their trash and sitting down for a tense family dinner all in the same day. The result is nothing short of a mirror reflected upon ourselves, top-to-bottom, with no stone left unturned. A truly absorbing book.

This book deals with issues that are becoming more relevant by the hour, but it deals with those issues in a light-handed way. There were plenty of interesting family dynamics, which was what I was looking for. For me, the best parts were the sections that focused on Mia and her daughter Pearl. In some books, character development and world building can be tedious, but in this book, I found those early parts to be fascinating. Particularly Mia's artistic methodology. Generally, this was a quick and pleasant read. For me, most of the early chapters rated a four. At least one of the early chapters rated a five. Others rated either a strong or wobbly four. Chapter 14 rated a strong five. Overall, I'd rate this book somewhere between a solid four and a wobbly five. (Should I round up or down? I flipped a coin to decide.) Now I'm going to check out the TV show.

English – Español At first I thought I will not like the book because it is very slow, but as it progresses I was hook up and I loved it. If you have not yet read the book you will say that everything started a Saturday in may at noon with the Richardson house turned on fire, but is actually as it ends the history. The events that brought the consequence of the fire begin around a year ago. The Richardsons live in Shaker Heights, an idyllic community where everything is planned, including the color of the painting of the houses and is very safe. They rent a small house to Mia and her daughter Pearl. Mia is a poor artist travelling together with his daughter Pearl town to town in search of inspiration for her works. She is a single mother and a person who does not live by the standards of Shaker Heights, because usually she goes against the rules. This time she promised her daughter, who is a teenager, they will remain indefinitely so that she can have a normal life and have friends. Pearl begins a friendship with the four children of the Richardsons, especially with Moody, spending most of the time at their house, where from her point of view everything is better, not only because it actually is, but also because everything is new for her. Mrs Richardson, Elena, knowing the economic situation of Mia, decides to offer her to work as a service in their home, and she accepts. This gives a rapprochement between Mia and the younger Richardson, Izzy. At the same time the best friend of Elena is trying to, along with their spouse, adopt a Chinese baby girl. The McCullough have many years trying to have children and at not succeed decided to adopt. The opportunity finally presents with the girl May Ling Chow, for them Mirabelle. But not everything is so easy, Bebe, the girl's mother, wants her back and takes the McCullough to trial. The McCullough can give everything to this girl because they have money, but will that be enough to be granted full custody? The issue is the talk of Shaker Heights and opinions are divided. In my opinion are these two events, the trial for the Chinese girl and friendship between Mia and Izzy, the most important and those who carry everything to the outcome of the fire. While the story progresses slowly, the power is in the characters. Everyone feels very real. Each person here is important and has its history and its share of responsibility for the outcome. As always, what I didn't like was how some things were pending and other left deliberately so that we use our imagination. --- Al principio pensé que no me gustaría el libro porque es bien lento, pero a medida que avanza me fui enganchando y me encantó. Si aún no has leído el libro dirás que todo inicia un sábado de mayo al medio día con la casa de los Richardson prendida en fuego, pero en realidad es como termina toda la historia. Los acontecimientos que trajeron como consecuencia dicho fuego comienzan alrededor de un año atrás. Los Richardson viven en Shaker Heights, una comunidad idílica en donde todo está planificado, inclusive el color de la pintura de las casas y es muy seguro. Ellos le rentan una pequeña casa a Mia y su hija Pearl. Mia es una artista pobre que junto con su hija Pearl viaja de pueblo en pueblo en busca de inspiración para sus obras. Es una madre soltera y una persona que no cuadra con los estándares de Shaker Heights, porque por lo regular va contra las reglas. En esta oportunidad Mia le promete a su hija, quien es una adolescente, que se quedarán indefinidamente para que ella pueda hacer una vida normal y tener amigos. Pearl inicia una amistad con los cuatro hijos de los Richardson, en especial con Moody, pasando la mayor parte del tiempo en su casa, en donde desde su punto de vista es mejor, no solo porque en realidad lo es, sino también por todo lo nuevo que representa para ella. La señora Richardson, Elena, conociendo la situación económica de Mia, decide ofrecerle trabajo como servicio en su casa y ella acepta. Esto da inicio a un acercamiento entre Mia y la pequeña de la casa, Izzy. Al mismo tiempo la mejor amiga de Elena está tratando junto a su esposo de adoptar una niña china. Los McCullough tienen muchos años tratando de tener hijos y al no lograrlo se decidieron a adoptar. La oportunidad al fin se le presenta con la niña May Ling Chow, para ellos Mirabelle. Pero no todo es tan fácil, ya que Bebe, la madre de la niña, la quiere de vuelta y lleva a los McCullough a juicio. Los McCullough le pueden dar todo a esta niña porque tienen dinero, pero será eso suficiente para que le otorgen la custodia total? El tema es la comidilla de Shaker Heights y las opiniones están divididas. A mi entender son estos dos acontecimientos, el juicio por la niña china y la amistad entre Mia e Izzy, los más importantes y los que llevan todo al desenlace del fuego. A pesar de que la historia progresa lento, en donde está su fuerte es en los personajes. Todos se sienten muy reales. Cada persona aquí es importante y se cuenta su historia y su parte de responsabilidad en el desenlace. Como siempre, lo que no me gustó fue como algunas cosas quedaron pendientes y otras dejadas deliberadamente para que usemos nuestra imaginación.

oh my G O D, y’all. masterful storytelling. heart-pounding.

First of all, there needs to be a rating higher than five stars because this one definitely gets ten! It is a powerfully written story that is impeccably researched that is as mesmerizing as it is scary. It could give me nightmares but I must say that it is definitely memorable. The scenario of a huge volcanic eruption in Hawaii along with a secret that the army has hidden there is the stuff of horror films that kept me on the edge of my seat and reading until my eyes were too tired to read more. The characters are likable and relatable, except for a few who were downright nasty and narcissistic but they did add to the storyline. The plot’s pace was as fast as the lava flowing down the sides of the mountain and as breathtaking as a runaway train headed for your house. I gasped with dismay, cried with sadness and chuckled with the humor that was sparse but still present. The style of James Patterson is evident as is the research of Michael Crichton. I enjoyed every minute I spent with this book, envisioning a disaster movie playing in my head as I read. What a thrill ride this book is! I was sad to see it end but content with the conclusion, even though there were a lot of sad things that happened. This book is so realistic that the rumble of thunder had me jump in my seat, thinking that a volcano must be erupting, even though we don’t have one anywhere near us. I loved the book, the story and the details that captivated and fascinated me. Fans of Crichton need to get this book immediately and see the master come to life again under the talented hand of James Patterson! Disclaimer Disclosure of Material Connection: I received a complimentary copy of this book from Hachette Book Group. I was not required to write a positive review, and all opinions expressed are my own. I am disclosing this in accordance with the Federal Trade Commission’s 16th CFR, Part 255, “Guidelines Concerning the Use of Testimonials and Endorsements in Advertising.”

5 Stars for Eruption (audiobook) by Michael Crichton and James Patterson read by Scott Brick. I really chose this one because of the two writers, I know that James Patterson writes with other writers but I was surprised that Michael Crichton would have worked with another writer. But I really didn’t give it any more thought than that. But then after the audiobook was finished, Michael Crichton’s widow talks about having this manuscript partially written with a tremendous amount of research on volcanoes. And she held onto it for years until she met the right author to finish the novel, then she met James Patterson. I guess that makes a little more sense than the two of them collaborating together. I’m glad that Patterson was able to finish all of Crichton’s hard work. It’s a really on the edge of your seat kind of story with every living thing on the planet at stake. The characters give everything to help save the planet and Mother Nature does her part too.

Once again, a Crichton book has erupted through the rest of the tired tomes on the bestseller list. This page turner has the science to intrigue the reader, the storyline to captivate us, and the adventure to assure that it will be a blockbuster movie. Thank you Mr. Patterson for giving Crichton fans one last treasure.

WOW! I can breathe again. Combining the late Michael Crichton and suspense writer extraordinaire James Patterson is like falling from a plane not quite sure that your parachute will open! John MacGregor, better known as Mac, is a vulcanologist on the Big Island where there's always a little concern that the next eruption will be the BIG ONE. The data that he and his team have been gathering leads him to believe that the eruption just a few days from now will certainly be bigger than the last one. Then the army whisks him away and shows him that the Big One could be deadly for the whole world because someone in the army decades ago decided to store deadly radioactive remains that included a deadly fast-acting herbicide in a tunnel between two volcanoes. (Is there really intelligent life in D.C.? Even in fiction?) If the herbicide gets into the air currents shot into the atmosphere by the volcano, the whole earth will be stripped of plant life, leading to the destruction of all life. What the army has learned relatively recently is that the herbicide also kills people directly, cooking them from the inside out. The canisters have become very fragile with cracks in them so they cannot be moved. especially not in four days' time. Mac, his team, and Joint Chief Rivers scramble to find a solution to direct the lava away from the tunnel on one side and cities and villages on the other without creating a panic while also dealing with a glory-seeking billionaire, a wealthy volcano chaser and his wife, a botanist who saw the result of the herbicide on a small scale years before, a daredevil pilot, locals who fear the desecration of their ancestors' graves and, of course, the New York Times. This must be near the top of my favorite Crichton books. The authors have a unique way of dealing with a love triangle, although I liked the scene in another book where an obnoxious, self-important actor who played the president on TV was eaten by cannibals better. The characters are well-drawn with some of them being decidedly unlikeable, others being likeable and heroic, and still others being tragic victims of nature gone wild. Neither the vulcanologists, the general, nor I saw the solution coming. Those who enjoy thrillers will enjoy this. This is a clean book except for some bad language and some wishful thinking.

Wow and I mean wow. I wasn't sure how much I would love this one or not. This one took me by surprise. It wasn't the murder and mystery type I'm use to reading from my fave James Patterson. This one is definitely different then most of his adult books. We have a volcano that is going to erupt in only so many days. But what Mac and the rest if the army and such tell the residents and tourists is another story. Because not only does Mac and his team have to worry about how to stop this or divert it. They have to worry what is down in the ice tube. Which we learn early on is something that destroys. But by how much? How far are you willing to go to keep secrets and save Hawaii and possibly the world? The big one really is the biggest one in this story. We are racing through time to solve all the problems and when the army and President are involved you never really know how far they will go to save everyone and hide a secret that's been on an island for decades. I enjoyed this book for it not being the normal type of story I'm use to reading from James. Finishing and adding to Michael's hard work from notes and studies and some of what was already written is awesome. I'd like to thank Little Brown and James Patter street team for this advanced copy. Keep the fantastic writing coming.

This novel is the perfect mix of James Patterson’s unforgettable storytelling and short chapters and Michael Crichton’s dedication to research and exciting techno- thrillers. It is April 2025 and Mauna Loa is preparing to unleash the biggest eruption ever. Unfortunately the US Army has hidden something terrible away , near Mauna Loa, and if the lava flow can’t be diverted, the world’s end will occur.

It does not disappoint. It sticks the landing. And more: though it lacks the seductiveness of Wolf Hall, it gradually becomes the highpoint of the series. Mantel does the impossible here: she accelerates through time, expanding Thomas Cromwell's life in both directions as he ages and becomes haughty, as Henry VIII rushes through his wives, as England veers through myriad catastrophes in the backdrop. Light spoilers will follow. What a relief for me to finally, 11 years after Wolf Hall, to read Thomas Cromwell's wikipedia page! And Henry's, and Queen Jane's, and all the rest. We open with Anne Boelyn's death: it's a bit of a stagger, assuming, like me, you haven't read Bringing up The Bodies again, and you finished in 2012. There's a curious effect here - I remember the characters faintly, spirits from long ago, but after the initial slog of figuring out who everyone was again, they seemed axiomatic. Mantel's Henry VIII is a particularly indelible character, whose caprices, weight, and self-regard shift and expand as the book draws along, as the unseen net begins to circle around Cromwell. As effective as the great scenes of court (the future Queen Mary and the delightful ambassador Chapuys crackle especially) are, Cromwell's early childhood memories, particularly those with the eel-boy, an oft-referenced interaction that takes harrowing form at book's end, spark just as well. Cromwell is the beating heart of this, his unconscious voice and his dialogue flowing in and out of the text in a way that seems effortless and shows Mantel's absolute mastery of her famous lead. He is a broad, fascinating character (a moving scene with the daughter of his former master, Cardinal Wolsey, is partnered with a bizarre, fascinating rant about how effectively he keeps the books). The ending, which I won't spoil, is gorgeous, unique, and smart. This is an ideal series for our life in quarantine, with soap opera twists and a fascinating educational aspect, though I will caution that there are quite a few scenes of plague-related plots. An attendant becomes sick. The court makes sure to find who he has been in contact with, to keep them at home. I, here in whatever 2020 has become, felt time collapse.

If I could have a Hilary Mantel wish it would be that she writes a novel about Jane Rochford. I constantly found myself wishing Hilary had taken more interest in her. Was it perhaps because her and Anne were so similar that they were at loggerheads? Of all the women at court it seems to me she was the one who had the most venomous (and healthiest contempt) for Henry as a man; that she was the most thwarted by the paltry opportunities offered to women in 16th century England. I couldn't help feeling that it was with a riotous fatalistic glee that she eventually encouraged Catherine Howard to cuckold Henry. As if the angry feminist in her had had enough of all the patriarchal condescension and bullying. I would imagine very few people are going to read this as a stand-alone novel. Hilary had already done all the hard work with the first two books. We all know what will happen to Cromwell but Hilary's skill in brushing almost every early detail with foreboding is masterful. As in the best thrillers it's like every detail radiates the importance of a consummating clue. Cromwell's demise is potently present throughout this book and this in large part is due to how brilliantly Mantel weaves detail into a kind of alternative tapestry whose story Cromwell can't see but we the reader can. Her decision to posit the narrative voice just above but not quite within Cromwell is paramount in making this split so subtle and dramatically effective. For one thing, it heightens our protective instincts towards him. You can tell Hilary didn't want to finish this. She continually procrastinates, she lingers lovingly over every passage, if anything she indulges still more her love of the detail of the fabric of 16th century English life. Meditation plays a bigger part in this novel. Urgency is the last thing on her mind. In fact, this novel is outrageously long considering how little actually happens in his personal life - all the women have now exited the stage, Hilary has already exhausted Cromwell's memories and he forms no new relationship of much interest (an invented daughter adds nothing to Cromwell's character and wasn't for me entirely successful): he is simply left to repeat the same battles with his old enemies and come to terms with his ghosts. But Mantel performs two marvels here: one is to show how Cromwell's relationship with his past subtly change as the pressures of court politics begin to wear him down. As he becomes outwardly less vigilant he becomes inwardly more finely tuned. She kind of ghosts in the possibility that in his mind his downfall isn't entirely undue given how many downfalls he himself has presided over. Resignation begins to undo him. The other is to show how the significance of detail changes with time. One of the most exhilarating moments of the novel is when we learn what details are being used to bring Cromwell down. These details return to us electrified. At least, it was lovingly lingered over until Cromwell's arrest. His fall from grace was so abrupt I was left feeling a bit cheated. We saw it coming; why didn't he? It's also a bit disconcerting how she hurries through his imprisonment. I thought she might have made more poignant drama of his last days and the ghosts of his life. (Though I loved it that he travelled back to Tuscany in his mind.) I would imagine one of the most difficult decisions for a novelist is choosing at what point in the text you're going to insert your material, especially with regards to a character's memories. I perhaps felt she might have made better use of some of these at the end. But suddenly, from not wanting to finish it, she seems in a hurry to get it over and done with. Probably though I felt cheated simply because I didn't want it to end. There's little question Hilary has raised the bar where historical fiction is concerned. I watched The Tudors while reading this and it seemed like vulgar slapstick pantomime in comparison. I was appalled when Cromwell is shown laughing at the burlesque of Wolsey. And you sense, after Mantel, never again will that interpretation be possible. She's also perhaps even raised the bar where Tudor documentaries are concerned. I also watched a series about Henry VIII's six wives and was struck by how facile and flimsily but self-importantly subjective it was. Mantel's great achievement is to give us the illusion that only she has foraged through to the truth about Cromwell, Henry VIII and the Tudor court. She entered Cromwell's heart and soul with such remarkably penetrating intimacy that it was like she was writing about a member of her own family. I suspect one reason she was able to identify so closely with Cromwell is the love of detail they clearly share.

Last night I had the pleasure to watch the stage version (having seen the first two plays some years back) - Mantel’s ability to adapt her work for the stage only adds to my appreciation of this brilliant final part of a triumphant trilogy. It also shows her ability to extract and condense the novel (which demands - possibly over demands - patience, knowledge and interest to extract its considerable rewards) for a different medium. ——————————————————————— Simply magnificent – in my view the strongest of a Trilogy whose first two volumes were among the most deserving winners in Booker history. A book which shines a light into history and in doing so holds up a mirror to our present day. Last Winter, a group of colleagues from around the world visited the UK for an internal conference in Windsor and in a break from the formal proceedings we took a trip to Windsor Castle. One of the many interesting parts of the Tour for me was St George’s Hall – and its ceiling studied with the coats of arms of every Knight of the Garter since its foundation in 1348. I say every Knight – but in fact some of the shields are numbered but blank – these I was told represent Knights expelled from the order (in the early days typically accompanied by execution), and I enjoyed conversing with one of the guides asking which Knight each shield represented and seeing if I could identify the reason for their expulsion. I particularly remember a conversation around the Earl of Monmouth and how his expulsion for trying to overthow a King who only a few years later was overthrown to popular acclaim, was itself a perfect example of revolution (in the true and original meaning of the word) and the wheel of fortune. One of the shields of course represents Thomas Cromwell (his election by the King into the order being one of the high points both of this book and Cromwell’s career; if in some ways designed to legitimized Cromwell’s being effectively made the King’s Uncle with the marriage of Gregory to Lady Ughtred (the Queen’s widowed Sister). And the idea of Cromwell as something of a blank canvas is one which partly lies at the heart of the conception of this fabulous trilogy – Mantel writing what must rank as one of the greatest character studies of all time, of a character who as his biographer Diarmaid MacCullough says is elusive even for a historian due to what he believes to be “deliberate destruction .. [when] Cromwell’s household heard of his arrest .. they began a systematic process of destroying the out-tray of his principle archive”. The result is that “amid the torrent of paperwork through which the conscientious biographer wades to recapture what is left of Thomas Cromwell, the man’s own voice is largely missing”. He then goes on to say “Hilary Mantel has sensitively captured this quality in Thomas Cromwell’s archive in her novels: her Cromwell is pre-eminently an observer, even of himself, not ‘I’ but ‘he’”. But in a different way Cromwell is not a blank canvas at all. Any historian writes with the background of previous biographers (as well as other historians who have included Cromwell – often far from sympathetically – in wider accounts of this pivotal period in not just English, but World history”. And any novelist writes similarly on top of previous fictional realisations of Cromwell – perhaps most notably the pro-More, anti-Cromwell account of “A Man of All Season”, an account which I can only comment seems to make as a hero a man who died in an attempt to ensure common Englishmen could not read the Gospel (and was canonised as a result). So this trilogy is not just a novel but a palimpsest – and in this last section of the trilogy Mantel brings the idea of history being re-written, re-evaluated but always in a way which can only imperfectly erase previous versions out explicitly. We have for example: - The frequent references to the devices of the fallen Queens and their intertwined initials with Henry’s, needing constant repainting; - Cromwell’s interrogation taking place in a room he decorated “for Anne Boleyn to lodge before her coronation. It was he who reglaxed them, and ordered the godesses on the walls; who had their eyes changed from brown to blue when Jane Seymour came in”; - As the book nears its end Cromwell first due to the strictures of fever and then his imminent death, revisits his life story - Mantel accompanies the reader on a revisit of the previous two volumes – in one bravura section of only 2-3 pages we have both the opening and closing sentences of “Wolf Hall” repeated; we also get the full story behind the opening and the young Cromwell’s escape abroad - And Cromwell is very conscious of it as he attempts to re-model England: “Can you make a new England? You can write a new story. You can write new texts and destroy the old ones, set the torn leaves of Duns Scotus sailing about the quadrangles, and place the gospels in every church. You can write on England, but what was written before keeps showing through…” - And finally this idea that history is written in layers, is the reason why this fabulous trilogy is so vital – and despite its historical fiction nature, of far greater relevance to today’s world than the supposedly more contemporary fiction that surrounds us. While reading the trilogy (a third re-read of the first volume, a second re-read of the second) I came across the following quote in the New Statesman taken from a letter written to Machiavelli (a contemporary of Cromwell and whose book increasingly features as the trilogy progresses) “I earnestly believe that only men's faces and the outwards aspect of things change, while the same things reoccur again and again. Thus we are witnessing events that happened earlier. But the alteration in names and outward aspects is such that only the most learned are able to recognise them. That is why history is a useful and profitable discipline, because it shows you and allows you to recognise what you've never seen and experienced" Since the trilogy started we have had the following: Brexit – and the divides both without and within Europe, Nick Timothy/Fiona Hill/Dominic Cummings, #metoo, Trump, Covid-19, Fake News, Austerity My view was that the main themes of this trilogy, are the following areas of the 16th Century: - Swings in Britain’s relationships with Europe, tension between the countries in Britain on that topic, shifting power blocs in Continental Europe itself - The North-South divide of the Pilgrimage of Grace - Advisors and councillors to leaders – their rise, fall and their emnities - Sexual harassment and belittling and subjugation of women - Braggart leaders with self esteem issues emerging in fiery denunciations of their critics - Plagues hitting London - Manipulation of news sources, propaganda and debates around what is true and what isn’t - Government spending cuts impacting on the poor and the tension with the well off as to whether they should support the less fortunate Just an example: Interesting for those of us in the UK in late May to reflect on what happens when an advisor (on whom a leader completely relies for political judgment and did his European policy) alienates large parts of the country including the people, powerful Bishops and other politicians - and then behaves in a way which both outraged them further and gives them an opening to being him down. No Rose Garden press conference here more an interrogation in the the Tower by the agents of the Tudor Rose. Interesting for those of us in the UK this weekend to reflect on what happens when an advisor (on whom a leader completely relies for political judgment and did his European policy) alienates large parts of the country including the people, powerful Bishops and other politicians - and then behaves in a way which both outraged them further and gives them an opening to being him down. No Rose Garden press conference here more an interrogation in the the Tower by the agents of the Tudor Rose. If only Cromwell had thought to explain his fondness for sourcing Lutheran texts as just to help with checking his eyesight. only Cromwell had thought to explain his fondness for sourcing Lutheran texts as just to help with checking his eyesight. ------------------------------------------ ORIGINAL NOTES I attended an event at the Royal Festival Hall tonight to launch the book. The evening started with two of the actors from the TV series reading first from Wolf Hall and then Bring Up The Bodies. Then Hilary Mantel read the opening part of The Mirror and The Light. She then had a long, detailed and very informative interview with the journalist Alex Clark and finished the evening by reading almost the end of the book (p866 if you have a written copy). A few points I found of interest and remembered (I did not take notes so I missed much more): On the length of the book: she emphasised that readers were not reviewers - they did not need to rush to finish the book in 48 hours so they could write a review. (Some on Goodreads may disagree!!). In particular the book is deliberately set out in five main parts (before the closing Mirror and Light chapters dealing respectively with Cromwell’s death and execution). Each of the parts is in three sections (mirroring the trilogy) and structured with an arc something like a novel. In other words she is encouraging people to read one section at a time. While writing the book she was in regular dialogue with Diarmaid MacCullouch and the biography he was writing. I read they biography earlier on the year and it sounds like it is an ideal companion as they used many of the same sources. Intriguingly she mentioned that all six wives feature in the book (I was unclear if book in this context meant The Mirror and The Light or the three volumes - she said elsewhere in the evening that she often talks about “the book” and even “Wolf Hall” meaning all three of the novels as separately published). In particular she said that the sixth wife (Catherine Parr) is in The Mirror and The Light and “not all readers will find her but you will be very pleased with yourself if you do”. So there is a challenge! UPDATE- a fairly easy one by most accounts. The writing of the plays had a big impact on her - in particular realising the importance of placement in a scene reflecting the power dynamics and of how and where dialogue is spoken changing its meaning. The influence of this involvement (which happened after the first two books were published) changed the way she wrote this third book. Often when starting a scene / idea she would imagine how she would write it if she had two actors on a stage and two pieces of dialogue and then expand it from there. She still regards her most impressive achievement as explaining the French East India Company scandal in “A Place of Greater Safety” and when faced with difficulties in this book with how to represent difficult ideas (which were more common here than in the first two volumes) she reminded herself that “you are the woman who ....) She regards her rewriting of the historical consensus verdict on Cromwell as a bad man, as a long overdue correction to an incorrect view perpetuated in secondary sources and which did not stand up when going back to primary sources. From writing the books she has gained a profound respect for those who fought for the reformation and the Gospel in England and has come on a journey much closer to a faith herself. The book is full of references back to images, ideas and scenes in the first two books. “Every character has its arc. Every pigeon comes home to roost”. The night before she finished the book she did not sleep as she felt all of the characters coming back to her demanding she accounted for completing their journey. The next morning went she went down her picture of Henry VIII had fallen from her wall, which have her the sense that The character of Cromwell had our survived even Henry and gave her the impetus to write the closing chapter (which was “more of an assembly job” as she had already written it in pieces). From the first conception of the book she had always imagined it bookended with the “So now get up”.

That's a hat-trick of five-star ratings for this superb trilogy. Utterly spellbinding.

“Are you innocent, if you set up the damage for yourself?” Wow! That’s it. I’m done with Hilary Mantel’s Cromwell trilogy. It’s astounding. THE MIRROR & THE LIGHT begins seconds after the beheading of Anne Boleyn. This is a seductive book. It pulls you in with its stylized writing and intriguing plot development, and then for 757 pages it does not let you go. This novel is about Thomas Cromwell, but Hilary Mantel is also a star of this show. I was aware of her authorial presence all along while still being immersed in the world she created with her words. I am not sure how to explain it, but it’s there, and it’s a good thing. This novel is haunted by ghosts. Ms. Mantel threads seamlessly into the narrative remembrances and effects of Thomas More, Cardinal Wolsey, Cromwell’s father Walter (a terrifying presence), Katherine of Aragorn, Anne Boleyn (and the many that went down with her) and others into a mosaic of the past and present that is always under the surface and constantly affecting the decisions and actions of Thomas Cromwell in the present. At one point he muses, “The dead are more faithful than the living. For better or worse, they do not leave you. They last out the longest night.” Without being obvious or intrusive one is constantly reminded in this book just how much the past influences the present. Mantel depicts Cromwell’s subtle changes with efficiency and nuance. As you are reading you realize they have crept up on you and have been fully integrated into your understanding of the character, but you would be hard pressed to point out when this happened. One thing the close reader of this text will appreciate are all of the little hints that Mantel drops throughout the book that will play larger roles as Cromwell’s descent begins in full swing. Just as in this novel’s predecessors, her ability to weave these things seamlessly into the narrative is indicative of reality. Most things we do/say don’t have significance at the time they happen. It is later that their importance develops. Quotes: • “But if you cannot speak the truth at a beheading, when can you speak it?” • “Go forward, sir. It’s the one direction God permits.” • “Those who think a heart cannot break have led blessed and sheltered lives.” • “In obedience there is strength and tranquility.” • “But it is the present you must reckon with.” • “You can persuade the quick to think again, but you cannot remake your reputation with the dead.” • “…this is what I know: right is what you can get away with, and wrong is what they whip you for.” • “Sudden pleasure afflicts like sudden pain, and leaves you dizzy, numb.” • “We never know how to take it when our life begins to be charmed.” • “I can see why good men want to believe that Christ is coming. We want His justice, when justice seems so long delayed.” • “Even the worst poets, from time to time, hit on a felicitous phrasing.” • “You cannot greet the world in the morning with anything less than ferocity, or by evening you will be destroyed.” The intricacy with which Mantel depicts the shift of Cromwell’s fall from the graces of Henry VIII is well done. Like most relationships where the bloom falls off the rose, the drifting apart sneaks up on them (seemingly) suddenly, and then appears to take forever to fully disintegrate. Having completed the three novels in this series, I can’t say that I preferred one over the other, and I would not attempt to rank them. All I can say is that taken as a unit they form a triumphant whole! It is a brilliant opus that reeks of authenticity, humanity, and much more. Towards the end of the novel Cromwell realizes that “He must traverse his whole life, waking and sleeping: you cannot leave your memories alone in the world for other men to own.” Ms. Mantel is sadly gone now, there will be no more books from her. But I’m glad she left these bits for us to own.

Maybe not as dramatic a standalone as the first two Thomas Cromwell books, but to me the trilogy read like one long, thrilling immersion in a fine Renaissance mind in times of trouble.

You can watch my video review where I take a trip to the Tower of London here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HqAq-XYYiwg What a journey! I've probably devoted more time to Mantel's Cromwell trilogy than I have to any other series of books since I not only read all 2,009 pages of the novels but also biographical and historical writing to better understand this time period. Though it required a lot of concentration and effort it was definitely worth it. I'm going to miss Cromwell whose soul searching odyssey and unprecedented influence as righthand man to the King comes to a heart-wrenching conclusion in this final book. There's a building tension which Mantel incrementally ratchets up and impressively maintains as Cromwell's enemies increase and the politics become so heated over the course of this long novel. Factions within England plot against the ruling monarch amidst the new religious divide and the country's relations with other European nations always feels delicate. Although great promise comes with Henry VIII's new wife Jane Seymour, the King's dynasty is still not secure. The unashamedly classist English noblemen also grow increasingly resentful of Cromwell's influence and power; they never let him forget he's merely the son of a blacksmith without noble lineage. So there's a lot at stake. Mantel uses many fascinating historical details to describe this complicated period of time and bring it alive. It does take patience to follow, but Mantel tempers her narrative with a fantastic humour which prevents the story from becoming dry. Read my full review of The Mirror and the Light by Hilary Mantel on LonesomeReader

My favourite read of the year. Now and again you read a book that is written with so much love, with such depth of engagement that it's an urgent pulse on every page. It's a staggering achievement how vividly she has brought to life Tudor England. The beauty is often in the detail. And because we know horrible Henry is going to turn on Thomas there's a knife-edge tension throughout the third part of this trilogy. Probably lays claim to the best historical fiction ever written.

A masterpiece, and astonishing achievement from Mantel. Full review to follow, but suffice it to say I feel bereft that this incredible series has come to a close, yet grateful we have such work to enjoy.

My rational brain wants to tell you it's 4.5 stars because I think the second book is better blah blah blah. But my emotional brain is a solid 5 stars because reading this book made me happy, which is saying a lot in the spring of 2020. Once I hit the halfway point (of the 38-HOUR AUDIOBOOK, the longest I have ever read, and I have read a lot) I felt a sense of accomplishment along with a pleasant immersion. After all, I started the audiobooks of the trilogy back in January and have spent around two months listening to them. At first I was frustrated. There were too many characters. I often could not tell what was happening. I didn't know when one scene ended and another began. I couldn't tell who was speaking. Everyone was named Thomas. Eventually I had to just let it carry me along. (This is definitely true in print as well, since I had many of the same feelings when I originally read it in print, but audio definitely made all that even worse. Particularly with the original narrator, who I don't love.) The second book was better; it was shorter, there were fewer characters, it took place in a limited time span, and it was all really about just one thing. And while the third book wasn't as tight as the second (the opposite, as it's the longest of the three by a good stretch) it has the benefit of an established universe to move around in. By now we know these characters (ok, we may still forget who people are but we get the general gist and we know the more important thing of how they fit into the ongoing power plays of palace intrigue) and, of course, we know the ending. But we have all these hours/pages in between to see all the little details of how it plays out. I highly recommend reading these books with only the broadest strokes of Tudor history in your memory. I never took European History. I watched THE TUDORS but I don't remember anything that actually happened, just that everyone was far too young and attractive. I know Mary becomes queen, but I honestly only remembered that because I saw it on a history show my kids watched about Elizabeth I. I know the number of Henry's wives only because there is a musical about them that I have not seen called SIX. That meant that the third book, which is so packed with plot it's hard to fathom, kept throwing new developments at me and I kept wondering how each new thing wasn't The Thing that would take our boy Crom down. I kept wondering how he would find a way through it. It was awfully twisty if you don't know anything about Tudor history. Can't speak to how it is if you do. But after the pleasure of immersion, the chief emotion I had about this story was stress and frustration. Because, in the end, this is a story about how bad it is to have your government run by someone who is constantly told he is better than everyone else and that everything he does is good because he does it. Which is TOO RELEVANT at the moment. But at least after 70+ hours of listening I could understand how people believed it and tolerated it, how that kind of world must have been to live in. It is baffling at some point to see so many people eager to get into the King's orbit when it's clear, not only from this King but plenty of recent history, that this is just as dangerous as the Plague everyone keeps worrying about. And yet, no one can seem to see the logic of it, they are all pulled into the orbit of money and power, even when it is clearly against their own best interests. In that way, it's an age-old story, and more relevant than it should be. Was definitely an easier, more low key reading experience in 2010. I have listened to these three books from three different readers, which I cannot really recommend as an experience. I found the second reader, Simon Vance, to be the best as audiobooks go. (Making it clear who's speaking, when scenes change, etc. through voice only is hard.) Adjusting to Ben Miles was hard, he has some very different stylistic choices, most notably giving Cromwell a different accent. But once I was 8 or so hours in I was used to it and able to go along with it and by the end I liked him fine. (The Audible comments are not so hospitable.) Apparently Miles has recorded all three books, the other two will be released later this year (a decision that remains baffling, should have done them before book 3's release but whatever) and it's clear from some extra material at the end that Miles is Mantel's preferred reader, especially as he was the man who portrayed Cromwell in the theater adaptation, which Mantel co-wrote. So I suppose we can take his choices as being the closest to Mantel's own. (Sorry, angry Audible commenters.) I am still not sure audio is better than print, I'm sure it would be nice to read with a character list easily at hand, but audio is such an immersive experience and I have to say that I found that doing the entire trilogy on audio was one of the more gratifying reading experiences I've had in the last few years. So maybe it is better. Although this way, I expect to hear "He, Cromwell," in my dreams because I have heard it said so many times. I cannot explain why I enjoyed this all so much. I was often bored by the flashbacks to Cromwell's childhood, even though I understood why they were important. I do not read much historical fiction and when I do it is not from this period. I found the first book fine but secretly for many years kept my opinion that it's overrated to myself. And yet, here I am giving it an honest five stars when I haven't given anything 5 stars in 6 months. (Usually I give 1-2 books a month 5 stars, I do not know what is going on, tbh.) Is it the peculiar experience of it that I am so enamored with rather than the book? Let's not ask too many questions. I enjoyed the hell out of it and I cannot say that about many things anymore.

What a majestic conclusion to the Cromwell saga. From glorious passages that take one’s breath away with their brilliance to its grand architecture that throws intriguing and revealing light and shadow back on the previous two works; this novel is a finely wrought work of art. Mantel gives us a lesson in what the novel can achieve and for me this stands alongside works by my favourites (Tolstoy, Dickens, Steinbeck, Morrison, Zade Smith). The structure loops back on events from the earlier two books with some beautifully haunting memory episodes. This has an effect of recasting and mirroring in a new light some of those earlier events, including the ways in which Cromwell experiences and recalls them. At points this remembering and recasting is quite subtle, almost a kind of historical consciousness playing out behind Cromwell's back or echoing back from the contemporary moment. These aren't just flashbacks but dissonant echoes and images of historical memory that float through the narrative, haunting it with their strangely unteethered presence. In many ways The Mirror and the Light is itself a mirror that casts the earlier books and my readings of them in a whole new light. For example, the An Occult History of Britain section from Wolf Hall sets up some really powerful images and metaphors of deeply ancient and mythic power that return in really interesting ways in Mirror & the Light that aren't at all laboured or heavy handed. Some wonderful images are at work across the three books to explore in our reading. For example, towards the conclusion as Cromwell faces his end: 'Sometimes his mind drifts away, as it must: far from this room, beyond the city walls, across the fields and into the forest. The cover is dense, as in the years before trees were cut down for houses and ships, and all the creatures now extinct are alive again, for good or ill; the beaver in the stream, the wolf gaining on you with his long stride. When a man does not know which path to take he scatters crumbs from the loaf he carries in his hand, but the birds swoop behind him and eat them. He takes off his shirt and tears it into strips, and ties a strip to a branch at each fork in the road, but the ogres who live deep in the wood tread after him and steal the linen to bind their wounds: for ogres are always fighting. He labours on, and talking tress snigger about him, hiding their expressions of contempt behind their leaves'. What a passage with its gorgeous meta resonances that reach back to the earlier novels as well as forward to us with a sly wink and nudge about the histories that have been told and written about this man Cromwell. 'It is Putney that works away at him, distant but close. When he was weak with fever the past broke in, and now he has no defence against his memories, they recapitulate themselves any time they like: when he sits in the council chamber, words fall about him in a drizzling haze, and he finds himself wrapped in the climate of his childhood. He is a monk who descends the night stair, still wrapped in dreams, so that the shuffling feet of his breathren are transformed to the whisper of leaves in the forests of infancy: and like a hidden creature stirring from a leaf-bed, his mind stirs and turns, on a restless circuit. He tries to tether it (to now, this time, this place) but it will roam: scenting the staleness of soiled straw and stagnant water, the hot grease of the smith, horse sweat, leather, grass, yeast, tallow, honey, wet dog, spilled beer, the lanes and wharves of his childhood' 'What does God see? Cromwell in the fifty-fourth year of his age, in all his weight and gravitas, his bulk wrapped in wool and fur? Or a mere flicker, an illusion, a spark beneath a shoe, a spit in the ocean, a feather in a desert, a wisp, a phantom, a needle in a haystack? If Henry is the mirror, he is the pale actor who sheds no lustre of his own, but spins in a reflected light. If the light moves he is gone' Mantel is a magician; she has truly delivered with this finale. Yes it is long, but I truly savoured every page and would not wish it to be a sentence shorter. There are so many passages like those I quote above, packed with images and metaphors that I will no doubt return to as they craft the elusive meanings and reading experience of this work in so many directions. I have throughly enjoyed and marvelled at the reflected light Mantel's prose casts as Cromwell's historical consciousness; it has been a joy to follow the suble movement as that light of consciousness (character if you like) flickers from book to book, chapter to chapter, section to section. What a monumental achievement. An issue I do have is that the series is about those of power and privilege, essentially ignoring the underclass other than mostly as fodder and background colour for the voices and stories of the Kings, Queens, Lords and Ladies. I guess the fact that Cromwell rises from a lower class background in Putney does give this a different edge and Mantel, through Cromwell, does reflect on issues of class at varous points. But still it is very much a historical novel of privilege. I have though parked that concern somewhat as just wow, this is a glorious novel.

"A giant cannot imagine what it is like to be a man of ordinary height. He cannot enter into their feelings. He never learns to bargain or deceive: why would he, when he gets his way simply by cracking his knuckles? When you are a child you think you have to kill the giant, but as you grow up you think different. Suppose you meet him by chance one day: you about your common business, picking up sticks or inspecting your rabbit traps, and he taking the air at the entrance to his cave, or toiling on a mountainside to uproot great oaks. Giants are lonely; they don't know any other giants. Sometimes they want a boy like Jack to amuse them, to run errands and teach them songs. Conquer your awe then, grab your chance. If you know how to talk to a giant it works like a spell. The monster becomes your creature. He thinks you serve him, but in fact you serve yourself."

"Farewell? A long farewell to all my greatness This is the state of man: today he puts forth The tender leaves of hopes: tomorrow blossoms, And bears his blushing honours thick upon him The third day comes a frost, a killing frost, And when he thinks, good easy man, full surely His greatness is a-ripening, nips his root, And then he falls, as I do. I have ventured, Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders, This many summers in a sea of glory, But far beyond my depth: my high-blown pride At length broke under me, and now has left me Weary, and old with service, to the mercy Of a rude stream, that must for ever hide me. Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye: I feel my heart new opened. O, how wretched Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours? There is betwixt that smile we would aspire to, That sweet aspect of princes, and their ruin, More pangs and fears than wars or women have: And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer, Never to hope again" Enter Cromwell, standing amazed Shakespeare: The Life of King Henry the Eighth, Act 3, Scene 2

An excellent book, with a very sad ending.

In this final novel in the Thomas Cromwell trilogy, he is well established inside the court of King Henry VIII. Being that this King is mercurial to say the least, no one is totally above reproach at any time and the author writes a well documented and researched work that reads more like a work of non-fiction. If walls could talk Hilary Mantel was definitely listening. I really enjoyed this as it was captivating and an excellent story. If you are a history buff, or just enjoy a very good story I would recommend work by this author.

Each day I looked forward to looking into the life of Thomas Cromwell, so I’m a bit sad to close the third book in the trilogy, bringing his story and life to an end. Like the two previous books, “Wolf Hall” and “Bring up the Bodies,” “The Mirror and the Light” brings to light with exquisite prose the machinations of Henry VIII’s court with Cromwell at the center. In doing so, Mantel flaunts a few of the standard writer “rules” and yet she makes it work. I applaud her for that!

Hilary Mantel’s portrait of Thomas Cromwell began with Wolf Hall (2009), continued with Bring Up the Bodies (2012) and now ends with The Mirror & the Light (2020), another epic read, and at 900 pages it still didn't feel long enough. The trilogy is a rags to riches story, and a rise and fall tale. The Mirror & the Light opens with the execution of Anne Boleyn and, although Thomas Cromwell is at the apogee of his power, the intrigue which will bring him down is also evident. The king is ever more capricious and dissatisfied, Cromwell's enemies are more emboldened, and there's the sense that his deals have come at a price. Knowing how this will all end just adds to the tension. The finale, which harks back to the opening of Wolf Hall, is absolutely gripping. This trilogy is an immersive journey into the 16th century, and the court of Henry VIII, and it's stunning. I loved every second of these amazing books. They are engrossing, intelligent, insightful, exciting, and funny. So ends one of the great reading experiences of my life* What a book. What a trilogy. If you haven’t read them, what are you waiting for? 5/5 *Yes, right up there with… Sword of Honour by Evelyn Waugh Jerusalem by Alan Moore The 'A Dance To The Music Of Time' 12 volume cycle of novels by Anthony Powell Brideshead Revisited by Evelyn Waugh

All the Stars!!!!! Can I just say that I loved everything about this book and leave it at that!?! Where the Crawdads Sing is a story of resiliency, survival, hope, love, loss, loneliness, desperation, prejudice, determination and strength. This book goes back and forth in time to tell the story of Kya Clark a.k.a. the Marsh girl. She lives on the outskirts of town, in the Marsh, and the locals look down their noses at her, she is judged, ridiculed and bullied. But there are those who show her kindness, friendship, and show her love. Oh, how I loved this book! Kya was a young girl when her Mother walked away without looking back. Soon, all her siblings followed suit, leaving Kya alone with her often absent, drunk, and abusive father. She is left to care for their home, to cook, clean and take care of both of their needs. How her situation pulled on my heartstrings. She had to learn to shop, to cook and to provide food for herself in her father's absence. All while dealing with loneliness, feelings of abandonment and loss. Always wondering when and if her Mother will ever return. She was a smart and clever girl who knew the marsh and found ways to make money and provide for her basic needs. Soon 'Jumpin and his wife, Mable, show her kindness, generosity and love. I dare you not to adore this couple! As Kya grows and learns more about life through her interactions with the creatures of the Marsh, two young men enter her life. One is her brother's older friend, Tate, who teaches her to read and shows her acceptance and happiness. Another brings her hope of a future but won’t introduce her to his friends and family. Could one be her chance at happiness? A chance at belonging? A chance at being accepted? A chance at being loved? A Chance for growth? Or will history repeat itself? In 1969, local football legend, Chase Andrews is found dead. Rumors swirl as to motive and possible suspects. Rumors have been circulating for years about Chase and his involvement with the Marsh girl. Could she be his killer? What motive could she have? This book had a little bit of everything that I love: a likeable main character who pulls at your heartstrings, murder mystery, atmosphere, drama, coming of age, and romance. There are several characters who give and show kindness including, Tate, the cashier who gives back too much change and the couple who make sure Kya has what she needs. What is the saying? Those that have the least to give, give the most! There is a police investigation and court room drama and some twists and turns I did not see coming. This book is beautifully written and contains poetry and vivid descriptions of the Marsh. I highly recommend this book! It's thoughtful, evokes emotion, and transports the reader back in time to the Marsh. I loved every page. Read more of my reviews at www.openbookpost.com

"There are some who can live without wild things, and some who cannot." Kya Clark - the Marsh Girl - led a lonely life. Her mother left her, her siblings left her, her father went out and never came home. The townspeople abhorred her and left her well-alone. But when you are only a child yourself, how do you survive? Kya laid her hand upon the breathing, wet earth, and the marsh became her mother. And so Kya learns to love and live by herself. "Most of what she knew, she'd learned from the wild. Nature had nurtured, tutored, and protected her when no one else would." And as she grew, so did her curiosity. "She could read anything now, he said, and once you can read anything you can learn everything. It was up to her." Since she could read and write, and she had an unquenchable thirst for knowledge, she did the only logical thing - she taught herself. I wasn't aware that words could hold so much. I didn't know a sentence could be so full. But then, Chase Andrews, winds up dead. Kya Clark, now an adult, is the prime suspect. Just when her life was finally picking up, it goes to pieces. Whew. Guys. Girls. People of all ages. This one was STUNNING. Like absolutely *stunning*. I don't even know where to begin - there was so much to love about this book. The setting was absolutely magical - every time we talked about the swamp and the life within it, I was absolutely riveted to the book. Kya was such a gorgeous main character - I felt for her so much and I wanted to just wrap her up in a hug the whole time. Kya's first love was so beautifully done - I literally had the hug-the-book-to-yourself-and-squeal moment when they found each other. I also have now developed an addition to nature-themed books thanks to this gorgeous one. In short - there's a LOT to love about this book and you NEED to read it as soon as possible. This one was absolutely stunning. I just. It's wonderful. YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads

a reread before the movie comes out because, for once, a film adaptation looks amazing and i actually want to see it. ______________________ there are currently 582 people waiting for this book at my library. at first i thought that notification was a glitch; but then i read this, this impossibly tender story, and now im shocked as to why the waitlist isnt twice that. there is a reason this book has become so sought after, and it feels like a privilege to have experienced it. this is one of the most memorable coming-of-age stories i have read in quite some time. it is a story that proves the growth of a person and the cultivation of nature are not mutually exclusive. this book is a celebration of all life, human and mother earth alike. there is a very special connection between kya and the environment which raised her. the elegant prose and lyrical depictions of the marshlands are so beautifully comforting, guiding the reader through kyas world, just as it guided her throughout life. i cannot describe what an intimate feeling it is, to see the world through kyas eyes. its so enlightening to see someone comprehend that even though there is a harshness to surviving, there is also immense wonder and beauty. this story is as touching as it is inspiring. and i now have a very strong desire to take an evening walk, look at the stars, and just marvel at the world in which i live. ↠ 5 stars

4.5 stars rounded up . A story of survival, of what the depth of loneliness feels like when a young girl is abandoned first by her mother, then her four siblings. Even at five Kya understands why they left - because of her father, because of his meanness, his abuse, his drinking. What she doesn’t understand is why they left her behind and neither could I. She remains pretty much alone since her father comes and goes until he doesn’t come back. It was gutting as she sits on the beach with the gulls not wanting them to fly away and leave her too. Heartbreaking how she is neglected and abandoned, remembering the beatings, trying to figure out a way to eat. Atmospheric is an understatement, and I don’t use that word often because it seems overused sometimes but this place, the marsh permeates just about everything that is meaningful in this story beginning with Kya’s realization “And the marsh became her mother.” The marsh becomes her life, her livelihood, the essence of who she becomes through her self learned expertise of the insects and the birds, her art. But is it enough to heal her? The kind hearts of Jumpin’ and Mabel who help a little girl alone and in need, the only human contact she has until her brother’s friend Tate comes into her life, but is that enough to help her heal ? I love the writing, fabulous descriptions of the marsh. The marsh and its inhabitants, the insects, the fish, the birds which pique Kya’s curiosity, give her so much joy and company, and allow her to become the expert she does become on the marsh and marsh life. But is that enough to make Kya whole after so much hurt and loneliness? There’s a murder mystery, not my usual fare, but I was totally engaged, trying to come up with who the murderer was, totally engaged in the courtroom scenes. I gave it 4.5 stars because there were a couple of things that felt not quite realistic. But when I woke up thinking about this story, I knew I would round it up to 5 stars . I don’t often cry over books, but this one definitely brought me to tears at a number of places. Overall it was such a fabulous read, heartbreaking in so many ways, with wonderful writing and characters, a stunning portrait of a place, of the trauma of loss and loneliness. My heart was always broken for Kya, a character to remember. An unforgettable ending. This was a monthly read with Esil and Diane and as always I appreciate their thoughts as we read together. In this case, we have very similar feelings about this beautiful story. I received an advanced copy of this book from G.P. Putnam’s Sons through Edelweiss.

This was such a GOOD book, am at a loss for words 😭😭 Having seen the movie already, I thought it would dull my reading experience down a tad bit if only, I loved it more. Kya has my heart, she is such a vibrant and strong character. Her struggles with life kind of resonated in some places. The way she took care of herself with no one around and even when people came and betrayed her trust, she never lost herself. She made mistakes, but she learned. Chase was honestly, the worst thing to happen. Tate although imperfect was better than Chase. These two guys make and break Kya but I never really cared about the guys as much as I did for her. I didn't particularly care for the romance as I did for the character development. Sure, there were some sweet moments but wasn't really impactful for me. I liked Jumpin' and Mabel wayyyyy more. The marsh descriptions were vivid and well written. I was fully immersed in it tbh and didn't really want to put this book down. The legal aspect was interesting to read. I knew how it all ends and I still found it to be satisfying. Highly recommended if you're looking for a story that revolves around a character and her journey. It's a coming of age story with murder mystery aspect. ⚠️TW- Domestic abuse, child abandonment, abuse and neglect, bullying, racism, socioeconomic discrimination, and attempted rape. ~•~•~ Have I seen the movie? Yes Am I still going to read it? Also yes

This book made me fall in love with reading again!!!!! So many thoughts, not enough words! Such an easy read and the fantastic storyline, this book was so GOOD! The details are rich and flavorful…I loved the walk in the marsh this book gave me. I felt all the feels and my imagination ran wild. The twists and turns were impeccable. I could only suspect how things were going to go, but nope, wrong at every turn! I like it when a book does that. Do yourself a favor and cozy up to enjoy this immersive read! I think it’s well worth the time.

Emotionally, this book was a solid 5 stars for me. But if I really stop and think about it logically... maybe more like a 2. Still, I went with my gut and gave it 5. No regrets. I went with 5 stars because this book, seen through a child's eyes, captures a magical, raw, and natural marshland. The language is beautiful, heartfelt, and straightforward. The tone is innocent, and the characters are so likeable that it's hard to believe Owens was already 70 when she wrote it! (No wonder I kept wondering how someone could portray the personality of 1960s American country folk so vividly.) The book focuses more on the girl's feelings and growth rather than the case itself, presenting a female perspective with deep inner analysis. The opening chapters are slow, but looking back after finishing it, I realized how richly detailed and enjoyable it was. Owens spends a lot of time painting a picture of the marsh's landscape, its plants and animals, rivers, and the old hut, almost making you feel like you're there. Spoiler Alert! As the story goes on, you learn about 7-year-old Kya, abandoned by her family. She waits for her mother to return but ends up surviving alone by digging for mussels and fishing in the mud, growing up amid the villagers' discrimination and isolation. It's not that there was no social aid or kind people, but they couldn't overcome Kya's inherent reliance on nature. People see her as a wild child and avoid her, with some kids even daring each other to go near her house. The book's portrayal of her isolated, extremely lonely state is deeply touching. She talks to herself and plays her own games. Kya's teenage years worried me the most. She had grown into a young woman, reminding me of Esmeralda from The Hunchback of Notre-Dame - a stunning beauty desired by many men but unable to protect herself, ultimately becoming a plaything. Thankfully, Owens’s writing is gentle. The book's core highlight is how Kya, despite being away from society, learns all the truths about life from nature. There are many analyses on this aspect, even revealing the story's true ending. But in fact, she's not entirely detached from society. She once yearned for a family and even fantasized about marrying a boy and living a normal life. The book's turning point comes when she reaches an understanding with her mother across space and time - after Chase's attack, she escapes but is deeply fearful. Chase's words, "You belong to me," echo in her mind, making her understand why her mother left. She largely forgave her mother. Kya's father is Chase's future; she'd live in his shadow forever like her mother. Knowing the terror, she wouldn't repeat her mother's path. Like I said earlier, if you don't overanalyze, this is a perfect novel. But the murder case is the story's suspense point, highlighting gender, prejudice, and emotional conflicts. By right, this design added points. However, does murder or avenging men really reflect female wisdom? Is violence and deception the only way for the abandoned to breathe fresh air? Is primitive violence the only way to prove wildness? This prejudice is chilling, and using reflections on prejudice to save the murderer and evoke sympathy and love from readers is even more chilling. Is this paying the price for prejudice or telling us not to reflect on prejudice? The ending tears the character apart, creating a romantic escape from punishment. Ignoring logical issues, it's miraculous Kya never got sick as a child, and it's strange she could sail. Jodie's scar seems forcibly inserted by Owens, and her husband of 30-40 years didn't know she wrote and published poetry? The townspeople's reactions are also stiff, and the defense lawyer didn't ask many substantive questions. From another perspective: a long-isolated, fearful, violated (wild, rejected, pitiful, wetland, genius) girl murders a tyrant and escapes punishment, trying to move readers. Murder corresponds to domestic violence and female plight. Does revenge bring happiness? Living to 64, peaceful, writing poetry about her murder journey? Poetry and tokens in a small box... Yes, she's pitiful, but how terrifying if your life partner is like this? Her murder plan - using "modern civilization" rules and precise planning - doesn't it feel torn? … Okay. Forgive me. A novel is just a novel. Sometimes, without overanalyzing, the world is, still beautiful. Got it. 4.5 / 5 stars.

4.5 all aboard the hype train stars!!! Full review along with a few recipes for a decadent southern fried feast featured on my blog Recipe and a Read! When Kya Clark is 6 years old, she watches as her mother walks away from her, seemingly without a second thought. With the departure of their matriarch, the Clark family slowly but surely vanishes into the marsh that will become the only family Kya will ever know. Her siblings leave shortly after her mother, leaving Kya alone with her father who negligent at best and abusive at worst. She is left to raise herself, care for her father and their home as she struggles with feelings of abandonment, a deep loneliness and fear that during one of her father’s absences social workers will come whisk her away to the dreaded group home. She knew the years of isolation had altered her behavior until she was different from others, but it wasn’t her fault she’d been alone. Most of what she knew, she’d learned from the wild. Nature had nurtured, tutored and protected her when no one else would. It’s the 1950’s when we’re given the bulk of Kya’s story and upbringing. To say it was difficult is putting it in the absolute mildest terms. She has no education to speak of, she has no means to make money and she must rely on her whit and the lessons of the marsh and a few kind townspeople. For the most part, people avoid her, don’t let their children play with her, mock and marginalize her. As we see Kya grow, what really shows most brightly for me was her utter resilience. She is one of the strongest and most genuinely likable characters I’ve come across in a long time. While Kya’s story is our main timeline, there is a dual timeline running in 1969 that starts off with the death of town legend and golden boy Chase Andrews. As rumors entrench the town about what could have happened to Chase, what might have happened in his past with Kya things get sticky. Sometimes she heard night-sounds she didn’t know or jumped from lightning too close, but whenever she stumbled, it was the land who caught her. Until at last, at some unclaimed moment, the heart-pain seeped away like water into sand. Still there, but deep. Kya laid her hand upon the breathing, wet earth, and the marsh became her mother. This, at it’s heart, is a deeply sad but moving story about a misunderstood girl, about abandonment and loss. However, there are uplifting moments and characters that come into Kya’s life that shed light into her dreary and lonely world - through friendships with a shop owner named Jumpin’ and his wife Mabel, through a boy named Tate who teaches Kya not just how to read but about acceptance and friendship and joy. These two timelines slowly begin to converge upon one another and as it does the true gem of this story becomes apparent: nature and all it’s wonders. I really took my time reading this one, and while it did start off a little slow for me, what never wavered was the truly magnificent prose that Owen deals out with an incredibly deft hand. I’m not sure I’ve ever read something so empirically lovely, it’s the type of story that satisfies a need for a reader to love and appreciate language. One of my favorite things I’ve found in many historical fiction novels is the ability of an author to create secondary characters out of things like setting, the time period and in this case, the marsh itself. Kya was bonded to her planet and its life in a way few people are. Rooted solid in this earth. Born of this mother. I’m not sure I quite understood what the term atmospheric meant prior to reading this novel. The marsh, the insects, the birds, the mud and the sand permeate this entire story. It creates a heady need to immerse oneself fully in prose so elegant and indulgent that you can’t help but reflect in awe of the ability to weave such a vivid and emotional story in a way that becomes exceedingly difficult to do it justice with mere words that ultimately fall flat in comparison to what you have just read. I read this with the Traveling Sisters and we all mostly ended up in the same coulee of being enamored with the beautiful writing and development of this story!

I am VEHEMENTLY in love with Kya and words can't express it. Period. That's my review .❤️💕

Kya ran to the porch, watching her mother walking down the sandy lane in her fake alligator skin heels, her only going out pair, holding a blue train case. She never wore those heels and she never carried a case. That was the last time Kya saw her Ma. There has been fights before and Ma has left several times but she always came back. Over the next few weeks, Kya's oldest brother and two sisters left too. They were tired of Pa's red faced rages, which started out as shouts, then escalated into fist slugs or backhanded punches. Her Pa had fought Germany in the Second World War. His weekly disability checks were their only income. Her Pa eventually left her too at a very young age and Kya was all by herself. She lived in the marsh all by herself. She went to school once but she was teased and never went back. Steve and Benji saw a body laying in the mud. A man was laying flat on his back. Benji noticed it was Chase Andrews. They ride their bikes fast to the Sheriff's office. They let the sheriff know that they saw Chase Andrews flat out in the swamp under the fire tower. They let him know that he looked dead. The sheriff and the Dr. noticed that there wasn't any footprints near the body. None going toward the stairs or away from the stairs, none around the body and Chase Andrews footprints weren t there either. No footprints were found anywhere. This then turns into a murder mystery. I just loved the setting of this book, in the marsh. I loved the atmosphere and just felt that I was there. The descriptions of the environment, the scenery and nature was just beautiful. I am a bird watcher and loved her descriptions of the birds feathers. I also loved the mystery and suspense also. I really loved her writing style. Her writing was so beautuful. I just wanted to savor it. This was an easy five star rating for me. It just Wowed me. I loved the characters. I loved Kya the best. and felt so bad for her having to live the way that she did at a very young age. she was so intelligent. I loved Tate too, who taught Kya how to read and other subjects. I loved the poetry. I loved Jumpin and Mabel who were heroes. I could go on and on about this book but I could never give it the justice it deserves. One of my favorites for 2018? This was a Traveling Friends read and I thought it was a fantastic discussion. I loved reading this with them. I want to thank Edelweiss, G.P. Putnam's Sons, and Delia Owens for the copy of this book in exchange for a honest review.

“If anyone would understand loneliness, the moon would.” 4.5 ⭐️ ✨Where the Crawdads Sing has received mixed reviews, I can see why some people hate it and why others love it. I’m part of the group that loved this book. ✨ I'll keep this review short and sweet. I feel like I'm the last person to read this book lol Plot- Where the Crawdads Sing tells the story of Kya, who was forced into social isolation from the age of six after her whole family, one by one, left her. The final member to leave was her abusive father. Surviving almost entirely by herself, aided only by the occasional kindness of strangers and her neighbor and his wife. Kya is ostracized and shunned by most of her neighbors. Everyone around her called her the “Marsh Girl”.Although the novel focuses on the years between 1965 and 1970, it encompasses the whole span of Kya’s life…While growing with Kya you learn of two men she falls in love with a different time in her life. Tate and Chase. In late 1969, when handsome Chase is found dead, the locals immediately suspect Kya Clark, the so-called Marsh Girl. Where the Carwdads Sing is told in the past leading up to the murder and flash forwards detailing the progress of the murder investigation. One part mystery, one part legal drama, one part coming of age story, and one part love story- equals a pleasurable and suspenseful story “There are some who can live without wild things, and some who cannot.” My Thoughts- I really enjoyed this book. This book really swept me away. I couldn’t help but get lost in Kya’s world. 1) how did she survive until adulthood? We met her when she was 6 years old… 2) who kills chase?) 3) Does she ever see her mom again? So many questions kept me totally hooked on reading this book . I just needed my questions answered. T he book is nice, but more than anything it is compelling. Kya is compelling. Her story is compelling. And with the murder mystery thrown in there, it makes it a real page-turner. Who dunnit!?! And why? And how? The compelling imagery is descriptive in the right places and sparse when it serves the story better instead. The book has a strong sense of place, transporting you to a different life where you can smell the salty air and sink your feet into the muddy grounds outside the seaside village. The book takes several various directions and merges them to form one beautiful product. The overall portrayal of the main character and her growth is just something I have never seen depicted so perfectly. The writing and story evolved allowed me to connect with it more profoundly. Oh, and that ending. Will I ever process it? Will I ever get over it? Will my love for this book ever die? No no nooo. “She knew the years of isolation had altered her behavior until she was different from others, but it wasn't her fault she'd been alone. Most of what she knew, she'd learned from the wild. Nature had nurtured, tutored, and protected her when no one else would.” 🗣️I definitely recommend this book. It a beautiful story. I think you have to be in the mood for a story like this. The pace is slow but so magical. “Go as far as you can—way out yonder where the crawdads sing.” Playlist- 🐚Carolina- Taylor Swift (I guess she wrote this song for this book) 🐚Have You Ever Seen The Rain- Creedence Clearwater Revival 🐚Wish You Were Here- Pink Floyd 🐚Beach Baby- Bon Iver 🐚 Proud Mary- Creedence Clearwater Revival 🐚Cottage Roads- The Walters 🐚Free Bird- Lynyrd Skynyrd 🐚Unchained Melody- The Righteous Brothers 🐚 Stuck In The Middle- Stealers Wheels 🐚Like A Rolling Stone- Bob Dylan 🐚 The Tracks Of My Tears- Smokey Robinson 🐚The Last American Dynasty- Taylor Swift 🐚 Eucalyptus- The National 🐚 Wastleand Baby- Hozier 🐚Invisible String- Taylor Swift 🐚Rhiannon- Fleetwood Mac 🐚Hello My Old Heart- The Oh Hellos 🐚River - Leon Bridges “I wasn't aware that words could hold so much. I didn't know a sentence could be so full.

On literacy: “I wasn’t aware that words could hold so much. I didn’t know a sentence could be so full”. If Kya had grown up in the mountains of Appalachia, townies might have looked down their noses and scoffed at her as a “redneck”, “hillbilly”, or perhaps “white trash” and “trailer trash”. But since she lived deep in the Atlantic coastal tidal marshes of North Carolina, the vogue term of disparagement was “marsh girl” or “marsh trash”. Demonstrating sensitivity and an innate intelligence that was clearly off the charts to an empty audience, Kya raised herself living alone and completely isolated for years in a shack with only her ever-growing collection of biological artifacts to love: “Her collections matured, categorized methodically by order, genus, and species; by age according to bone wear; by size in millimeters of feathers; or by the most fragile hues of greens. The science and art entwined in each other’s strengths; the colors, the light, the species, the life; weaving a masterpiece of knowledge and beauty that filled every corner of her shack. Her world. She grew with them – the trunk of the vine – alone, but holding all the wonders together. But just as her collection grew, so did her loneliness … months passed into a year. Then another.” … until she encountered Tate Walker, a young man, whose yearning for her companionship, her mind, and her beauty, blossomed into a love that would not and could not be requited in the wilderness of Kya’s beloved marsh. Kya’s world slowly began to open to new possibilities as he patiently taught her to read and write. Despite his promises to return to her and stay in touch, Tate’s departure to attend university left open the possibility for Kya’s marginal encounters with civilization to take her down a different and tortuous Byzantine path. Having encountered Chase Andrews, a second young man who offered the possibility of entry into a larger world of possible friends, family and love, Kya’s world collapses when Andrew’s broken body is found at the foot of a decrepit fire tower in the marsh and she is charged with his murder. No doubt there are those that would dismiss WHERE THE CRAWDADS SING as romantic chick-lit and, to be sure, it definitely has some of that flavour that might incline readers to momentarily assign such a label. But to do so would unfairly weaken an extraordinary novel that is so much more – a murder mystery, a legal thriller, a coming-of-age narrative, a celebration of nature, science and outdoors writing, and an awesome, gut-wrenching, cautionary tale on the human frailties of racism, bigotry, xenophobia, rejection, exclusion, snobbery, and our propensity to make unwarranted judgments and draw conclusions on the basis of appearances and incomplete knowledge and information. The author herself characterized her novel in the following way: “WHERE THE CRAWDADS SING is a mystery, a love story, and a courtroom drama, but it is primarily about self-reliance, survival, and how isolation affects human behavior. Since our specises is a social mammal, we have strong genetic tendencies to belong to a group of tightly bonded family and friends. But what happens if a young girl … finds herself alone without a group? Of course, she feels lonely, threatened, insecure, and incompetent. [She] also behaves strangely, hiding behind trees when she sees others on the beach and avoiding the village. She ventures deeper into the wilds of the marsh, away from people, and in so doing begins to learn life’s lessons directly from the natural world.” WHERE THE CRAWDADS SING is a heart-warming, compelling, gut-wrenching, awesome novel that will definitely be on my TOP TEN list for 2022. Beyond that, a jaw-dropping ending inclines me to add it to that much more atmospheric list of my personal lifetime favourites. Regardless of what genre might press your buttons, I can definitely recommend WHERE THE CRAWDADS SING as an awesome read. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. Paul Weiss

Stunning, enchanting & emotive! So before I start off with my review there is something that I must confess to. While reading this novel there was always this niggling annoyance in the forefront of my mind telling me that I wasn’t connecting with the third person narrative here. I am not exactly sure what it was for me but that really bothered me that I wasn’t able to give this story my whole heart. Regardless of not connecting with the third person narrative I thought this story and the words written were absolutely beautiful though. And in the end after long discussions with my dear friend, Kris she helped me work out my feelings towards this book and come to a few realizations that were pivotal. I am so happy to say that I was able to get that warm fuzzy feeling that I was so desperately seeking from this book. WHERE THE CRAWDADS SING by DELIA OWENS was an engrossing, moving, heartbreaking and charming coming of age, love story and murder mystery novel all wrapped up into one incredible and delightful story. I was immediately drawn into this quiet and powerful story that revolves around the survival and resilience of an unforgettable young girl named Kya, abandoned at the age of 10 and growing up alone in the marsh. Kya’s story consumed my thoughts and my heart totally while I was reading this novel. She had me laughing, smiling, crying, worried and rooting for her every step of the way. DELIA OWENS delivers an intriguing, atmospheric, suspenseful and beautifully written read here that is so vividly descriptive and absolutely mesmerizing. The descriptions of the marsh and everything that it entails pertains so meaningfully to this story. Unlike Kya, I just wish that it didn’t take me as long to come to that realization of how meaningful the marsh was to her whole being and story. *Traveling Friends Read* This was an awesome group read with an absolutely wonderful discussion and with the help from Brenda and our Traveling Friends I was able to fully enjoy this novel! Thank you friends! Norma’s Stats: Cover: Eye-catching, beautiful, and an extremely fitting representation to storyline. Title: Fits the story so well and love how it plays so meaningfully into the story. I also really enjoyed the few lines in the book that referred to the title. Writing/Prose: Well-written, lovely, eloquent, and engaging. Plot: Entertaining, thought-provoking, captivating, steady-paced, held my attention and extremely enjoyable. Even though I had some reservations with the third person narrative it did not take away my enjoyment for the story. Ending: Bittersweet, powerful, rewarding, and very satisfying. Overall: An outstanding, emotional, memorable, and heartfelt read! Would highly recommend! I received an advanced copy of this book from G.P. Putnam’s Sons through Edelweiss.

5 trilling stars to Where the Crawdads Sing! 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 I am super excited to share this review with you because the book is on my favorites list for this year. The writing is lovely, and the storytelling is brilliant. Barclay Cove is a quiet place along the North Carolina coast. I tried to imagine this setting and time period, as someone familiar with the area, and I could not quite fit where it was in reality; however, using the author’s extraordinary gift for description without being overly flowery, in my imagination, I can perfectly picture the mysterious marsh. The book begins with the story of Kya, a young girl whose mother walks out on the family, leaving the children to fend for themselves with an alcoholic father who is absent most of the time. Not to mention the fact that they live in the inhospitable marsh as squatters (there are, indeed, small settlements on the North Carolina coast today that were founded my “squatters”). Kya’s siblings are older, and they flee, leaving her alone with her father. She learns to care for herself at a young age because she has to. Kya is uneducated by choice and circumstance, though the town attempted to get her to attend at first. Even without schooling, she is sharp and caring, as she learns the ways of life through the marsh and all it has to teach her. For years, Kya lives this way and is known as the “Marsh Girl” by the townies. When a young man of the same age is found dead, everyone in town assumes it must have been Kya, and fingers are pointed. She has been involved with two young men who were entranced with her, but was Kya involved in the death of Chase Andrews? Where the Crawdads Sing is a glorious and equally somber coming of age story for Kya. Though she was called to a different life from the one she has always known, how much will her upbringing continue to control who she is? The writing is exquisite, the setting atmospheric on a grand scale, and Kya is a strong and unforgettable character I wanted to hug. Overall, I simply adored this book. I was immersed completely in Kya’s vibrant world, and my heart ached at every turn. The ending is memorable, and the messages are strong. Beautiful nature and a captivating story. Thank you to G.P. Putnam’s Sons for the ARC. All opinions are my own. My reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com

“Autumn leaves don't fall, they fly. They take their time and wander on this their only chance to soar.” For years, rumors of the “Marsh Girl” haunted Barkley Cove, a quiet fishing village. Kya Clark is barefoot and wild; unfit for polite society. But Kya is not what they say. Kya—a young girl who has been abandoned by her parents, siblings, and the entire society, lives on the outskirts of town, in the Marsh, where she is judged & ridiculed. Having attended just one day of school, she takes life's lessons from the land, learning the real ways of the world while living in solitude forever. WHERE THE CRAWDADS SING is an incredible story of fearless Kya while she carves her own life path. Where the Crawdads Sing is a story of survival, hope, love, loss, loneliness, determination, and strength. I wasn’t really sure what to expect when I went into this book and it turned out to be one of the most compelling stories I’ve read in a long time. This was a story of survival against all odds, of love and loss, of grief and happiness, of prejudices and relationships, and discovering your true self. “If anyone would understand loneliness, the moon would.” This book is so poetic and beautifully written, that it just draws you in with the flow. The beautiful prose and the use of imagery are so to the point that you are automatically transported to the marshes where you can see the gulls, feel the sea wave, and feel the sand beneath your feet. The story is charmingly written and immensely readable. The book was perfectly paced and jumps back and forth in time without missing a beat. If I have to nitpick, the secondary plotline didn’t work for me and disrupted the flow of the story, like a speed breaker. Thankfully, it didn’t ruin my reading experience. As soon as the book starts, you are a part of Kya’s life and immersed in her self-contained world. You experience her moments of sorrow, her fleeting moments of happiness, her triumphs and heartbreaks, all of it. Another thing that takes the book to another level are the characters. Kya, Tate, Jumpin', Jodie, all are exquisitely crafted. I loved the main character of Kya. It was so interesting to watch Kya grow up without a family and deal with the world. Her amazing journey and interactions are at the heart of the book and Owens gets it perfectly right. The characters spoke in their own dialect which adds a layer of authenticity to the story. Overall, Where the Crawdads Sing is a compelling and emotional story, spectacularly written and richly detailed with a descriptive atmosphere and realistic characters. There are many heartbreaking moments in this book that will stay with you long after the story is over. This book will make you smile, it will make you emotional, at times it will break your heart and it will make you care for the characters like they are your own. I wish really the book could have gone on and on, as I never wanted the story to end. Many thanks to the publisher's Penguin Publishing Group and Edelweiss for the ARC.

This is another of those highly rated books that I was going to pass on. Kid grows up in a marsh? Lots of talk of feathers and grasses and algae? Um… But I read Diane S.’s review. When Diane awards 5 stars, I have to listen. I reluctantly put it on my list. I checked my library’s Libby App. I would be number 1752 in line. That sounded pretty safe, so I signed up. Eight months went by, and suddenly I was number one when the library obtained several hundred more copies. I immediately went into defensive mode and put the book on indefinite hold. A couple of months later I read my buddy Barry’s review. Barry gave it 5 stars, which I wouldn’t have expected in a hundred years! OK, so Diane led me to water and Barry essentially forced me to drink. Barry told me he too had resisted it forever and finally went into it telling himself he could always DNF it. That made him feel safe, that he had an out. I listened to him and told him I would rethink it but would still probably hate it. I also told him that if I tried it, I would hold him responsible if I did hate it. He said he accepted that responsibility so what could I do? I read it. Boom. 5 stars. I was irreversibly hooked after about 6 %. The nature stuff is surprisingly engaging. The characters (the good guys anyway) are endearing. And what a profound coming-of-age character study this is. Though the plot is mostly character driven, I found it extraordinarily compelling and a fast read. This story is so atmospheric. I felt like I was there in the marsh with The Marsh Girl, Kya. I could feel the heat and the humidity, hear the gulls, smell the ocean, and see the beauty of nature. The writing is just superb. I’m not a poetry fan, but the snippets of poetry offered are touching and meaningful. The jumping back and forth in time is done so well—to me the technique heightens the suspense of the mystery. The epilogue is profoundly moving, and it made me cry. Not only that, I physically felt it in my heart—a very rare thing for a book to do for me. Look at all the 5-star reviews. Believe them. I also read the one and two stars reviews and while I certainly respect those reviews, I am happy I didn’t have those reactions to this book. If you have stalled like me and like Barry did, take a chance and give it a try. You can always DNF it. I take full responsibility if you hate it. Thanks to Hennepin County (MN) Public Library and the Libby App for the loan. Special thanks to Delia Owens for writing this phenomenal book. Super special thanks to Diane S. and Barry.

This is an amazing first novel by this author! In the marsh land, near the North Carolina coast, the youngest child of a big, poor family is first left by her mother, her brother and later her father...she is such a little girl and left to fend for herself.... so heartbreaking! This story lets us follow her entire life, a life that is mostly very lonely. Part coming of age story, part love story, part mystery...these characters will really pull you in! I just loved it!! Thank you to Netgalley and G.P. Putnam’s Sons for the digital copy!

5 stars— I always worry when a book is selected by a celebrity for their book club or award because most of the time I don’t end up liking the book near as much as the celebrity did. However, all I can say about Reese Witherspoon’s recommendation of this book is “Thanks— you were right.” “Where the Crawdads Sing” sucks you into the story from the beginning as the author introduces the reader to the main character,Kya, as a young girl. Kya lives in an abusive home and circumstances cause her to basically raise herself by living off the land and scavenging. Although this might sound implausible, the author does a wonderful job putting the reader into the mind of Kya and soon you feel like you are living in the marsh with her. I found myself rooting for Kya to overcome all of her problems and to find happiness. Also, I must credit the author, her writing was beautiful ( much like early Anne Rivers Siddons). The mystery portion of the novel was also good but what the author didn’t tell the reader telegraphed what the final resolution to the mystery would be. That took away none of the enjoyment of the book for me, as the writing and character development was the best I have read since Pat Conroy. I hope Delia Owens has several more great books like this in her, if so she might just be the best Southern author writing today.

Mini-Review~ 4.5 STARS I finally got around to reading this uber popular book from last year. I really wasn't sure if this would be for me, but I ended up loving it, regardless of a few things that distracted me and parts I thought were highly improbable. Although there is a LOT going on in this one, I found it easy to follow. I was very emotionally invested in Kya's story and had a few theories about what would become of her ~ All were wrong! Loved the blend of mystery, murder, wilderness, nature, and the last twist- Never saw it coming! Published August 2018

Deep in the wilderness of Barkley Cove lives a woman named Catherine Daniel Clark. Most people know her as the marsh girl but those closest to her know her as Kya. She’s the youngest daughter in a family who slowly abandons her one by one. Young Kya thrives in the Marsh with the help of a local store owner (Jumpin) and Tate. Tate is four years older than Kya, but he has always loved and protected her. He teaches Kya to read/write and years down the road encourages her to publish her books on the creatures and plant life of the Marsh. One day a body is found in the Marsh and the townspeople suspect Kya is the killer. Will she lose the life she has built for herself or will the town find her innocent? This was a wonderful read. It’s a book that has everything: a coming of age story, a romance or two, a murder mystery and a reunion of lost family. Great book to take to the pool or beach. My only regret is how long it sat on my book shelf before I was able to read it! 😉

Thank you to Penguin Publishing Group who provided an advance reader copy via Edelweiss. This is a very special book about a girl named Catherine Danielle Clark (known as Kya) who lived in a shack in the Marsh lands of North Carolina. The story begins in 1952 when at the tender age of six, Kya's mom walked out of her life, never turning her head back to wave goodbye. As the days passed, her older siblings gradually left as well, leaving Kya alone to deal with her volatile father. Pa would leave the shack for days on end, then suddenly reappear without warning. Eventually, even he left for good. This left fourteen year old Kya to fend for herself. However, this very clever and resourceful girl drew upon memories of watching Mom cook and clean, and navigating the motor boat with her Dad. When Kya's Dad was still at home and she could spend a little money, a barefoot Kya roamed the aisles of the local Piggly Wiggly market to buy grits. However, once Dad abandoned her, Kya's survival instincts kicked in. Remembering a skill Mom taught her, Kya collected mussels when the tide was low. Filling two large bags, she boated to Jumpin's Gas and Bait to barter her first deal of mussels in exchange for money and gas (for the motor boat). Compassionate to the little girl's plight, Jumpin' and his wife Mabel donated care packages of clothing and other necessities as needed. Besides these friendships, Kya's only other friends were the treasured birds and animals of the Marsh. That is, until she met Tate. Tate was out boating at the same time as Kya when she lost direction. Tate kindly directed Kya home, and this was the first dawning of their relationship. Over time, they shared their love of nature (such as collecting various bird feathers) and he even taught Kya to read. Kya was known as "The Marsh Girl", a mysterious and undesirable being to be avoided. She only spent one day in school after being treated as an outcast. Used to being abandoned and now comfortable in her self-imposed isolation, Kya set about painting in watercolors marsh lifeforms, such as mushrooms, seabirds and grasses. Now that she could read, she could both document and illustrate her love of nature. This story also revolves around a possible murder, that of Chase Andrews. His body was discovered by two boys in 1969, and the mystery of his death and his involvement with Kya is a slowly unfolding drama in the book. Through alternating time periods, Kya's life and the truth of Chase Andrews' death weave an atmospheric, poignant and totally engaging story. Many thanks to my Goodreads friend Dorie whose beautiful review directed me to this fine book.

This series is at it again. Rapp is injected into a wild international ride that leads to a Russian/Syrian team that is about to unleash the most cynical, asymmetric attack on the Western world. He is coopted into the worst of situations because he owes a favor to a very bad guy who helped Rapp find a drug lord who didn’t want to be found but whom Rapp needed to pay a visit. Hoping to wipe the slate clean from this past debt doesn’t bode well for Rapp, and he winds up getting tossed to the wolves by none other than the Israelis, who hand him over to some very bad Syrians and, ultimately, a Russian General who is neither a friend of the West or his boss in Moscow. Worse, Washington will be no help, which is typical of his continuing fights against bad guys, so now the mission is up to him and his teammates. The ending is delightful and unexpected. This book is not only a page-turner but a must read. – Tom L.

First I would like to thank Kyle Mills. I don’t know many authors who could have continued the legacy of Vince Flynn and picked up the mantle of Mitch Rapp with more elegance and professionalism than Kyle has done. Kyle took one of the most beloved characters in this genre and grew Rapp even more and put him on a path that he is here today at the end of this book!! Code Red was a tour de force of Mitch Rapp with none stop action and some introspection. Kyle Mills really pulls out all the stops in his finale and leads us all the way to the last page wanting more and standing up and clapping that we can all see where he has brought Rapp and the Rapp universe and for that we are thankful!!

We have reached the end of an era! This is the last Mitch Rapp from Kyle Mills... Code Red is in my mind one of the best he ever wrote. Don't you worry now, there is a new guy taking over the series. Maybe you have heard of him? It's Don Bentley, I am sure he will do a great job of it. In this one Mitch is in a difficult situation. He ows a favor to a really dangerous criminal and he needs Rapp to help him out in Syria. I found the book well written as we all expect from this author. I really enjoyed reading about Mitch going undercover as a man not used to violence and trying not to show that he does now how to shoot and fight. It is also funny seing him trying to balance work with some form of family life, he should be taken of the frontlines and given another role but there is no replacement figure groomed for the part of taking over which I would love to see, like Stan training Mitch in the beginning of his career. This is a problem not only with this series but with many more out there. When the series passes a certain number of books and the age of the main character is getting up in age. I know we all love our heroes but it sometimes gets a little too much. Don't get me wrong I love this series and it's not the worst. Connellys Bosch served in Vietnam? Or take a look at Spenser by Robert Parker. I still recommend this book for all fans of thrillers and I can't wait to see what will happen next. I must thank Atria Books, Netgalley and most of all James B. Apt for his kindness in helping me get a physical copy of this book. I am a proud first time Mitch Rapp ambassador.

This book is another one that nightmares are made of. A terrorist using narcotics that have been manipulated to cause the most severe addiction ever seen and eventual permanent psychosis of everyone who takes it. Something like this in the real world would be catastrophic. And the reality is that it could happen. Every time I read one of Kyle Mill’s books, I can’t stop thinking about it long after I have finished it. I worry that one day, one of these horrible scenarios will come true and our only hope is that there are real Mitch Rapp’s in the world that will help to prevent this. I do want to say that this book was extremely violent at points and that it’s not for someone who struggles to read about the harsh realities of the world. I honestly could have read this all in one day, but I have had so much going on. I am sooo sad that this will be Kyle Mills last Mitch Rapp book. I hope that the guy taking over can keep up the direction that he has taken this series.

In his last Mitch Rapp adventure, Mills continues to shine with this latest installment. The threat is major, and Rapp as usual rises to meet the danger and thwart his enemies. Simply put, Mills and Rapp deliver once again.

ARC Book Review – Vince Flynn Code Red – Kyle Mills The plot and storyline of author Kyle Mills’ last Vince Flynn Mitch Rapp novel, “Code Red” was sufficiently satisfying! Mills concludes his stint with the series with a ‘slam dunk’ espionage thriller that is ‘top notch.’ It is bittersweet in seeing Mills leave, but I am especially elated to know that author Don Bentley will be following behind him in continuing the Mitch Rapp series. Mills pens another terrific Mitch Rapp action thriller in Code Red. In repaying a debt to a ‘not-so-nice’ drug lord, Rapp honors his word and puts everything – including his life and his family – on the line to ante up on the debt. During the unsanctioned mission, Rapp finds out that the Russians are planning on using a new and powerful drug as a weapon against the West and Rapp must stop their devious plan before millions of people are killed. Rapps actions and reactions in this narrative are remarkable! Mills continued to progress the Rapp character even after so many books. Mills demonstrated Rapp’s usual ‘badassery,’ his subtle vulnerabilities, and his clever mindset – in a full range of impressive main character capabilities and competences. Laced with explosive action, intellectual plotting, and suspenseful storytelling, Code Red was a fitting conclusion to Kyle Mills’ tenure with the legendary Mitch Rapp series. Special thank you to Emily Bestler Books / Atria and author Kyle Mills for the opportunity to advance read Vince Flynn’s Code Red. I am honored to be a Mitch Rapp Ambassador and look forward to continuing my reading admiration of one of the best action thriller characters in the thriller genre. Good luck Don Bentley, you’re going to do great as well!

Good, but definitely not the best Mitch Rapp book. It sometimes felt like the author pulled punches with the storyline. I listened to it on audible and the narrator (Steven Webber) did a good job, but it wasn’t the same as George Guidall. Mr. Webber read Stephen King’s It and he did a great job with this novel.

More wonderful adventures in out of the way places with explosions and evil in abundance and rearing its head. Rapp and the gang have to cleanup some bad stains on society and the world.

Another amazing Mitch Rapp novel that was a fun easy read I was excited to read this one with it being the last one by Kyle Mills he has done an amazing job with the series after he took over and this one did not disappoint it’s fun to continue to see how Rapp has evolved as his story continues and how Claudia and Anna have definitely changed him I can’t wait to see where the next book and author take him I definitely recommend this book and the series

As a #Mitch Rapp Ambassador, I was fortunate to get an Advanced Readers Copy (ARC) of Code Red. This is the last installment for Kyle Mills, who took over the series after Vince Flynn passed away. Don Bentley will be taking the reigns in 2024. Mills has done a superb job in taking over my favorite series, and in Code Red, he has done it again. Damien Losa helped Mitch Rapp and called in his favor. He is sending Mitch into war-torn Syria to gather Intel for the Drug Cartel boss about a new drug entering into Europe that will cut into Losa's territory. While everyone is trying to flee Syria, Rapp is going in. Once there, though, he realizes the Syrian government is not the problem, and he unravels a bigger threat to the US than what Damien Losa is worried about. Thank you Kyle Mills for continuing my favorite series, and good luck in the future. Can't wait for you to continue Fade series. Looking forward to seeing where Don Bentley will take Mitch next.

Rapp and Coleman face off against the Mexcican drug cartels, Russians and Syrians. what more could you ask for?

I love this series and look forward to a new book every year. This one did not disappoint.

Hey Fellas Hope you’ll having a productive week so far. This week I’ve completed Code Red a Mitch Rapp novel written by Kyle Mills. Those who don’t know this is the last novel written by Kyle Mills and he has already passed the torch to Don Bentley who himself a awesome author in thriller genre on par with some of the big names. In this novel Mitch Rapp was tasked to find about a new drug that’s been exported from Syria for a marker that has been given to Damian Losa in previous novel. In Syria as usual Rapp finds trouble in each and every corner and not so surprised to find that the whole debacle was the result of Russia not Syrian Government. With the help of Scott Coleman and his team how Rapp utterly destroys the Russia’s plan once again what happens in the rest of the story. Some of the positives of this novel that I missed in some of the previous novels are intricate planning and large scale action scenes that involve Rapp on sync with Scott Coleman and his boys, Callbacks from previous novels about the Mighty Mitch Rapp the devil who gives nightmares to his enemies and finally his thoughts of how he is going to spend his rest of his life after so many debacles ranging from authoritarian governments, Cartel Leaders even a utterly despicable American President. First, I like to thank Kyle Mills for continuing the legacy of Vince Flynn for the last 10 years. Personally I was introduced to Vince Flynn post his death and for the first time while reading The Survivor I was surprised that the novel was just like how Vince will write unlike Tom Clancy novels which are totally different from the previous ones. The way Kyle took Rapp to the next level was treat to read and at the same time developing Rapp’s character arc on par with Vince’s version by giving his own twist was awesome. Mitch Rapp attained this mythical state not only in novels but in general was because of his Villains and their devious plans to destroy him. Vince wrote some of the best villains in the genre especially his way of portraying Politicians as cunning as possible was breath of a fresh air unlike the caricaturish ones so far I’ve read in other series. Kyle managed to achieve this status by giving some of the best villains and grey tinged supporting characters which kind of kept us guessing whether they will help Rapp or not. Each and every novel Kyle wrote something unique like Final Assassination scene in The Survivor, Scott Coleman’s near death duel with Azarov in The Order to Kill and my most favorite is making Mitch Rapp to team up with some worst enemies in Enemy of the State which I really thought the Rapp’s version of Suicide Squad. Also Kyle wrote some of the most violent and bloody scenes of Rapp such as the bloody execution of American ISIS recruit in Pakistan or killing a sicario and using his femur bone to pick the lock in Lethal Agent. Thanks for writing this amazing novels for us. As much as I enjoyed his works last 3 novels was not on par with his previous works but thanks to No Limits Mitch Rapp podcast I came to understand that Kyle initially planned something different but due to some issues he couldn’t write it. Not that those works of his was bad but compared to his own previous works everything felt too random be the individual character’s arc or even the story itself. I personally think that Mitch Rapp is currently in God Mode because what ever Kyle throws at him we as readers know he is going to overcome it somehow. I really thought that Cook is going to be the one of the biggest threat to Rapp but at the end he too was fizzled out likewise Mike’s betrayal was a shocker still that dividend didn’t help that story even though his arc was perfectly written to match his betrayal. Compared to this I enjoyed Code Red because it felt a kind of side mission in a game enjoyable yet not fully satisfied. Now the ball is in Don Bentley’s court and I’m eager to see how he is going to make Mitch Rapp into mere mortal again without reducing his power. Quite a challenge for him but the people who know me knows that I’ve immense respect for him because he single-handedly changed the Jack Ryan Jr novels all together with commendable character arc which surprised me so much. So once again thank you Kyle Mills for your works and Welcome Don We’re eagerly waiting to see what you’re cooking.

One of the best books I have read in this series. Great story.

Great ending to the Kyle Mills stories of Mitch Rapp

Kyle Mills is moving on ? What ?? Meanwhile, Mitch Rapp and his team ably coordinated by Scott Coleman tear an adventurous swath across Syria. A Russian military genius, a drug cartel leader, a vicious new pill, and the politics of Russia all play significant roles. The action ramps up from Mitch the negotiator (?!) to a full blown explosive conclusion. Following in Vince Flynn’s authorial footsteps, Mills has done an amazing job of keeping Rapp true to his core while stretching his image. This is another entertaining read.

First and foremost, thank you Kyle Mills for your stewardship of the Mitch Rapp universe while at the helm. You have done an amazing job breathing your life and fire into the characters and stories, while expanding on the work and dreams of Vince Flynn. Kudos to you, and best wishes as you continue telling your stories. Code Red is a gritty thriller, that could easily be ripped from the headlines of the current news cycle. It also has a strong connection and vibe of Vince Flynn's Mitch Rapp. Damian Losa, one of the world's most powerful drug kingpins has a marker from Mitch Rapp, and it is time for the debt to be repaid. Mitch is sent on an unsanctioned mission into Syria as an emissary of Losa. He is on a solo mission that could easily lead to his death. Without the backup intelligence and resources of the CIA, or his friends and team, Rapp is smuggled across the border into Syria to try and gather intelligence on a new drug that is being produced and distributed, encroaching on Losa's domain and confounding his scientists. As Rapp tugs on threads and things start to unravel, the picture isn't anything anyone had anticipated! The results are an even greater threat to not only Rapp, but to Europe and ultimately the United States. This is a throwback in the sense of Rapp as a solo operator, but Mitch is wiser and has years of hard earned experience and honed intuition on his side, and possibly some remaining luck. Kyle Mills leaves a solid exclamation point on his tenure as author of the series. In no easy feat, he has given the world one of the best novels in the entire series. This is a fast paced thriller that expertly keeps readers enthralled and moving from chapter to chapter. There are no good stopping points thereby compelling readers to continue on. The brilliance of it all is that as a reader I didn't want to stop, even for food, sleep, or work. Be prepared to have a day or two you can devote to reading. It will be a challenge to savor the first time through, but do it. Enjoy the experience as it unfolds. Thank you to Emily Bestler, David Brown (@AtriaMysteryBus), the rest of the team at Atria/Simon Schuster, as well as James, the man behind the curtain at VinceFlynn.com. It is an honor to once again be part of the Mitch Rapp Ambassador program, which includes a free advance copy in exchange for my feedback and reviews. It is a wonderful and unparalleled program.

I’ve read all the books in Vince Flynn’s Mitch Rapp series, including those authored by Kyle Mills. CODE RED is the last Mitch Rapp book that Kyle Mills is writing (unless something happens in the future). I’ve enjoyed all of the books, which are not only highly readable, but have great characters and storylines. CODE RED is no exception, and Mills delivers! It is a page-turner that keeps the reader’s attention from page 1. If you are a fan of thrillers, CODE RED is a must read and you won’t be disappointed!

I was lucky enough to be selected as a Mitch Rapp Ambassador again, and was very happy to have gotten the chance to read the ARC for this upcoming novel. Author Kyle Mills is stepping away from the series after carrying on Vince’s legacy and delivering now 9 spectacular novels, growing the Rappverse and delighting fans. In his final foray, he goes out, like our hero, with guns blazing and doesn’t hold back. Starting off with the premise that Rapp is paying back a debt to the leader of a drug cartel, Mitch finds himself in Syria thinking that he’s negotiating with the government only to find things taking several turns including betrayal, treachery, and of course some Russian meddling. Great story, intriguing plot, and overall fun adventure. I can’t put into words why but the line about rainbows & unicorns in context of the background may be one of, if not my favorite in the novel. Nailed the delivery on this, excellent pacing, and superb ending for your run on the series.

In his efforts to save Claudia and Anna Gould, in the previous book, "Oath of Loyalty," Mitch Rapp owes one of the most powerful drug lords a favor...In "Code Red," Damian Losa asks Mitch to act as his emissary to strike a deal with a rival drug organization with a new drug line in Syria...Disguised as a Canadian lawyer, Rapp's mission has him falling squarely in the middle of a dangerous Russian operation, the continuing Syrian Civil War, Middle East politics, Jihadists and the operations of one of the World's largest drug operations...Serious fun ensues as Mitch and his operators work to resolve these clashing forces...Fun Stuff as always, and Kyle Mills final efforts as a Vince Flynn Legacy Author will remain appreciated!

** spoiler alert ** I had the privilege of receiving an ARC of this book, and subsequently delved into the audiobook upon its release, allowing me to present a comprehensive review.* **Part 1: The Riveting Tale** The narrative weaved by Kyle Mills is nothing short of exceptional. Mitch Rapp's portrayal as a one-man army, facing off against adversaries who believe they're up against an entire nation or criminal syndicate, only to discover they're facing a lone lawyer, was a masterstroke. It felt like there was an invisible shield guarding this lawyer. The dynamics of Rapp as both a lone wolf and a part of a formidable team at different points in the story provided a thrilling balance. The build-up to the raid on the compound felt akin to a classic A-Team episode, with the only absence being the iconic music montage. Kadir’s character was a standout. Mills expertly depicted his psyche and unwavering dedication to vengeance. While the emotions of Rapp regarding sending him to his potential demise were touched upon, there was room for a deeper exploration, particularly during the truck explosion scene. **Part 2: Audiobook Apprehensions** Transitioning to the audiobook, I realized the narration was a crucial element I hadn't anticipated missing George Guidall. While Steven Weber's performance was commendable, I couldn't quite immerse myself in his portrayal of Mitch Rapp or Scott Coleman. The use of accents, while a thoughtful touch, at times felt a tad disjointed from the story and the series as a whole. **Part 3: Expectations for Kyle Mills' Final Bow** Given that this was Kyle Mills' final contribution, I was anticipating a seismic shift. Perhaps a cliffhanger that Don Bentley would pick up, or, given Bentley's track record with PTSD writing in the Matt Drake series, an exploration of Mitch grappling with the aftermath of this story. I couldn't help but ponder the potential ramifications on characters like Claudia, Scott, or Irene (and, admittedly, apprehensively avoiding thoughts about Anna). **In Gratitude and Conclusion** Before I conclude, I'd be remiss not to extend my heartfelt thanks to Kyle Mills for not only taking the reins of the Mitch Rapp universe but for steering it into new and thrilling directions. Equally, I extend my gratitude to his editor, Emily Bestler, and publicist, David Brown, for their instrumental role in ensuring the series continues to thrive. In summary, "Code Red" is unequivocally a 5-star read, delivering on every front. My only anticipation, and not as a critique but rather a personal curiosity, was for a more pronounced shift in the series' trajectory. I wholeheartedly recommend this book to any thriller enthusiast, whether or not they're familiar with the Mitch Rapp universe. It stands tall as a gripping standalone narrative.

I'm not even sure where to start this review. First things first, the author's foreword made me sad. Mr. Mills talks about the "end" of the Mitch Rapp era and my first thought was "oh no, I'm not ready for it to be over". But, thankfully, I'm thinking that it isn't....yet. I have no clue when the end might be....but I am going to hang on until the very end. I have many favorite "characters" in this genre... Courtland Gentry- The Gray Man (my next favorite) Evan Smoak - Orphan X - another close tie for me.... Scot Harvath James Reece- Pike Logan Dewey Andreas Jonathan Grave David Slaton John Rain So yes, there are many AMAZING characters in this genre. Yet somehow, for some reason....Mitch Rapp has ALWAYS been my favorite. I know that realistically this series cannot go on forever and with the death of Vince Flynn, I thought that was it. But imagine my surprise when Kyle Mills stepped in and somehow not only was able to continue the series, but was able to continue it in the way that I think Mr. Flynn would have wanted. So- as we come to the near end of this series, I am beyond thrilled to be a part of it. I am grateful for every new book that comes out and I will be grateful until the very end. Let me be clear. In my opinion, there has not been any degradation in the writing, and every book that comes out is up to the scale that is expected. Yet, I am clinging to this series and am hoping for JUST ONE MORE.... This book has Mitch and gang in the Middle East, but not for the reason's we have come to expect. We have moved away from the war, and we are now dealing with the remnants of people and places left where there used to be conflicts. This was a great book that touched on new and intriguing ways that things can still affect the US. Bravo. Another great book. I will be patiently waiting for the next (hopefully several?) books....

This might take a few more words than usual because I really liked this book. My favourite parts were when the author gave his opinion on some governments (" ...a cross between the Three Stooges and Dr. Evil...") and the realistic if somewhat cynical view of global drug addiction. The phrases "the explosion of hunger for opioids" for example that led to the reaction:" Conservatives would demonstrate little sympathy for the addicts and their long-term care. In contrast, liberals would expend unsustainable levels of resources on them...". This is all too familiar to anyone who follows the news. The story itself is an exciting romp worthy of Saturday Horse Opera serials of old. There are betrayals, ambushes, lots of things exploding and other surprises that will keep the reader turning pages late into the night. I absolutely loved this one.

And that’s a wrap!!! That is, Red Code is the ninth and final installment in the Mitch Rapp series authored by Kyle Mills. Kudos to Mr. Mills for faithfully continuing the legacy of Vince Flynn’s creation. Red Code is a “ripped from the headlines” plot using a designer drug as a weapon to destroy - if not decimate- civilization, specifically the USA and Europe. Russia’s asymmetrical warfare is intriguing, fascinating, and perhaps all too authentic and relevant. Mr. Mills gives insight on the fragility of democracy and how perpetrating chaos can easily destroy it. The scenarios he writes seem like he has a crystal ball! 😱 Scary and thought-provoking. Code Red is a another satisfying and thrilling tale of Mitch Rapp’s adventures. My one regret is that I would have enjoyed a longer one!

Code Red is the 22nd book in the long-running Mitch Rapp series of novels started by Vince Flynn in the late 1990s and continued by Kyle Mills after Flynn's death in 2013. This is Mills' 8th (and final) book in the series, including the book that was started by Flynn and finished by Mills. This book is partly a continuation of the story from the prior novels and partly a reset of the storyline. In this book, Damien Losa, the cartel kingpin, calls in the favor that Mitch owes him, specifically to investigate a drug originating in Syria and threatening Losa's European network. Of course, things go sideways pretty early on, and as the cover of the book implies, Rapp discovers that the drugs are a part of a Russian plot. The hardcover version of the book is just over 330 pages, which is similar in length to Mills' other contributions to the series. It has a good blend of action and suspense. Some of the main characters get pushed to the side for most of the book, but by the end, most of the characters you expect to make an appearance do appear. The book is a quick read, and chances are most fast readers will be able to finish it in a day or two, at most. It is a good swan song for Mills' contribution to the Rapp series and sets up possible future storylines well. It is absolutely worth the time to read.

Before reading this novel, I had read that Mills was done with writing for Flynn. I think my initial idea was that the character Mitch Rapp was going to be no more, too, but thankfully, that's not the case. Mills seamlessly took over Flynn's character. I miss and am saddened by the death of such a young man (he was barely older than me), but Mills did a great job. This book could have easily been read in a few hours. I had to make myself put it aside to stretch it out. A quick, engrossing read. I'm looking forward to the next writer's work on Rapp.

CC1 As always Kyle did another fantastic job with this chapter in the Mitch Rapp series. Sorry to see him moving on. He has done an amazing job on the series. Vince would be so proud of what he has done. Can't to see what Don Bentley does with series. 20 🌟 plus!!! Thanks Carl Clause

Another can’t miss book by Kyle Mills, his last Mitch Rapp did not disappoint. The right amount of action to include great suspense and storytelling. Mitch delivers another masterpiece to protect America and his interest. The way Kyle writes you always feel tight in the middle of the story and area the book takes place in.

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. I'm so sad that Kyle Mills won't be carrying on with the Mitch Rapp novel series. He has been amazing every page of every book he's written for the late Vince Flynn's estate and he'll be missed. That said, talk about going out with a bang. A sensational, unforgettable farewell to the franchise.

Rapp once needed the help of a drug lord and now that man has demanded Rapp pay back the debt. He is tasked with going to Syria to get information from a Soviet general who is producing a drug that could prove to be the most lethal ever made. Knowing he could be walking into a trap, Mitch heads to Syria with only a briefcase and a great pair of shoes!

Was lucky enough to be selected as a Mitch Rapp Ambassador and receive an early copy of the book. Another great Mitch Rapp novel - a few twists along the way and action that keeps you on the edge of your seat. Seeing the evolution of the character throughout the series has been so well done. Great way for Kyle to end his Rapp journey. He did a great job at taking over a seemingly impossible task of picking up the universe that Vince started and excited to see what the new adventures with Don look like.

Realities of a difficult world with lots bin of new evils Rapp ventures into a nest of bad guys (countries) left after the US tired of mucking up the middle east. Competing drug cartels and corrupt states collide further victimizing innocents trapped in the cross fire. As Rapp gets his arms around what and who is the nexus of the evil, action Ramps up to solve the problem. An excellent tight story that keeps you engaged right to the end.

Another great one. I love the Mitch Rapp books. I know its fiction, but it makes me feel good when the bad guys get taken down, not like the real world

Great finish to Kyle Mills work on series. Looking forward to watching what he does next.. maybe a series with a tough guy character named Rich Mapp.

Another outstanding Mitch Rapp adventure! This final performance by Kyle Mills should be a movie script. Full of action, as usual, and great work by Rapp, Coleman and the whole team. Don Bentley has huge shoes to fill as he takes over this series, but hopefully they’ll be as comfortable for him as the ones Rapp wore in this story.

What the heck did I just read?! I was tense, on the edge of my seat (okay, I’m lying—I was already on the floor, scrambling to pick up my dropped jaw), breathless, nail-less, and utterly captivated until the final page of this book, simmering with mounting pressure! Lisa Jewell has done it again! She’s written another brilliant thriller that instantly gets my vote for the Goodreads Choice Awards as the best thriller of the year! This time, she’s given us one of the most detestable villains I’ve ever read. This new antagonist made my fists itch—I wanted to spit at the character and regularly punch him! I lost count of how many times I cursed him with every horrible thing he did, only for him to outdo himself a few chapters later with something even worse! I kept waiting for justice, and as the latest twists hit me like a slap in the face, I couldn’t stop wondering: What if he gets away with it again?! I won’t spoil the experience for you, but I can honestly say that while the story starts off a little slow, it quickly becomes one of Lisa Jewell’s best books—a guaranteed mind-blower! And the scariest part of it all? Villains like this one could easily exist in real life. With their perfect faces, flawless bodies, charming manners, and their ability to hide behind a façade, they’re like wolves in sheep’s clothing. Everything in this book could actually happen, making this villain even more terrifying. A Quick Recap This whirlwind, smartly executed, twisty mystery begins with the tragic death of Paddy Swann, a highly successful restaurateur, who is pushed into the path of an oncoming train by a schizophrenic man in his early thirties. Paddy leaves behind his 53-year-old wife, Nina; his problematic daughter, Aisling (Ash), in her mid-twenties, who has returned home after a psychological breakdown; and his son, Arlo, in his early twenties. After Paddy’s funeral, Nina receives a note and a package from a man named Nick Radcliffe, who claims to be Paddy’s former colleague. Along with the note, he sends her a lighter that once belonged to Paddy. Nick’s words are so sincere and kind that even Ash is impressed and encourages her mom to write back. What Nina doesn’t expect is that this man—described as a “silver fox” reminiscent of Patrick Dempsey’s McDreamy—will eventually turn their correspondence into a romantic relationship, beginning a year after Paddy’s death. Meanwhile, the second storyline follows Martha, in her early fifties, is a florist raising two teenage sons from her previous marriage and a baby girl she gave birth to at 47. She’s also struggling in her marriage to Al, whose demanding job keeps him constantly traveling, unreachable, and emotionally distant. Despite working hard, they’re always short on money, and their relationship seems to be falling apart under the weight of secrets and unspoken issues. As the storylines intertwine, the revelations are heart-stopping, jaw-dropping, and utterly unpredictable. Just when you think the plot couldn’t possibly go any further, it does—and you’ll find yourself nodding in reluctant agreement, thinking, Okay, yes, it could actually happen. Overall Thoughts Gripping, flawlessly executed, and packed with heart-throbbing intensity, this domestic thriller is one I highly recommend! I’ve already declared it the best thriller/mystery of the year. Don’t even think about missing it—order your copy ASAP! Special Thanks: Many thanks to NetGalley and Atria Books for providing this fantastic thriller’s digital review copy in exchange for my honest thoughts. medium.com instagram facebook twitter

Don’t hate me, but I am lucky enough to have read an early copy of Lisa’s new psychological thriller Don’t Let Him In and if you loved None of This is True and thought that was dark, then this one will blow your mind! Lisa has finally embraced the darker side of domestic noir/psychological thrillers and I personally didn’t think it was possible to go any darker, but I am thrilled that she has crossed that line and created a deliciously, disturbing and dark tale of obsession. Don’t Let Him In is the tale of three women. Nina, recently widowed, when her beloved husband was pushed in front of a train, Ash, his devoted daughter who has moved home after suffering a mental breakdown and losing her job and Martha, who juggles her busy life with a new baby, 2 boys from her first marriage, running a busy florist whilst her new husband travels all the time for work. These women are all connected but don’t know why or how, until something happens which puts them all in danger. I don’t want to say too much about the storyline, because there are so many twists and turns that you need to read this for yourself and discover the secrets page by page. I read this book in ONE sitting (admittedly I was on a 12 hour flight at the time), but I absolutely LOVED and DEVOURED this book. It was fun, exciting, dark, devious, cunning, clever, menacing and very, very disturbing. 5 huge stars from me.

5 stars! Loved it! My favourite thriller by this author! One sneaky, conniving, manipulative man. Multiple women open their doors and hearts to him. Over time, cracks start to form in his scheming plans. This book was fantastic! I was completely gripped and engrossed in every word from start to finish. It’s the type of story where I “loved to hate” the main character. His deplorable ways were so fascinating and entertaining to follow. I found myself continually shocked and reading with my jaw dropping at how one person could rationalize manipulation the way he did. The sense of entitlement was mind blowing and the snarky inner thoughts were so well written. I was highly entertained by this fictional story, but it also made me worried to know people like this actually exist in the world and take constant advantage of others. While I’d like to think that many of the situations and discussions that happened within these pages were far fetched, I know these things do actually happen in real life. Sometimes people are so desperate for a relationship to work, that they are willing to overlook obvious issues. Perhaps this book could actually help some people notice red flags? The bottom line for me with this book is that I was 100% entertained from first to last page and that’s exactly what every reader yearns for. This earned 5 strong stars from me and is my favourite thriller by this author! Thank you to the publisher for my review copy!

it has been a very, very long time since a thriller has made me feel this way. it had me staying up late, sitting for hours, canceling plans - this book is that GURL. by far my favorite Lisa book yet (which says a lot because she’s probably my favorite thriller/mystery author out of them all). if you looked up the word gaslight in the dictionary there would be a link to purchase this book. this book is off its ROCKER. you get to know a few women but mostly pay attention to 3 main ones. as you go back and forth between their lives and POVs you also get to meet a man that ends up connecting all of them. just read and see & go into it as blind as you can! this book doesn’t come out until the summer so want to keep my review short and spoiler free. go into it blind. expect all the emotions - it’s a really good one. thank you publishers and netgalley for an ARC ❣️ i will be shocked if this is not my favorite thriller for 2025!

5⭐️ Lisa Jewell has written a page turning edge of your seat thriller with this one! I couldn’t put it down! At first it seems the chapters are a little disjointed, but it all starts to come together perfectly! The story unfolds as Paddy, the father of Ash Swann is laid to rest after being murdered. Enter handsome Nick, long lost friend of Paddy, charming, caring, attentive. Soon Paddy’s widow Nina is smitten, but Ash senses something not quite right. It’s soon revealed Nick holds many dark secrets! I wanted him to get found out so bad. Without spoiling anything, he is such a psycho! The writing and twists are perfect! I loved the ending and would love a sequel! Thank you NetGalley and Atria Books for the eARC in exchange for my honest review

Thank you NetGalley and Atria Books for the opportunity to read and review this ARC in exchange for an honest review. Lisa Jewell is the queen of thrillers. She always has me on the edge of my seat, taking hold of me from page one and not letting go until the very end. Don’t Let Him In was no exception. What an emotional roller coaster!! Nina never thought she would recover from the death of her husband until Nick came along. Her daughter Ash doesn’t trust him one bit. Martha’s husband Al is always gone working and yet they never have enough money. She’s suspicious of him. I wanted to reach into my kindle and strangle that man! He was so manipulative and vile!! I wanted to scream at some people to see what was happening right in front of their faces. Such a good read! 4.5 stars rounded up

Say "I DO" to this "DON'T" book if you: * Enjoy propulsive domestic dramas about psychopathic, unscrupulous, and manipulative men. * Are not fearful of suffering from whiplash from the book's emotionally pulverizing twists Author Lisa Jewell's first-person portrayal of a man who's been scamming intelligent women for 30 years of his adult life was brilliant. It's an insightful and disturbing look inside the mind of a charming con man and his victims. Think "Dirty John". Since the role of the male protagonist was written in the first person, readers gain insight into his true thoughts when he is lying, manipulating, and spinning ridiculous webs of lies to explain absences and bizarre behaviors The book unfolded from multiple POVs in different timelines and, occasionally, was disjointed (sooo many scammed women!). Even though I guessed the book's final twist, it was jolting. I listened to the audiobook narrated by Richard Armitage, Joanne Froggatt, Tamaryn Payne, Gemma Whelan, Louise Brealey, and Patience Tomlinson. I always enjoy full-cast narrations, and all narrators gave outstanding performances.

BRAVO! These were the words that erupted from my gaping lips as I turned the very last page of Don't Let Him In, by Lisa Jewell. You are going to have to read this one to believe it. You will be by turns bemused and then outraged by the depravity of the male protagonist in this story. We humans can be so gullible. We want it all: the fairy tale romance, the palatial mansion, a limitless reserve of cash, and a happily ever after ending. There are several women in this story who will tell you a very strange and complicated story about a very dashing man who made each of them believe that she was the center of his universe... until he mysteriously disappeared as abruptly as he had entered their individual lives. Invariably, he left his victims saddled with a massive legacy of debt, lies and heartbreak. As a reader, I felt great sympathy for each of this terrible man's hapless victims. Which of us hasn't been disappointed or emotionally conned by someone we thought truly cared for us? Was this fiendish man ever going to be brought to justice?!?! Lisa Jewell has penned an enthralling story, full of twists and turns and surprise reveals. I had a hard time putting this thriller down. Highly recommended! My thanks to the author, Lisa Jewell, her publisher and NetGalley for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an honest review. 5 out of 5 action-packed and jaw-dropping stars!

Yes ma'am, she's is back!!! After taking '24 off from her usual thriller/suspense novels in order to write a Marvel novel, LISA JEWLL IS BACK and in fine form in '25 with another fantastic thriller, and it could very well be her best one yet! This story is about a charming but manipulative predator and the web of lives he disrupts. The story beings with Ash, still reeling from the sudden loss of her father one year earlier to a horrific act and living at home with her grieving mother, when a mysterious man named Nick - an old acquaintance from her father's past - suddenly appears. He charms her mother almost instantly, but Ash can't shake the feeling that something isn't quite right. Is he really the perfect man he appears to be, or is there something more sinister beneath the surface? When Ash begins to dig into Nick's past she quickly discovers one unsettling truth after the next. Can she save her mother before it's too late? If you really love psychologically rich, character-driven domestic thrillers and love to hate antagonists, then you have come to right place with this novel - Alistair/Nick/Jonathan/Andre/Simon is an absolute nightmare, especially to the women who love him! He was horrid, but I was mystified and intrigued by him and was hooked almost immediately, wondering what layers of secrets would unravel next. This deliciously twisted tale unfolds first through the eyes of our charmingly sinister villain, then through a chorus of unsuspecting victims - all building toward a crescendo of perfectly timed twists that never seemed to let up. The deeper I delved into each scam, the more impossible it became to tear myself away - this book had me in its' clutches! I especially appreciated how the author gave us direct access to the villain’s thoughts—getting a raw, unfiltered look into the manipulations and mindset of a sociopath is something I find endlessly fascinating, and I don't think I'm the only one! Though I often found myself exasperated by the victims' blind trust and naivete, and found myself shaking my head more than once, I still felt deep empathy for each of them - and let's be honest, I was in it to the end just to see that con artist finally get what they deserved! By the time the final pages hit, the payoff was everything I'd been waiting for. If Don't Let Him In isn't my favorite Lisa Jewell novel yet, it's definitely in my top 3, and undoubtedly has the very best villain in all of her novels to date! This novel will appeal to fans of a variety of genres, and is deserving of every bit of praise it'll inevitably receive - this is one you don't want to miss!

Hands down, my favorite book by this author! Nina Swann has lost her husband, Paddy Swann, after he was pushed onto the railroad tracks—a devastating event for the family and for his restaurants. Nina and her grown daughter, Ash, are grieving when an unexpected package arrives. Nick Radcliffe, an old friend of Paddy’s, has sent them a lighter that once belonged to Paddy, along with a heartfelt note. Not long after, Nina begins dating Nick, who quickly immerses himself in their lives. Ash is uneasy about this man and starts her own investigation into who Nick really is. In another town, Martha, the owner of a local florist shop, is worried about her husband, Alistair, who keeps disappearing on her and the family. What is he hiding? Don’t Let Him In was perfectly unfolded. Every character had a clear reason to exist and a purpose. I was engaged until the very last word. Cliffhanger: No 5/5 Fangs MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram

I’ve read everything Lisa Jewell has written since Ralph’s Party. She really is the Queen of the psychological drama. This is no exception.

HE THRILLER QUEEN DOES IT AGAIN! This may be the most deranged and unhinged book of hers yet and I absolutely LOVED IT. I don’t want to give too much away, but in true @lisajewelluk fashion this book will have turning the pages until the end, and then have you thinking, “what did I just read?” BRAVO!

Holy crap that was one hell of a book!!! You can trust my judgement on this one.. I am VERY hit and miss with Lisa Jewell books, so when I say that this one blew me away you know I really mean it! The story follows a male con artist who leaves a path of destruction in his wake in the form of many wives, abandoned children and thousands of pounds in debt. The chapters alternate between different time periods and women (which admittedly was confusing at first trying to piece together exactly who was who) but eventually you get the flow of things and the story begins to align. You also get his first hand perspective which is a fun addition to the book, an entry into his inner thoughts, his truly terrible mind as he literally terrorizes people over and over again. I will say I had some difficulty reading this book purely for the fact that his character angered me SOO much with his unparalleled audacity that occasionally I had to take breaks because I was so frustrated with his nonsense 😂😂 The ending was entirely satisfying and it is worth the rollercoaster of emotions you will feel whilst reading. Thank you to the author and Atria Books for the EARC! Publish date: June 24th 2025

the setup… It begins with the death of restauranteur Paddy Swann, a man with a lust for life and a loving family who died after being pushed into the path of a commuter train. Soon after his funeral, his wife Nina receives a note and a package from Nick Ratcliffe who claims to be an old friend of Paddy’s. It leads to him eventually connecting to Nina romantically but her daughter Aisling (Ash) is skeptical from the start. Meanwhile, Martha is a small-town florist who is married to Alistair (Al), her second marriage and has two sons from her first. She’s recently given birth to a baby girl with Al and is struggling to keep things going, especially with his frequent business trips and mysterious absences. The lives of these women will soon intersect in the most extraordinary of ways. the heart of the story… Ash had every reason to be wary of the charming Nick and secretly begins an exploration of the man that leads to incredible places. We’re all familiar with calculating men who aren’t what they seem but this is next level. What first appears as a man who is skillfully conning two women for their affections (and money) progresses to something much more complex. What makes this man so successful is his ability to give these women exactly what they want and are looking for…every single one of them. the narration… This is that story that demanded a full cast and they delivered the story masterfully! Richard Armitage was outstanding as the character we first know as Nick and the rest of the cast gave perfect voice to these women. the bottom line… I felt a full range of emotions with this story, often rage at what this man was perpetrating. These weren’t naive, gullible women…they were all accomplished and pretty savvy…giving it even more heft and weight. It’s complicated in its delivery, with transitions between characters and time periods but I found it manageable. It’s described as a kaleidoscope thriller and I didn’t know what that meant until I finished. Jewell has crafted another gem that will leave you breathless. Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to Simon & Schuster Audio and Libro.fm for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

Another short and sweet lil’ review, as I’ve left it SO long between drinks. Almost two months to be precise! I remember not wanting to pause the audio, this thriller gave me all the necessary parts to complete the well rounded, perfectly crafted whole. The completely evil man, with such little regard to the whole world other than himself who inserts himself to the woman who is right for the picking. He has the knack. Until he doesn’t. There’s a delicious tension humming through this thriller, the kind that circles characters who are just the right mix of insecure, impressionable and caught at that oddly wobbly life‑moment where everything feels a bit more permeable than it should. That just right tangle of vulnerability and terrible timing (for the disastrously unlucky female) gives the whole thing an extra zing, so every twist lands with a little jolt and the stakes feel wonderfully sharp. It’s proper edge of your seat, still breezy to follow, and the ending snaps into place with that deeply pleasing click I’m always chasing. When I say this I realise I’m not easily pleased at times. Not that there’s anything wrong with that, in fact it’s probably a good thing. I loved all the women, their failings and their hope. I wanted to shake several of them repeatedly, and that chaotic thrill is why I read. I love the narrative stress in a funny way. This is a must read for the thriller inhaler, she’s a gem. So happy I walked past her on the shelf maybe around 20 years ago, one of those that pretty much fell into my willing hands. I listened to this via the Borrowbox app and my public library. Get moving, you won't regret it. You can thank me later 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣

I love Lisa Jewell novels. If there’s one thing to expect from her stories, it’s that they are consistently good. Don’t Let Him In is no exception, and by the middle of the book, I was quite invested. I felt a bit on edge, hoping that Al—Nick, Simon... whatever his real name was—would be caught. The story unfolds across two timelines, allowing us to appreciate the intricate planning behind the long con narrative. Ash has been merely surviving since the senseless death of her father, Paddy. Though he was short in stature, his larger-than-life presence was the center of their family. So, when her mother, Nina, starts dating an old colleague of Paddy’s about a year after his death, Ash isn’t upset, but she is a little wary. Martha appears to have the ideal life—perfect husband, home, business, and family—until everything starts falling apart. Al begins to disappear for extended periods, leaving her to flounder at home while he remains completely unreachable. On several occasions, she finds herself in desperate situations, having to ask a friend to transport her and her sick child to the hospital and even shutting down her business because she has no childcare to get to work. She starts to worry that Al is having an affair, as his stories don’t seem to add up. What Nina and Martha don’t initially realize is that they are both involved with the same man. He is a master manipulator, and his game is the long con. So long in fact that they are not his first victims. Ash quickly catches on and begins to untangle the web of lies. However, as the story becomes increasingly complex, she wonders: will her mother believe her? Does she even believe it herself? There isn’t a major twist in this novel; it unfolds as you might expect from the beginning. However, the slow burn and anticipation building are where this plot truly shines. I found myself anxiously biting my nails, hoping they would catch him. Another great thriller from this author. Thank you to NetGalley and Atria Books for allowing me to read this novel in exchange for my honest review. All opinions are my own and based on my personal experience.

5⭐️ This is my favorite Lisa Jewell yet!!! 😱 it hooked me immediately, got under my skin in the best of ways, I could not put it down. I loved trying to piece together what was going on, and discovering how everything connected in the end. The ending was so satisfying and this is an absolute must read thriller!

** spoiler alert ** This audiobook was good. Good suspense.. This vile man got on my nerves in the end with his endless ways of pathetic wanting and his unwillingness to get a real job. He just live off women after women and wanting their money. He forced them into debts. I dislike him a lot. At the same time, a good story and a good reminder for women everywhere to not fall prey to good looking charming men who worms themselves into the women's lives. This story followed a few different women and their daughters. Ash, 26, lives at home and feels uneasy towards her mom's new boyfriend Nick. Nina, a recent widower. Martha, currently married to Allistair. Amanda, married to Damien. Tara, married to Jonathan. Her daughter Emma kept Jonathan from doing his dirty deeds. Jessica who used a male escort for more than a decade named Andre. He was nice to her until he wasn't. There are young ladies that felt like they're being followed and made to feel uncomfortable. A mystery man started his story 4 years ago about his life with his wife. He knew how to make her happy and knew how to make her feel loved. Then he felt tired of his wife and had an affair with another woman and eventually moved in with her. He has many sad stories that women willing to buy his bs.. Full casts audio I believe. I liked Ash's narrator's voice. The man who narrated the mystery man did well I think because I'm so annoyed with him and his voice.. Thank you Atria Books and PRHAudio for the opportunity to read, listen, and review.

Honestly…I am warning you, DON'T LET HIM IN! Lisa Jewell earns another jewel in her crown she has earned as one of the queens of thriller writing. Serendipitously, I had the opportunity to experience this thriller as both an ebook and an audiobook. Libby took back my ecopy at 75% completed as I could not renew my loan because too many readers were waiting in line. As a Spotify member I borrowed an audio version and finished the last quarter of the novel. Both versions were quite satisfying but I would suggest the audio version as the two narrators, one female and one male made me feel entrenched in this English tale with their rich English accents. This was a banger of a thriller, hands down! My disgust for the main character and antagonist grew steadily as the storyline progressed. In my reading experience it is often enjoyable to read a morally grey (not this character), dark or morally black character. For those of you who love to have good intentioned characters to cling to, there are plenty of those as well. The author definetely rolled up a mountain with a moss covered boulder of a storyline that grew and grew until she reached the summit where this very large story was sent over the side. She only needed to lightly shove her storyline off the other side were it satisfactorily sped to it's finish. Fellow readers, whether you are a lover of Lisa Jewell's work or a thriller reader or perhaps a reader simply looking for an exciting book pick up Lisa Jewell's latest…Don't Let Him In. AND REMEMBER… DON'T LET HIM IN!

EXCUSE ME WHILE I WIPE THE DROOL OF MY FACE. ROWIN!!!!!!!!!!! THE FICTIONAL MAN YOU ARE!!! PHEW. I need a breather. I thought Phantasma was incredible and was like nah, it can’t get better, BAM 💥 ENCHANTRA came along. I seriously loved this, from the plot, to the romance, to the spice, to the (hopefully) possibility of the side characters getting a main story, it was perfection. I ate this up faster than a McFlurry from McDonald’s. —fantasy romance —they play games at a mansion —second in series —plus size FMC —HE HAS A LIP RING 💍 yeah, I’m on my knees (like Rowin) quite literally begging you to read this book. Thank you.

this just claimed the #1 spot on my top 10 of the year so far. I cried 3x. I'm so attached to these characters, this world, and this storyline. honestly one of the best books I've ever read. p.s. long live chapter 29 👀

i would give my soul to rowin 😩 stop i didn’t want this to be over omg !! the way i was immediately sucked in right from the beginning should be JAIL 😭 this series has me in such a chokehold and i’ve been DYING to finally start this book. i already knew i would fall in love with vivi but then rowin popped up ??? HELLO 😍 i love him and i want him so bad it physically hurts !! not only did i fall in love with the main characters but also with rowin’s siblings and umbra too 🥹 even though they all tried to kill vivi at some point they’re still lovable LOL 💀 i love how this was different than phantasma in many ways 💜 every single chapter had me so intrigued !! all the rounds of the hunt made my heart stop and restart again 😂 i wish i could read this all over again !! it makes me want to reread phantasma and this 😩 the way i want to live in this book world and go through the rounds is quiet concerning 😅 even though i know i would probably die the second i stepped foot into the house but yo fucking lo ROWIN IS A DIRTY DAWG AND I AM DOWN BAD FOR HIM 💥💳 the tension, push and pull between him and vivi was oh so delicious 🤤 i never wanted to be a fictional character so bad in my life. vivi is out here living my dream 🤩 these characters are absolutely everything !! i loved getting to see salem and ophie as well 💜 🌶️🌶️

A broody MMC with piercings (yes, PLURAL), banter and TATTOOS?!? COUNT ME IN! First, thank you Second Sky for sending me this early ARC, I feel so lucky! Second… This book was so fun!!!! I loved the games aspect, and it takes place in Rome. The more I think about this book, the more I love it. Kaylie Smith just knows how to write really fun, sexy books. Now, the spice wasn’t as good to me as the spice in Phantasma, but I liked the MMC better in this one. With the trials, the FMC’s tenacity in trying to find her light again (relatable) and the marriage of convenience, I was toast. I ate this mf’er up. I am gonna have to give this 5 stars bc I enjoyed this immensely and I am already missing picking this book up. Anxiously waiting for an announcement for book 3!

I loved this book as equally as Phantasma.. it had the same Kaylie Smith feel while still be different than book one! I enjoyed how bingeable this was! Our characters were fun and the family dynamic??? Hauntingly magnificent.

4.5⭐️ I am OBSESSED with Kaylie Smith’s books. WOW. Spooky, sexy, fun, & captivating. I loved this one just as much as Phantasma, maybe even more. This book was so fast passed, I could not put it down. I’m obsessed with this paranormal world she has written and the romance was mouth watering. I’ve rates both books 4.5 so far but the series as a whole is honestly 5 stars for me.

I am in love with the way that Kaylie writes. Her pacing. Her prose. Her characters. This world and this setting. It is just fabulous!! I was intrigued to learn this book was about Genevieve and knew that the bar had been set VERY high with how much I enjoyed Phantasma. But yall this book meets the HYPE!! Kaylie created a whole new world in this world. One with delicious depravity and NEW wonderful characters. I found myself saying I want there to be a book for each one of Rowin's siblings. Can we all talk about the endings of their names are all ington IYKYK! My heart broke a little for WHY Genevieve was taking this journey. She had seen her sister find her person and felt a little untethered. She did not have the relationship with her mom that Ophelia did. She had her heart broken by a man who she thought was her forever. She just wasn't in a good head space. And her entering Enchantra was just fate I think. Rowin was beyond a grump borderline jerk. BUT we learned his behavior was a protection layer. This family was stuck in a terrible curse and each of the siblings had learned to cope with it in their own ways. Rowin and Genevieve were the definition of enemies to lovers. There was an INSTANT connection but he was so rude and vague to Genevieve and kept pulling the rug out from under her that she didn't know how to trust him. She actually kind of hated him. Kaylie did a great job of letting their relationship morph. As we all know there is a fine line between love and hate. And watching them cross that line was pretty delicious. I loved that Rowin was a shadow daddy! I feel like I need to start ranking those LOL. Anyways these two were bonded and in a short period of time realized that their relationship though *fake* meant something to them both. Genevieve feels a little lost. All she wants is to find out more about her family. She doesn't want to bother her sister since she is in bliss with her love. So she does what she does best- she finds trouble. She ends up at a mansion after being summoned. She meets Rowin almost immediately and dislikes him just as quickly. Why is he being so rude and trying to make her leave? He won't get rid of her that quickly. And now that plan backfired because Genevieve is to be included in their annual rite. The one where Knox, a powerful demon, has all of the siblings (all 7 of them) fight to the death to entertain his people. The one caveat to being able to leave this place is if one of them gets married. Which is how Genevieve finds herself kissing and wedding Rowin before the ceremony begins. Now she is supposed to trust him to protect her throughout this whole thing. She doesn't trust him one bit. She KNOWS there is more going on that he isn't telling her. But then he slowly starts to show her his cards. About how his mother is involved and this ceremony prolongs her life. How he has been searching for a cure during his year away after he has won the ceremony. How he actually really loves his siblings so much and how it is beyond hard to have to kill them over and over again. Should she trust him with all of this? Because he starts to tell her more. About how he feels for her. And how much he is attracted to her. But this can't go anywhere right? She is either going to die or leave after they win. But she can't help the attraction and what they share goes beyond anything she has experienced. And now she is imagining a future. She is plotting along side him and his family to help them get out of this horrible situation. Because even though she didn't think she would she has learned more about her family and she has FOUND her partner and LOVES his family. They just have to figure out how to do all of this and plot twist a demon without giving anything away. I think the only thing I didn't like about this book was that I wanted MORE! I wanted more of the siblings and their banter. More spice between Genevieve and Rowin (since it happened so late in the book). More shenanigans in the house with the familiars. I like that we don't know EVERYTHING because that leaves SO much that Kaylie can still teach us. I loved that we had new species (?) in this? We got introduced to wraiths- blood, shadow and void I believe. This series and book have everything I love in a fantasy. I also like the added bonus that it is set in a city that we are familiar with but in a different time. If you haven't picked this series or book up- do it! I can't recommend it enough!! Now I have to find the chapter in Rowin's POV LOL. I am guessing book 3 is going to involve Sevin and his ex (pretty please because that sounded so intriguing!!).

Dark Romance OMG talk about an enemies to Lovers. I know this book was compared to Carval, and it was handed out then that this was much more intense and they were not lying. There were times when I was so frustrated and irritated with some of the characters really is very frustrating to deal with Rowan is also very difficult to deal with and when you throw the two of them together it's it's a disaster. I would however recommend this book be read as a buddy read with someone else that way you've got somebody to talk about what's going on. What you think. I had things figured out in my mind which ended up not being correct. This was the second book of the wicked games and I'm very much looking forward to the third book. Happy reading and I'll see you in the Game!

5/5 ⭐️ 4/5 🌶️ 5/5 PLOT This was so satisfying with the twists and turns, family drama, and intimacy between the main characters. Phantasma was so enticing and I loved the thriller of levels. Enchantra added extra intensity and put the family drama into all the phases of the hunt that made it so unpredictable. I never knew who was going to die next 🤣. I definitely got some answers but I also see the plot building for the next book. Can’t wait to see what she writes next to see more of Rowan and Vivi!

𝖲𝗂𝗇𝖼𝖾 𝖨 𝗌𝖺𝗋𝗍𝖾𝖽 this book 𝖨 𝗐𝖺𝗌 𝗍𝗁𝗂𝗇𝗄𝗂𝗇𝗀 𝖺𝖻𝗈𝗎𝗍 𝗂𝗍 𝗇𝗈𝗇 𝗌𝗍𝗈𝗉!! 𝖨 𝖼𝗈𝗎𝗅𝖽𝗇’𝗍 𝗐𝖺𝗂𝗍 𝖿𝗈𝗋 𝗇𝗂𝗀𝗁𝗍 𝗍𝗈 𝖼𝗈𝗆𝖾 𝗍𝗈 𝖿𝗂𝗇𝖺𝗅𝗅𝗒 𝖼𝗈𝗇𝗍𝗂𝗇𝗎𝖾 𝗍𝗁𝖾 𝗌𝗍𝗈𝗋𝗒!!! ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ 🅣🅗🅔 🅢🅣🅞🅡🅨 The story had me hooked: the hex, the siblings, the games, their dynamics, literally everything. It was fully action packed, it made my heart ache for Genevieve, Rowin, Sevin, Grave, Ellin, Covin, Remi and Wells multiple times, and after each time my heart was somehow torn to pieces, I was laughing and giggling because of the sibling’s bickering or because of Genevieve’s amazing humor. *Also their names were extremely funny:Rowington,Remington,Covington,Gravington,Ellington,Wellington,Sevington😂 ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ 🅣🅗🅔 🅒🅞🅝🅒🅔🅟🅣 was also very interesting, why the siblings are bound to this wicked game, what happens each round, their Familiars, how they treat or respond to each other after years of being tortured by Knox and how almost all of them lost hope.You could literally feel their exhaustion and how they can’t take playing this game anymore.Everything was beautifully written and I got extremely attached to the characters. *Also Ellin manipulating Covin with the little sister act to win 🤩 ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ 🅣🅗🅔 🅢🅣🅐🅡 of the book for me was definitely 𝓖𝓮𝓷𝓮𝓿𝓲𝓮𝓿𝓮.She was extremely relatable.She was smart, strong and she was brave, but it was also to mask away her anger and sorrow she felt inside.She doesn’t stomach being in silence around people and that hit extremely close to home.The way she was battling her feelings was very emotional to read about. The journey of battling her demons and trying to understand how she feels, and trying to tame down her disappointment in herself towards her past, all while being determined to win the game was extremely emotional to me, and I loved how the author described her as a whole. *It was extremely funny (and kinda stupid, but still funny )that she always chose to go in the maze😭 Something that I didn’t enjoy fully was 🅣🅗🅔 🅛🅞🅥🅔 🅢🅣🅞🅡🅨 .I couldn’t feel Rowin’s feelings for Genevieve until the end, his love language is definitely acts of service, but they both were tormented by the game and that brought some drama throughout the book which I didn’t quite enjoy.Genevive was liking him then she found out he didn’t tell her something important, she was mad at him, he explained somehow and then she wasn’t mad anymore.And this repeated many times and even though some were only misunderstandings, it was clear that Rowin wasn’t capable of showing Genevieve that he deserves to be trusted and loved. He did make me understand that he cares deeply for her throughout the book but I wasn’t fully convinced until the end.He definitely won me over at the end, what he did was extremely sweet and thoughtful 😔 However, I liked how Rowin was assuring her everytime even though I wasn’t very convinced about some things, he was there for her. *Their tradition was very interesting 🤩.Each sibling telling some secret and the juiciest one wins?And the winner plunges the first knife into their father’s back?Damn🤩🤩🤩 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I love this universe and basically everything 😭😭😭I hate the fact that there will be a time I won’t be able to read more about them anymore . Also the bits with Ophie and Blackwell(I won’t call him that ugly name) made me happy!!! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This was wayy more emotionally packed than Phantasma and that’s what I loved more about this book, but the love story in the previous book has my whole heart😻. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 𝙸𝚗 𝚌𝚘𝚗𝚌𝚕𝚞𝚜𝚒𝚘𝚗,𝙸 𝚕𝚘𝚟𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚜 𝚋𝚘𝚘𝚔 𝚍𝚎𝚎𝚙𝚕𝚢 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝙸’𝚖 𝚐𝚕𝚊𝚍 𝙸 𝚌𝚊𝚖𝚎 𝚊𝚌𝚛𝚘𝚜𝚜 𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚜 𝚜𝚎𝚛𝚒𝚎𝚜, 𝚎𝚟𝚎𝚗 𝚝𝚑𝚘𝚞𝚐𝚑 𝚊𝚝 𝚏𝚒𝚛𝚜𝚝 𝙸 𝚍𝚒𝚍𝚗’𝚝 𝚠𝚊𝚗𝚝 𝚝𝚘 𝚛𝚎𝚊𝚍 𝚒𝚝😭😭𝚃𝚑𝚊𝚝 𝚠𝚘𝚞𝚕𝚍’𝚟𝚎 𝚋𝚎𝚎𝚗 𝚊 𝚐𝚛𝚎𝚊𝚝 𝚕𝚘𝚜𝚜. ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ Pre read I wanted to start a Christmas book today, but I changed my mind and impulsively decided to read this one instead 😻🤷‍♀️

I might have liked this more than Phantasma 🤷🏾‍♀️ I adore Genevieve as FMC. I really liked the games in Enchantra as well. I thought they were unique and kinda twisted. All the characters were fun and unique in their own ways. I loved the magic in this world. The plot was fantastic and I had a great time. ROWINNN😩❤️ Love that man down! I also liked the mentions of Ophelia. Genevieve being a sexually liberated women hit on hard. The spice was not often but so good. We love a hot woman. This book was just so much fun 🫶🏾

I - I’m speechless. This book altered my brain chemistry. I did not want it to end. I loved Phantasma, but holy shit did Genevieve & Rowin blow it out of the water. The banter? Fanfuckingtastic The tension? Hot damn The SPICE? Who needs ovaries, not me, because they’re gone after this book The plot? Infuckingtriguing The sibling rivalry? Where tf do I sign up, my siblings & I have some rage we could work out Rowington? Holy shit, I’ll be trouble any day if it gets me a Rowin Genevieve? A fucking queen That’s the review, iconic. read it. tysm.

First of all the cover is so stunning 😍✨. I might have to buy the physical copy for this one 🤭. Now I was told that the fmc Genevieve would be annoying but to me she was alright 🤷🏾‍♀️🙊. I honestly didn't want this book to end because of how captivated I was.🙇🏾‍♀️ And also because of Rowington Silver 🤭 and also Sevin. This man had me giggling and kicking my feet just because he let her put flowers in his hair😭. I also love how both the first and second books in this series are genuinely so well written and good.💁🏾‍♀️ Like I can't even begin to say which is my favourite 😮‍💨. Did I see the amnesia trope from a mile away? Yes 😂 Did I still enjoy it? Of course I did 😭. The last 2 or 3 chapters I wanted to sob but I didn't 😭💔. Favourite quotes: “Then maybe I was made for you,” he implored, as if he were angry about that fact. “How else have you managed to get so deep under my skin in such a short amount of time? Why is it that every time I try to imagine what it would be like to sever our vows, I feel like the Hunting Blade is piercing my heart? Fifteen years I’ve lived for everyone else around me. I’ve withered away in this damned place. Until you showed up and you made me laugh. You gave me hope.” Oh Rowin 😭♥️🎀. “Shadows can only be seen in the presence of light,” he told her, the words agonized. “I worry when you leave, there will be no one left to see me.” This broke my heart 😭 My Rowin🌹. And I know your memories have not come back even with these letters, and that means they likely never will. But I will never stop searching for a way to get them back for you. I will search for the rest of my eternity if I must, because it belongs to you already. I pledge it to you in my vows. 🤧🫂 “Even without any of my memories, I felt drawn to you. We could be enemies, or husband and wife, or just fucking, but never nothing, Rowington Silver.” 🧎🏾‍♀️😭. I am soooo ready for the third book which I'm told is about Sevin 🫣. I can't wait!!!!

If Kaylie Smith writes it I NEED IT! Thank you so much Second Sky for the ARC. I don’t think I’ll be able to formulate a proper review of this book because I’ve spent the last 30 minutes just screaming and spinning in circles.

Updated Review: OBSESSED is an UNDERSTATEMENT! A cursed palace in the Italian countryside, an arrogant shadow daddy with tattoos and piercings galore, who happens to be a wraith, a competition run by an evil devil, a marriage of convenience, baroque ballrooms, masquerades a trip into hell, sisterhood and more, may I present, one of my most anticipated releases of this year, Enchantra by Kaylie Smith. Both Phantamsa & Enchantra have done something to the inner workings of my soul where I feel a physical pull towards the books that make them impossible to put down. I legitimately feel like a teen fangirl swooning and screaming over like One Direction. That is how obsessed I am with this world, these books and these characters. Enchantra follows our new FMC, Genevieve, who has fled her hometown of New Orleans and gone to Italy in search of something more, a purpose, and some answers regarding all of the secrets her family has kept from her. If you don't know, Genevieve is the younger sister of the FMC from Phantasma. While in Rome, Genevieve receives a mysterious seemingly magical invitation that brings her to a stunning hidden palace in the countryside where she is greeted by the very handsome, rude and mysterious Rowington AKA Rowin. He demands that she leave the premises, but driven by curiosity and a desire to find out more about her mother, Genevieve slips inside and instantly regrets it as she finds herself in the midst of a very deadly game between Rowin and his family. As it turns out, Rowin and his siblings are wraiths, and they are locked in an eternal yearly game run by a devil and watched and celebrated by the citizens of Hell, and the catch is there can only be one winner and all of the losers are killed and dragged back to Hell. For Rowin and his siblings, they are immortal, so they don't actually get killed, but for Genevieve, if she does not win, she will actually lose her life. Her only way to survive this game is a fake romantic alliance with Rowin, where the pair must put on the show of their lifetimes for the devil in charge and the citizens of hell. The duo begin this book absolutely detesting each other but as the stakes of the game get higher, their feelings for each other seem to sway as well, which is not ideal since Rowin taught Genevieve that the first rule of Enchantra is to never, ever trust your heart. Enchantra has the same addictive qualities as Phantasma, but the story still felt so fresh and unique especially because of the characters. Genevieve is a PHENOMENAL FMC with a huge louder than life personality. She is hilarious, witty, outspoken, brave, vulnerable and sensitive and I adored her character. She made me laugh so much while also pulling at all of my heartstrings. Vivi's story was really beautiful, because although we love the romance, we also follow her along on her quest to find herself, find her purpose and realize that she is enough and that she matters. We find out that Genevieve is dealing with the aftermath of a traumatic heartbreak, as well as trying to cope with her mother's recent passing, and dealing with the negligence she experienced from her mother her entire life. And trust me when I say you girls are going to adore Rowin, he is swoon worthy, he is drool worthy, he is a morally grey moody shadow wraith with tattoos, a lip piercing, other piercings and his romance with Vivi is exceptional. They definitely give grumpy sunshine in the best way possible. Also, if you were wondering, yes, yes we do get a Blackwell cameo, and I did in fact screech because if you did not know he is my favorite book boyfriend. Finally, I do want to give a shoutout to Kaylie Smith's writing, Addictive does not cover it like I need this series like I need air. Although obviously this is a dark gothic world, Kaylie's writing style is almost light hearted and whimsical in a way that makes it feel like a gothic rom com and I mean that as the highest compliment. The chemistry in the romance is palpable on every page and I found myself laughing SO much throughout this book because Kaylie infused so much humor into this story and I loved every moment. The Wicked Games series is already one of my favorite series ever, like I want to live in this world so badly I don't even care.

How does she do it? I inhaled this massive tome rather than sleep the last few nights, marveling as always at the talent and skill this author has for weaving intricate plots and creating believable characters. I was straight up terrified for Robin for 90% of this book. A suffocating atmosphere of danger and menace is not an easy thing to conjure, but it's here in spades. JKR sure knows how to craft suspense, mostly by putting her characters through the wringer, and I am HERE for it. I hope the next book comes out quickly, because the last chapter made me gasp out loud. Talk about a cliffhanger! I think Troubled Blood is still my favorite in the series so far, but this one is probably runner-up. The amount of character growth for Strike and Robin in the last three books has been stellar to watch unfold. It's a slow burn, to be sure, but one of rare quality and believability. More, please!

Omg that ending! I'm screaming and waving my hands in the air

Read in 13 hours 38 minutes and 20 seconds. (Used a stopwatch.) I love this series, whenever a new one comes out, it's the literary highlight of my year. Decamped with a friend to a hotel to read this in one glorious unbroken go. The premise for this book is an extraordinarily captivating and tense one. Without an obvious murder really driving the plot, it's an interesting story challenge for the series. Aiming to free someone from a cult, the team has to do deep undercover work. While there have been very tense moments with our characters being undercover in previous books, it's nothing to the extent of what happens here. I was on the edge of my seat and worried the entire time. How does this detective agency even begin to weedle out information in an environment where everyone is so slavishly programmed to a cult? I imagine this whole stretch of the book is going to be tough on rereads (like the forest parts of Deathly Hallows or when Harry and Ron fall out in Goblet). Pat gets some terrific lines in this, she's emerging as one of my favourite characters. Strike, despite his jealousy at Robin's new boyfriend, is such a lovable protagonist here and gets some brilliant punch the air moments similar to his interaction with Dennis Creed in Troubled Blood. I was reminded a lot of Troubled Blood while reading as the investigation flirts with potential cold cases that orbit the cult. There are also some huge moments that had the hairs on my arms prickling up and making me gasp in shock. Loved it, and love that gap between this and the last book was a lot shorter. I hope that book 8 comes out even quicker! P.S. I can also confirm a character in this is correct when they say that Il Portico does the best pasta in London.

I am sleep-deprived, and it's all Jo Rowling's fault The first thing that struck me when I began Robert Galbraith's (AKA J.K. Rowling's) The Running Grave was how readable it was. Usually when I begin reading a new book I am conscious of some effort. No matter how good it may be, it feels a little like work to make my way into a new novel. But not when Rowling is the author! I was drawn in immediately. And I remained engaged right through to the end. It was not literally unputdownable, but it was pretty darn close. 960 pages, and I finished it in just over two days. What's more, I got up at 4:00 this morning, unable to sleep for wanting to know what came next. As always in a Cormoran Strike book, there are two plots. The first plot (which is the plot of the series, as opposed to any particular book) is the Strike/Robin romance. At the end of The Ink Black Heart each of them had come to the realization that they were secretly in love with the other. I say "secretly", but this is perhaps the world's worst-kept secret. All of Robin and Strike's good friends think they should be romantic as well as business partners, and both their Exes are convinced that they're sleeping with each other. For several books now we readers have been saying to ourselves, "For Pete's sake, would you two just TALK to each other and straighten yourselves out?" Strike is more at fault in this than Robin -- as one character tells Robin, "I’ve had a sort of impression, from what Corm’s told me, that you’re the emotionally intelligent side of the partnership." We make some progress, but I will say no more about the romance plot. The second plot, of course, is the investigation. It is not immediately clear when the book begins whether there is actually a mystery. Will Edensor, one of the sons of a wealthy family, has joined a cult -- the Universal Humanitarian Church (UHC). His parents think he is being mistreated and exploited and want to get him out, but their attempts to bring the law to bear on the UHC have been unsuccessful. Will's father hires Strike and Robin to investigate the UHC, to find means to get Will out. Strike and Robin realize immediately that they are going to have to get someone into the UHC, and Robin volunteers -- nay, insists that it should be her. Robin's undercover investigation of the UHC occupies two-thirds of the book. This part is gripping. Point of view alternates between Robin and Strike. Strike continues the investigation of the UHC from the outside. Robin's chapters are the most harrowing -- we feel that she is in real danger throughout this time. To my surprise, the book didn't end when Robin escaped the UHC. We still have about a third of the novel to go. At this point it has become clear that there is a real mystery to be solved. The last third of the book is a fairly conventional mystery. As always, Rowling puts a lot of balls in the air, and manages to keep them all flying with admirable virtuosity. In the end, The Running Grave feels like a combination of a thriller (first two thirds) and a mystery novel (last third). Both parts are very well done. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Blog review.

This was much easier to read than The Ink Black Heart. A true thumping good read and page turner. I read it while recuperating from jet lag. Good medicine. Definitely a few things outside my comfort zone but nothing gratuitous, in my opinion.

“I admit the possibility” – the words that somehow embody the spirit of human beings, irrespective of the kind of belief that drives you, irrespective of the fact that you can be an atheist or a skeptic, there comes a time in everyone’s life that you want to hold on to something, some kind of HOPE to live on. JK Rowling is a stellar storyteller, and I don’t mean that just coz of her massive success through Harry Potter but simply for the fact that she created this masterpiece of a story, an investigative thriller around a CULT. Of course, there are countless books out there on this subject but to construct something so rooted in the 21st century and make it appealing to anyone who hears about the church across all age groups, is just mind blowing. The Universal Humanitarian Church at first glance is just that, a service based group committed to doing good for the world and the author’s masterclass touch includes Hinduism and the symbolic use of LOTUS and the chants that I am so used to hearing around me honestly gave me the shivers which kind of reinforces the belief that I have always had, that it doesn’t matter how sane one is, sucked into a vortex like a cult, there would be never an escape. The investigation begins with the Edensor family wanting their youngest son Will out of the Chapman farm and Robin being an expert in disguise, goes undercover as Rowena to unearth the skeletons hidden in the church. And this raises the tension to a crescendo as Robin to her horror undergoes physical and mental exhaustion and terrifying and traumatic experiences within the confines of the farm. I loved how the author explores Robin's psyche showing her chanting the ‘Lokah Samastha Sukhino Bhavantu’ and her partial indoctrination and her mental strength to hold on to thoughts of Strike and his reactions to regain her sanity. The mystery of the drowned girl and the goings on of the church, and its activities gave me the creeps and the characters especially Mazu with her tarantula vibes was just evil. Unlike the other books in the series, the focus is more on the case even though the readers are made to sense the yearning of both partners for each other. As the saying goes, distance makes the heart grow fonder, Strike finally accepts his feelings for Robin as he misses her presence around him and is kind of depressed that he let Robin move further away from him due to his foolishness to maintain the status quo. Robin being already aware of her feelings for her partner is however more into the “falling out of love” phase and has a boyfriend in place and how cheeky of the author to lob a grenade at the end of the story getting the readers to crave for the next one immediately. The are several plots explored in the story in addition to the central plot, Strike’s relationship with his sister Prudence and his acceptance of the flighty Lucy seeing her truly without any misconceptions, and of course Charlotte and the arc of that enigmatic character drawing to a close giving Strike the clarity of what he wants in his future, the sub contractors, Midge, Barclay and Dev and the newest Littlejohn who has another mystery to be unveiled, and of course, the most efficient Pat and her quips. There are also several characters to sift through, as Strike on the outside and Robin on the inside get to the bottom of the UHC and its web. Another exemplary work by the author even though there was many a time where I felt the details were way too exhaustive to the point of boring for me, especially the parts inside the Chapman farm, Yes, Strike series is not your typical adrenaline racing thrillers, we all know that and the description does get the imagination running on all tangents but I would have loved it equally with a story more tightly wound and bound. Mind boggling as always! This review is published in my blog Rain'n'Books, ##Goodreads, ##Amazon India, ##Book Bub, ##Medium.com, ##Facebook, ##Twitter. ********************************************************************** 'Crisp', JK, please me begging for my poor wrists, not that I mind another 1000 page head spinner, LET THE COUNTDOWN BEGIN! and the title oh my just freaky! ***********************************************************************

The seventh book in this series is a big one: over nine hundred pages or thirty-four hours of audio, the option I went for. In truth, the previous episode was even bigger – nearly fourteen hundred pages – and I'd loved that one, so I wasn’t daunted. I also chose the audio format again, which I knew would be brilliantly narrated by British actor Robert Glenister. The givens were that the story would be a complex one with many characters and that the unfulfilled romance between Cornish detective Cormoran Strike and his business partner Robin Ellacott would be a continuing theme throughout. This time, the pair are hired by a concerned father whose son, Will, had joined a religious cult, situated in rural Norfolk. Will’s substantial trust fund was now being drained by the Universal Humanitarian Church, as the cult has badged itself. Before long, it was decided that despite obvious personal risks, Robin would seek to infiltrate the cult. So we watch as she attends recruitment meetings and is eventually shipped off to Norfolk. Then, for a substantial portion of the book, we follow Robin as an insider and bear witness to the conniving, demeaning and cruel treatment meted out to members by the leaders of this group, under the ultimate stewardship of a man known as Papa J. I thought I’d tire of this element, but such is the power of the author to bring alive a varied and rich mix of characters, I eventually became captivated by this place and the lives of the sad (and also the dreadful) people caught under Papa J’s spell. Outside of the farm, Strike was dealing with a pressing family issue whilst the 2016 Brexit referendum played out in the background. There were a couple of minor cases he and his team were investigating, too, but in all honesty, the book wasn’t enriched by their inclusion. There was also the ongoing saga of Strike’s ex-girlfriend, Charlotte, occupying Strike’s mind, as she naggingly called him with distressing messages, which he did his very best to ignore. In addition, a dalliance with an obnoxious and attention seeking woman allowed him some diversion from his thoughts concerning Robin’s ongoing romance with Ryan Murphy, a good-looking cop. There’s obviously a lot more to the tale than I’ve covered, but suffice to say by half way through, I was totally held captive. I’m in awe of Galbraith/Rowling’s ability to create such a convincing world: the scenes she sets inside the cult’s enclave are both disturbing and totally convincing. And by the end, so many theories had been espoused concerning potential concealment of deaths, outright murder and a mystery concerning an ‘accidental’ drowning that I had no idea where the truth lay. It’s a fantastic addition to what is already one of my ‘must read’ series. I really can't wait for the next one. NB: Each chapter is preceded by extracts from an ancient Chinese divination text (this translation being called The I Ching or Book of Changes) and even these snippets grabbed my attention, strange as they were. In fact, so much that I eventually found myself looking forward to the next.

Update 11.10.2023. Let me explain my 5star rating I am very enthusiastic about the book because of its well thought-out case, which had a shocking ending that I didn't expect. As a fan of documentaries on cults, I appreciate how the author explored what drives them and how they can manipulate people's beliefs on a large scale. While some readers may complain about the length of a book, I personally enjoy it. A successful TV series, based on these books, brelies on having multiple books with additional plotlines for each one, which ensures that the story remains interesting and engaging. If they were to cut out everything but the main plot, there wouldn't be enough material for many episodes. Therefore, I appreciate the length of the book and see it as necessary for a well-crafted series. The writing style is engaging, making it easy to immerse oneself in the story. The character development is excellent, giving me a deep understanding of their motives and perspectives. Overall, it's an excellent read, and I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in mystery and cults. Update: It’s without a doubt my favourite in the series so far. Page-turning, skilfully plotted and executed. This series gets better and better and I can’t wait for book #8! Yes, I can't wait! 👏🎉

Whatever the words are it’s going to be a 5 Star read!!! 5. Yep agreed 5 stars. Exactly what I expected. Spoilers below: Robin infiltrates the universal humanitarian church cult Mr goes undercover for 4 months. Stands up for herald in the retreat rooms and almost by Taio the icky groody son of Wace. But puts up good story for him to keep hands off. More crap happens at cult. She finds Will Edensor their clients son. And turns out he is father to Qing who is two with Lin Doherty who is Waces daughter. She had her at 14 bc all females are required to mate with whoever and no birth control. Bc they are baby trafficking and illegal adoptions. But Waces older daughter Abigail from his first wife actually killed Daiyu and had her cronies Paul Draper -Dopey and Jordan are Andy who overs slept. When Daiyu want Cherie went out on the vegetable run. Had her penned up in woods and liked some how and then cut her up and fed her to the pigs. Bloody machete found in tree and buried thigh bone found in the field. Turns out Daiyu the spoiled brat of Mazu and Alexander Graves. Killed above. Her likeness was made in straw for all the straw Dollie’s all the cult members made. And Cheri fittings carried the likeness out to sea and let her drowned. But we never found out who the jogger was. We never found out what really happened to Jennifer Wace. Nicholas and PHILLIpa should have had some repercussions. Etc. Prediction at end. Robin makes Ryan turn the car around. As too much traffic. But within the hour is back at office and in Strikes arms. Paralleling The wedding scene where she runs out of first dance to hug Strike

I finished reading this novel about five minutes ago. I’m sitting at my desk to write this review but I don't know how. I want to sing its praises because the latest instalment of the Cormoran Strike novels is by far the best one in the series. This time, Strike and Robin deal with a religious cult, its charismatic leader and everything surrounding these. I will not mention any more plot details because it’s probably best to go into this novel without too much knowledge or ideas… I will say, though, “The Running Grave” is without a shadow of a doubt, one of the most suspenseful novels I’ve ever read. Not in a cheap, flashy, and/or sensationalist way, but subtly and almost elegantly. The feeling of a permanent latent danger is omnipresent and mercilessly tugs at the nerves of the reader. I felt like biting my nails (which I don’t do) and it triggered the worst of my nervous habits and yet I felt like devouring this novel. I was reluctant to put it down and there were times I actually considered calling in sick (which I didn’t) to be able to keep reading. I read it feverishly and while I usually highlight passages and take notes, I quickly found myself unable and unwilling to do so because it would have broken my immersion. This novel is so readable and the subject matter so horrifyingly believable (cf. Scientology and similarly despicable cults) that reading “Grave” felt like entering the world of Strike and Robin. This was enhanced by the level of empathy especially Robin shows during crucial situations in the investigation. I just wish we had gotten to know more about a certain confrontation between Robin and two principal members of the cult… Strike, too, grows as a person during the course of the investigation. Especially when dealing with a major change and its aftermath. Despite its length (more than 1200 pages on my Kindle), “Grave” never felt long but found a near-perfect balance between the usual personal issues between Robin and Strike, secondary cases and the main mystery. And that ending... Rowling created a masterpiece of a detective novel and a marvellous piece of literary art. Rowling is also still very much openly transphobic and, thus, I encourage you not to buy her books but rather get them in a library so that at the very least she won’t profit anymore than she already has. If you’re one of those people who don’t believe who and what she is, here’s an excellent article (permanently updated) that collects Rowling’s disgusting statements and actions: https://www.glamour.com/story/a-compl... Roman Polanski, Woody Allen, Bill Cosby, Joanne K. Rowling - they are different kinds of monsters and yet monsters they all are. I recoil whenever I’m confronted with their depravity. And, yet, I cannot break from their art. I can keep calling them out, though. And yet, despite this, “The Running Grave” easily garners five stars out of five and a place among my favourite books. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Mastodon | Instagram | Pinterest | Medium | Matrix | Tumblr Ceterum censeo Putin esse delendam

Absolutely brilliant. I stayed awake through several nights listening to Robert Glenister read it. The best yet. I loved every moment of it. Yes it is long and I am a fan of editing but I really didn’t feel this needed editing. Everything added to the characters and to the story. It unsettled me - cults rely on coercive control which is never easy to read about and the length of the novel allowed for a kind of immersive relationship with this cult which was disturbing. I am sorry it is over because I loved it all but also slightly relieved because I haven’t slept well for the last few nights! Six stars.

** spoiler alert ** JK Rowling is the only author for whom I stay up late to get her new releases at midnight. So it was with Harry Potter when I was growing up, and so it is with Strike now. And OH MY GODS I love the entire series but this book is the best by far. I devoured it in less than 3 days, staying up till 5 in the morning too, couldn't put it down. It kept me on the edge of my seat, the whole church was very disturbing, and I was so worried about Robin at the farm (although I was annoyed she was staying there so long against her better judgement). Halfway through the book I though ok, that's quite enough of Charlotte, will her drama ever end? But then almost instantly I got my wish. Fina-fucking-lly. I really like the fact that Strike began to leave his past behind, that it's not his grumpy self alone against the world anymore. His relationship with Lucy developed significantly, and having Prudence in his life means a lot as well. He's finally realising that he deserves to be happy and that he needs others around him. He is now worthy of Robin. Robin's in a relationship with Ryan but that relationship quickly becomes what her marriage with Matt was. Yet again she needs to lie or keep quiet to avoid rows because of Murphy's jealousy and possessiveness. Perfect cliffhanger of an ending. Please please please Robin don't mess it up now

التحقيق الأضخم لسترايك وروبين تحقيق في جماعة دينية تبدو مسالمة من الخارج..ولكنها "اورويلية" متعصبة خلف الجدران فلتأتي لشارع دنمارك بلندن، للمكتب لنتعرف علي المزيد عن تلك القضية الأخطر لسترايك It's Strike & Robin's hugest, most dangerous case so far, they're facing a big international "Cult" with famous followers and dangerous "Brainwashing" influence. ****** The Case (The Story) ****** It made me emotionally attached from the very early beginning... With letters from a mother and a father to their son who joined this cult and got so "brainwashed" that he even refuse to see his mother who wish to see him before she dies of cancer. I love it when the novels -usually Rowling do this- has this handwritten letters in different styles. The father grieving his wife and her unfulfilled wish, the money his son spent all on this church, and fueled by dark secrets about this cult he get from an ex-member who mysteriously got killed, he goes to Strike to investigate the Church and the 'Chapman Farm' they make 'recruited' work in to try to get his son out of this farm. So Robin gets in undercover, into this Brainwashing tyrant system to volunteer in Chapman Farm, but knowing how dangerous they're after targeting -and killing- an ex-member didn't prepare Robin for her horrible months spent in there. How some systems, cults, even activity groups brainwash people to join, knowing who to target and how to play in every individual. Also how the system of these cults are like George Orwell's 1984... the top ranks are swimming in rich cream while asking the followers to restrict to the hardest of diets. Yet it's of course not just a Mission of "Making the Prodigal Son returns" but it gets more complicated when Robin and Strike uncover more dirt and secrets about the church.. specially with a mysterious death by drowning of a little girl more than 15 years ago. And The Story's so much more, with like other 3 side cases for the agency , complicated private life of Strike, Robin and even the staff at the agency. It's not just a story, it's living the life of Strike and Robin and their private investigation agency... you'll literally live with them as long as you're reading this massive 960 pages book. ****** The Writing Style ****** Rowling use here an ancient Chinese divination book called "I Ching or The Book of Changes" as a header for every chapter and every part... I may didn't get most of it at the beginning but it gets better and accurate of the events happening each chapter. The use of this book is the influence it made on the founder's wife of the cult... the evil Mazu, who consult the patterns "hexagrams" of I Ching. of course as the previous six books Rowling tells the story with compelling narrating that will make the 9 or 10 months of the story like a real living them in the few days you'll read it. One of the things that always help get that feeling is how the author brilliantly draw the characters as if they're flesh and blood and -in my case- as if - or actually- I've known them for years now. ***** The Characters ****** Let's start with those new ones. Jonathan Wace The leader of the UHC, also the founder... great portrait of the persuasive, manipulative talker. Shrouded with mystery and halo of power. Becca Pirbright High ranked young member of the UHC... great portrait of the brainwashed cult member who also keep passing this brainwash to new members. Mazu Wace A horrible leader of the UHC... wife of the founder and with a dark past and mysterious motives.. These and more characters at the Chapman Farm and the UHC really excellent written, when confronting with Robin and Strike it always made hell of thrilling scenes. The characters also from the Agency, Midge, Barclay even Clive Littlejohn who you'll meet only this book are well developed and fun to read. but really loved this time the amazing old secretary, Pat I always imagine here as Estelle, Joey's Agent in F.R.I.E.N.D.S. , "Corm, it's Pat !" her character gets a huge development here and more depth. Well, I can say that for every character the series ever mentioned but here's one I really can't forgive how Rowling made me feel about in this book.. Charlotte Campbell well, that's how I imagined here before, as Eva Green. Since book one and she's like the Haunting of Strike... her calls in the office landline and constant appearing in every high society event he attend... she's here even haunt him more and finally tell the untold truth about her fear of who own Strike's heart now... even if he won't admit.. But it was dangerous scene this time and seriously a shock.... it made me even cry in the St John the Baptist Church's scene.. And Finally Robin I bet you'll feel like me extremely worried of her safety in her most dangerous undercover mission so far... few months in the cult's farm really made me jumpy just as she had. As usual, amazing development of the character, accurate in writing about her feelings and the shifts and unbalancing that keep happening in her love life. And Strike Also so much going on, his love for Robin still burning in him.... and these new feelings -can't spoil more- for Charlotte. He's so in a mess in this one, with the stress and worry about Robin in the Farm, and missing her, and a mole in his agency, plus the whole open war that he gets into because of investigating the church. his old uncle's problem. there's so much going on and may be that what makes me reading this feel like I'm actually living with Strike and all the characters. Well... one major factor of the living experience of the novel that is how Rowling makes you go to ; ***** The Places ****** Rowling sure make you travel to UK by her words and compelling way of describing the scenes of the novels , From Thornbury to Cromer, to different streets of London as if you're walking there yourself. Entering some buildings for interviewing, or going to fine restaurants or bars. Oh did you know that because a restaurant's owner supports J.K. Rowling in raising money for Ukraine a hate group vandalized his restaurant..she mentioned his in this novel. There's also this church that's visual from the farm, and Rowling made a very touching scene there. And there's of course, Denmark Street.... where our beloved Agency and the apartment of Strike... 26 Denmark Street, above 12 Bar Club... Where I've spend my Birthday, 14 July, Reading time this year....while I'm in my country.. by reading this amazing big new novel of Mr. Robert Galbraith.. who I finished reading in his/her birthday, 31 July. And I'm glad to read 2 books for Strike this year, becasuse just got this 2023's one and soon I'll be getting the 8th Book when released next Sep. So, Till then, Mohammed Arabey From 14 July 2025 To 31 July 2025

Fantastic. Dark AF though, you’ve been warned. In terms of getting the reader totally immersed, Galbraith is top tier. Can’t wait for the next one!

The best in the series yet!

Just finished it and it was a roller coaster. I couldn’t put it down. I saw many people commenting on the length and I personally thought it felt right when reading it—it didn’t feel like it dragged too much in any part and the back and forth between Robin’s and Cormoran’s chapters helped break it up a bit. I also enjoy long form, so if that isn’t your cup of tea then maybe take it by sections. As far as the plot goes it was both what I expected, but also transcended my expectations. There were a lot of small details that I found engaging and I’m looking forward to reading it again. I was not able to piece together the mystery until the very end, the twists and turns kept me guessing, so I’d call that a success!!

945 pages later - WOW. This was the most thrilling, horrifying, and fast-paced Strike book yet. I struggled so much with Robin going undercover part but also couldn’t put it down. I needed to know EVERYTHING was going to be ok. And Strike & Robin of course were ON FIRE, oh man I cannot wait for the next book!

5 🌟 in advance, I love this series with all my heart, more pages the better, 1000 pages, 2000 pages, I don't care, I want more ❤️

With this book I have reached my usual reading target of 120 books. I set my target on the low side so I don’t inadvertently start to avoid big books. This was quite a brick, but I loved every bit of it. Robin goes undercover in a mysterious and litigious cult, after a rich man comes to the agency, despairing for his son who has been in it for years. It’s a dangerous mission as there is no telling what the church might do if they discover Robin. She stays because there are so clearly wrongful things going on, but collecting evidence is difficult. Strike for his part, despite being in love with Robin, involves himself with a leggy blonde. He hates Robin’s new police boyfriend with an undeserved passion. Charlotte is still around, desperately wanting Strike back. This book has everything - a solid, complicated mystery with an evil cult at its heart and solid characters that you root for. It’s such a pleasure every time that I can be back in the company of Strike and Robin. Plus, with that ending, the next installment can’t come quickly enough!

I know I say this every time, but JKR is a MASTER storyteller! What a book! 🤌🏼 And ahhhh!! Strike and Robin moving at a glacial pace 😭 but every small moment they have makes me squee! ❤️ Now the year long wait for the next book begins..

Best one yet. And I know I say that with every new book in the series, but I mean it this time. I’d love to see a storyboard for this and also talk to JK about what inspired the plot. I have my suspicions… regardless, couldn’t put it down. Kept me guessing till the end. Standout moments were Robin sensing Strikes presence and Strikes attendance at and conversation after a cult meeting. Five stars for the dialogue in that chapter alone.

Thank you, dear JR, for writing the best Strike novel so far and also WHAT THE HELL? How evil one can be to make us wait for another bloody year or two after THAT kind of ending?!

Fabulous. Terrifying. The whole time I kept hearing bits of the SNL song, "Murder show, murder show, time to watch a murder show . . . how about cult shows? Cult shows . . ." Cults terrify me more than murderers, because they just seem so much more devious, more evil. This was truly hardcore. Stuff happened and a lot of people will never be the same again. But I don't read these books for the creepy crime, I really read them because I feel that the characters like Robin and Strike and their families and friends and co workers are so real, and I love checking in with them. This book's real MVP is Pat, and her husband Dennis, I will say no more, but I love them.

It was so good! It was also just a high stress read. I was worried immediately with the prologue and didn’t stop till the epilogue. The worry I felt for character had me up reading past midnight and then laying awake thinking about how they were going to get through this investigation unscathed. The last two pages were worth seven books to me!

Reread: Peak Strike. Thank the Lord I only have a month to wait for book 8 now. These last two years have been GRUELING. OG REVIEW: Need to sit with it for a bit, but I think this may be my favorite in the series so far. I loved the setting, stakes, plot and (as always) character work. Now the wait for book 8 begins.

I think JKR is a genius. Having excelled in creating her first Universe called Harry Potter, she succeeded in constructing a new perfect one called Strike & Robin. I hope she will let this one last longer, as it seems to be the only place nowadays where good beats evil and it's so unique, precious and appealing.

Still catching up on books I finished this spring. My apologies. THE LINCOLN HIGHWAY is a gem. I adored Amor Towles's first two novels, and I savored every moment of this one. It's 1954, and three young men and a boy are on the adventure of their lives, traveling between the Midwest and Manhattan and the Adirondacks, and while there are meticulous reasons for their incredible journey, what makes this masterpiece work are each of the characters. They have their scars and their demons and their eccentricities. Two you will want to take under your wing and adopt; one will leave you uneasy; and one just might have in him the stuff of heroism. All of them you will care about deeply. I savored this book: every page.

I feel like I’ve just been tucked in: snug as a bug in a rug, by this masterful storyteller. Towles has a way of writing that sweeps a reader away to where only the story matters. A journey of sorts - a new beginning. It’s 1954. What becomes a direct route along the Lincoln highway - which stretches from the east coast to the west- quickly becomes a backward one. Emmett, who has just finished his time in a juvenile detention, goes home for his younger brother, Billy, to begin their trip. Two other boys - Woolly and Duchess- show up the same day having escaped from the farm. And so it begins. Without going into detail, you can savour this one yourself with a brandy by the fire. The characters are unique, authentic and just as charming as the writing. If you want an adventure, you’ve arrived at the right spot. Sit back, settle in and enjoy this divine ride. And If you haven’t read A Gentleman in Moscow, I urge you do so. There is just something so mesmerizing and hypnotizing about Towles' writing that you’ll pause for a long bit after and realize what a pleasure the journey was. 5⭐️

I can’t tell you how excited I was that Amor Towles came out with a new book! And it’s a road trip!! The historic Lincoln Highway It's 1954, and 18 year old Emmett Watson has just finished serving time at a Kansas juvenile work farm for accidentally killing a boy who was bullying him. His mother abandoned their family years ago, and his father, a man haunted by his failure at farming, has just died, and the bank is poised to foreclose. Emmett doesn't mind losing his home because he's got a plan: pack up his 8 y.o. brother Billy and start a new life in Texas. But "California," says Billy, certain that's where their long-lost mother is living. They can drive the Lincoln Highway to San Francisco and be there by the 4th of July. But as it turns out, neither Texas nor California is in their immediate future. Two of Emmett's friend from the work farm, Duchess and Woolly, broke out of the facility early and propose going the opposite way, to New York City, where Woolly's large inheritance is hidden in a family safe. If Emmett takes them there, Woolly will split the cash between the four of them. Emmett is determined to stay on the right side of the law and wants nothing to do with this plan, but things happen. Well, mostly Duchess — a clever, charming and utterly self-centered young man — happens. Duchess and Woolly take off to New York with Emmett's car (not to mention Emmett's cash hidden in the trunk), and Emmett, now destitute, decides to chase them down the only way he can think of. He and Billy stow away in an empty car of a freight train heading to New York City. Their adventure is just beginning. The Lincoln Highway is one of those books that got better and better the further I got into it. Amor Towles' (author of A Gentleman in Moscow) take on mid-20th century road trip is given such an original twist here, and Towles' gift for writing shines through and takes this novel to a whole new level. The boys' adventures are related with sympathy and insight. - Questions can be so tricky, he said, like forks in the road. You can be having such a nice conversation and someone will raise a question, and the next thing you know you’re headed off in a whole new direction. In all probability, this new road will lead you to places that are perfectly agreeable, but sometimes you just want to go in the direction you were already headed. The characters are also fascinating (with the possible exception of Woolly, who never felt quite real for me). I especially like — and hated — Duchess, an unreliable narrator whose charming exterior hides a darker core, and I loved Billy, a bright and occasionally unworldly boy (I think he may be on the moderate side of the spectrum, though it's never explicitly said). One of my favorite subplots of the book involves Billy's favorite book, Professor Abacus Abernathe's Compendium of Heroes, Adventurers and Other Intrepid Travelers. When Billy meets a black wanderer named Ulysses, it feels fateful, and Billy's love for literature and faith in Ulysses' story help change the paths of several lives, including that of the book's author. He too had watched as the outer limits of his life had narrowed from the world at large, to the island of Manhattan, to that book-lined office in which he awaited with a philosophical resignation the closing of the finger and thumb. And then this . . . This! This extraordinary turn of events. A little boy from Nebraska appears at his doorstep with a gentle demeanor and a fantastical tale. A tale not from a leather-bound tome, mind you . . . But from life itself. How easily we forget—we in the business of storytelling — that life was the point all along. Highly recommended! Bonus material: Towles talks about this book here on his website and gives some fascinating insights into the plot, why he chose this particular time in history for the setting, and the book's structure, including the reason why the book's sections count down for each day rather than usual method of counting up. Original post: I'm very proud of myself for catching this one on my library's online catalog before it was even on the shelf and putting in a hold. It's now in my hands! Hoping I'll love it as much as I did A Gentleman in Moscow.

I know the year is still young but I won’t be surprised this masterful novel will be my fave 2022 read. I finished it last night on audio – no wonder it was nominated for an Audie award - at midnight and had to wait until this morning to talk about the ending with my husband who was reading the print version (he finished it at 5:30 this morning having to also wait until I awoke at seven to talk about it). This, friends, is the best book club kind of book. The kind of book whose prose is so beautiful and whose characters are so deeply drawn (Woolly!! 💕💕) and where the reader’s journey is so satisfying and multifaceted you just cannot wait to talk about it with someone when you’re done. It’s the kind of book that I am sad I won’t be able to ever read again for the first time. I’m strugglng to think of how to give you a brief synopsis of what it is about because somehow I think any attempt at that will spoil the read for you and that would be cruel. Suffice it to say that it is about a journey, as the title and cover art suggests, but not the journey you’re expecting. I am in awe of the talent that gave the world this story.

This is another beautiful and well-written tale by Amor Towles, almost as heart-warming and addictive as A Gentleman in Moscow. I loved each of the characters, their story arcs, the intersections, the bit players, the Shakespearean and Homeric references, the nostalgic atmosphere. I loved the moral lesson about too much of a particular virtue can become a disservice and even occasionally a vice that was poignantly demonstrated throughout. What surprises the reader is that we are expecting things to move in a certain direction, but it turns out to be a road trip in the opposite direction than we expect. The US of the 50s is described with beautiful nostalgia and with many interesting anecdotes and diversions. Each of the characters is fully fleshed out and the dialogs are highly realistic. It has a light tone like Gentleman, but I think that the latter has even more charming characters than this one. It really is up to you, the reader to decide. When he was halfway to the church, the twister appeared in the distance at two o'clock, dark black finger reaching down from the sky-the inversion of the steeple both in color and intent. With every step now, Ulysses's progress was slowing. There was so much debris kicking up from the ground that he had to advance with a hand in front of his face to protect his eyes. Then he was holding up both hands with his gaze partly averted, as he stumbled onward toward the upward and downward spires. Through the gaps in his fingers and the veil of the unsettled dust, Ulysses became aware of rectangular shadows rising from the ground around him, shadows that looked at once orderly and in disarray. Dropping his hands for a second, he realized he had entered a graveyard and he could hear the bell in the steeple beginning to toll, as if rung by an invisible hand. He couldn't have been more than fifty yards from the church. But in all likelihood, it was fifty yards too far. For the twister was turning counterclockwise and its winds were pushing Ulysses away from his goal rather than toward it. As hail began raining down upon him, he prepared for one final push. I can make it, he told himself. Then running with all his might, he began closing the distance between himself and the sanctuary-only to stumble over a low-lying gravestone and come crashing to the ground with the bitter resignation of the abandoned. (p. 282) As the old gent shuffled his way to the bureau, I scanned the room, curious as to his weakness. At the Sunshine Hotel, for everv room there was a weakness, and for everv weakness an artifact bearing witness. ike an empty bottle that has rolled under the bed, or a feathered deck of cards on the nightstand, or a bright pink kimono on a hook. Some evidence of that one desire so delectable, so insatiable that it overshadowed all others, eclipsing even the desires for a home, a family, or a sense of human dignity. Given how slow the old man moved I had plenty of time to look, and the room was only ten by ten, but if evidence of his weakness was present, for the life of me I couldn't spot it. (p. 520) Definitely up there as a 2022 Pulitzer contender in this reader’s opinion! Here is my 2022 Pulitzer list - please come and vote for your favorite!

After reading and loving this author's "A Gentleman In Moscow" I could hardly wait to get my hands on this novel. Set in 1950's America and spanning over 10 days, 18 yr old Emmett and his young brother Billy along with Emmett's acquaintances Duchess and Woolly set out on a road trip to California along the Lincoln Highway. The author takes the readers on a very touching and entertaining adventure!

In college a common exam question would be “Compare and Contrast”. We would often insert that phrase in conversation to mock our Professors. The phrase came to mind as I read this book. The obvious comparison is to the author’s other great novel “A Gentleman in Moscow”. The character development and the philosophical musings are similar. But a book I read earlier this year is the one I kept thinking about. “This Tender Land” by William Kent Krueger also featured 4 orphans, including a pair of brothers, on a road trip. There was a character named Ulysses, and also the character Billy from this book seemed to share a sixth sense with Emmy in Tender Land. Instead of a Studebaker and The Lincoln Highway they traveled by canoe on the Minnesota river. Unlike the other two books this one has alternating chapters from the point of view of different characters. This is a method that is bothersome at times, but here it works well. These are a distinct set of interesting and unique characters, each with their own peculiar voice. Where in A Gentleman in Moscow all the action takes place in one building this story spans half a continent. Also in this book readers will follow multiple characters instead just The Count and Sofia. This book also has several philosophical musings by characters similar to those by the Count in A Gentleman in Moscow. Sally relates the story of Jesus dismissing the complaint by Martha over her sister Mary’s idleness. She then tells about how much effort and time it takes to make a homemade Apple Pie. After setting a slice of the pie in front of her father, he gulps down half of it and continues his conversation without a word of thanks. This parable also represents Sally’s conflicted relationship with Emmett. She closes that story with a classic quote: For kindness begins where necessity ends. (Page 104). Readers who were satisfied with the ending in A Gentleman in Moscow should be satisfied with this ending. They will also enjoy the hilarious encounter that Woolly has with a Dictionary and Thesaurus. They will enjoy the characters of Professor Abacus Abernathe and Ulysses. A Gentleman in Moscow will always be a special book for me, and to compare this book with it and A Tender Land puts it in fine company. This book was every bit as good as A Gentleman in Moscow and will be the best work of fiction I will have read this year. Only one other friend has read it so far and she gave it 5 stars but did not review it. A Gentleman in Moscow was a popular and well-read book. I am looking forward to seeing how this book ranks with readers. I will be reading lots of reviews in order to “Compare and Contrast.”

Terrific! Review TK

What a fantastic book! Absorbing and thought-provoking, the wildest and highly entertaining American road trip joyride that changes lives. Full of wisdom, life, and humor, at close to 600 pages, it is a long one, but well worth the time. I adored Sally and Billy and loved the elaborate meal set up. THE LINCOLN HIGHWAY by acclaimed author, Amor Towles is a classic must-read. Highly recommend the audiobook narrated by: Edoardo Ballerini, Marin Ireland, and Dion Graham. I also purchased the hardcover which is a classic for any home library. Set in 1954, the book begins with 18-year-old Emmett Watson. He is released from a juvenile work farm in Kansas and driven home by a warden to the town in Nebraska, after his father's death. Emmett is a hard worker and knows carpentry and wants nothing more than to head to Texas so he can get back into real estate and flip houses. Their family farm is now under foreclosure due to their dad's issues with money. So this is time to start over. They have nothing but his vintage Studebaker. After going to the library and checking the Encyclopaedia Britannica he thinks Texas would be a good place to start over with his younger brother. He has a younger eight-year-old little brother, Billy. Readers will fall in love with him. Very smart. Billy wants them to make a road trip and move to California. Their mother left them years ago and for a time she sent postcards along the Lincoln Highway. Billy thinks she will be waiting for them. That was eight years ago. Also, Billy has it in his mind they need to reach California by July 4th since that was a favorite holiday of his mom's. However, they are about to leave on their road trip, and fate steps in. There are many challenges and their trip is derailed when two guys show up at the farm. The two (Wooly and Duchess were hiding in the trunk of the car). They have a different plan. So now they have two extra guys on their road trip. Emmett's plan is to drop them at the bus station and then he and his brother will continue their trip, but fate has something different in mind. Along the way, there is a complex game of cat and mouse. Duchess is an interesting character that Billy likes. However, they must watch for him. He also believes in life there are checks and balances. Duchess has a plan to go to NY and grab the $150k from the safe in Wooly's family home (family trust). However, that will involve stealing Emmett's car, leaving Billy and Emmett on their own to catch a ride on a freight train, since they have no money. There they run into more problems with a pastor trying to steal Billy's coin collection, and then on the train, they meet Ulysses, a Black veteran who comes to their rescue, who has been riding the rails since his own family disappeared during WWII plus more characters. The author keeps readers hanging on every word. Set over a ten-day period of time we hear from each character. Each character is chasing their own dreams and their past and present connect sons, fathers, brothers, and strangers. We see evil as well as kindness. Hope and failure. Often the sidekicks can be as important as family. It is all about the journey. Themes: race, class, gender, and mental illness - handed down throughout generations. The novel also has a Gatsby-like vibe. A tour de force, well constructed, and beautifully written soulful story. Anyone who loves reflection, nostalgia, lyrical prose, excellent storytelling, coming-of-age, and literary fiction, will enjoy this compulsively readable novel. Blog Review: www.JudithDCollins.com @JudithDCollins | #JDCMustReadBooks My Rating:🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 Pub Date: Oct 5, 2021

I have hesitated writing this review because so many beautiful reviews have been written about this book.What could I add? And so, as I pondered I realized the very best thought I could share with you is that I look forward to the day when I will read it again. In the meantime the characters are tucked deeply in my heart.The storyline continues to sneak into my day capturing my thoughts with its adventure,romance,suspense,and history. Oh, i loved it so! I did not want it to come to an end. So now my friends,perhaps you can understand why I am happy that it will occupy a shelf in my library. Just to see it out of the corner of my eye will make me warm inside...and yes, I know that it is waiting there for me to open and be swept away into my beloved world of Amor Towles Lincoln Highway once more.

I was irritated it took me 17 days to finish this book, now I’m glad, for without it, the last 17 days would have been much worse. Thank you Towles.

Emmett is the big brother I always wanted, and Billy is the little brother anyone might want. Duchess is the friend no one wants, and Woolly is the friend everyone should have. Loved these characters!

My Favorite Mystery/Thriller for 2024 When I ordered this book from my local library, I didn’t know what kind of book I was going to be reading. I just knew it was a Baldacci book, and that is all that mattered to me. And, I can’t believe I didn’t put this in my ‘currently reading’ pile. Oh well. Believe it or not, I have been reading it. It is a book to be reckoned with, in all its 477 pages. But before I get in to discussion of it, back to Baldacci. I love all his characters. And, who knew if it was going to be someone from the past, or someone new. I just knew I had already developed my relationships with, Atlee Pine, Aloysius Archer, Amos Decker, Alex Jamison, Travis Devine, Will Robie, John Puller, Sean King, Michelle Maxwell and Oliver Stone. I never expected to be taken into a historical fiction courtroom drama with two new characters to add to my personal “love” list. But here I was. Ready and willing. And, to be honest, my heart was on fire from page one. And, that even included the ‘Author’s Note.’ “I wish we lived in a world that was just and equal for all, and that lawyers could concentrate on being simply lawyers and not spokespersons for a cause. …and we can all rise high or fall low, but we should all be judged by the same standard. That is the only way we can move forward as a country, as a people.” This is a stand-alone featuring two new characters in 1968 Freeman County, Virginia, a hotbed county, and area of the state, filled with hate and prejudice. We meet Jack Lee a white lawyer who is given a case to defend a black couple, Jerome and Pearl Washington that have been accused of killing a rich white couple. And, when we are talking the south, it doesn’t look like they are going to get a very fair chance at trial with a Judge that has Ku Klux Klan leanings, George Wallace poised to run for President and an all-white jury. To help Jack on the case is Desiree DuBose a Black lawyer from Chicago who is fierce about justice and equality. What will this team discover? Will they be able to overcome these odds? As I turned pages and read, I couldn’t help but feel the 60’s past and today’s present merging too closely together. I wanted to cry out in frustration and sadness that something was wrong – that there was a time machine that had made a mistake – that thought that 2024 was 1968 all over again and to please let me blink myself awake to a better more thoughtful, just present. That I must be dreaming. And then, I got out of my head and reminded myself I was within the pages of a really excellent story with solid character development. It was describing the 1960’s south realistically. The courtroom drama was spectacular and dramatic and real-feeling. There will be much to digest within these pages. Be patient. It will be worth the journey. This story is fresh and intense, and thrilling, and showcases the human corruptness. I can only hope that this is just the beginning of Dubose and Lee as future characters and fighters of justice in an upcoming Baldacci series. Also, I recommend that everyone read the ‘Author’s Note’ at the beginning. It is heart-felt and timely. What he shares at the end of it, which makes even more sense once it is read and digested, I think is worth including… “I wanted each to learn from the other, and …to eventually find mutual respect and empathy for one another. In the end, what can we strive for that is more vital, for all of us?”

You know those books that just get into your heart? A Calamity of Souls is one of those books. When I wasn’t reading it, I was thinking about it. I am a big David Baldacci fan, but this stand alone may be his best yet. It is a big book, at almost 500 pages but it is worth every word. Jack Lee, a white attorney in southern Virginia in 1968. He has never worked a murder case before, but he knows it is the right thing to do in this case. A black man has been arrested and accused of murdering his employers, a rich, elderly white couple. This was a time when the colour of your skin was still judged, and most people believe the man to be guilty. Aided by black, Chicago lawyer, Desiree DeBose, he is determined to do everything he can to save his client and prove his innocence. Now this is a tough book to read. The language and attitudes are of the time, and glue author acknowledges that at the very start. He tells us that this book took him 10 years to complete. The writing is beautiful, it transports you back to that time in every way. I cried, I laughed, I got very very angry. I loved it so much. This is a book that you just have to read. The characters are realistic, they feel like people you want to either be friends with or ones that you want to give a piece of your mind to. Thank you so much to Macmillan Australia for sending me an early copy to read. Published in Australia March 26th and the US in mid April.

A Calamity of Souls is David Baldacci’s best work to date and arguably his most important. Set in southern Virginia in 1968, a black man is accused of viscously murdering a wealthy, white older couple in their home. The case is a flash point following the Civil Rights Act is passed and gathers national attention, including a presidential candidate. Attorney Jack Lee – the pride of Freeman County, VA and local legend – has been a bystander to racism his entire life and never did anything about it. Until now. Despite never trying a murder case, the backlash of the community, and the not-so-veiled threats, Jack agrees to represent the black man. Teaming up with a black, female attorney, the unlikely pair must confront racism head-on – inside the courtroom and out – to keep an innocent man from the electric chair. A Calamity of Souls is an emotional rollercoaster. It’s not an easy read by any means. It’s tragic, heartbreaking, and hopeful. It forces the reader to confront our past, the present and ultimately our future. A Calamity of Souls might be set in 1968 but could easily take place today. The similarities are striking and maddening. A Calamity of Souls should be required reading for everyone and has my highest recommendation. Thank you to Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley for the privilege to read an advanced copy of A Calamity of Souls!.

One of the BEST BOOKS EVER WRITTEN! Best 10 books of ALL TIME! Perfect for fans of A Time To Kill and To Kill A Mockingbird This is a historical fiction legal thriller. It’s 1968 in Freeman County, VA. A very prominent and wealthy white couple has been murdered. The accused is Jerome Washington, a black man who is also their handyman. Enter Jack Lee, a white lawyer who takes on the case. Can you guess where this is going? David Baldacci’s best work to date! A stunning tale about a racially charged murder case that is not to be missed. Massive thanks to Grand Central Pub for my gorgeous copy! ALL THE ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ I paired the audiobook with my physical copy.

For a full spoiler version of this review, please check out my blog, spoiledbooks.blogspot.com A Calamity of Souls by David Baldacci — A Legal Thriller with Heart Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Wow. Just… wow. This was my first Baldacci, and I’m officially a fan for life. Set in the 1960s Deep South, it’s a courtroom drama that punches you in the gut, then makes you root for justice like your life depends on it. The story follows Jack Lee, a lawyer thrown into his first murder case, teaming up with the brilliant Desiree DuBose to defend a man wrongfully accused. The stakes are high, the twists hit hard, and the heartbreak is real. You’ll feel every triumph, every injustice, and yes… some gut-wrenching heartbreak too. Perfect for fans of: courtroom thrillers with moral weight, historical justice stories, and character-driven drama.

Well this was fantastic. When I tell you though, this brought out so much anger in me. Like… I felt so much rage reading this whole thing… but Baldacci is doing such an amazing job that it made me feel such strong emotions. I also sort of feel like I’m a little emotionally charged these days any way… but still… Set in Virginia in 1968, white defense attorney, Jack Lee, surprisingly takes on the case of Jerome Washington who is a black man accused of murdering a wealthy white couple. Jack has all the odds stacked against him, but he meets Desiree DuBose, an accomplished black lawyer from Chicago. The two set out to seek justice, but as I said… due to the horrific racial prejudices they are up against… ugh… I can’t say any more. This book was incredible. An easy 5 stars… but boy… I just will never understand… how people can be so cruel… site this is fiction… but I imagine the true reality of that time was probably even worse… and even TODAY… we are still dealing with racism… and it seems even more blatant than ever… whether it’s learned behavior or not… I’m so tired of hate… I really am. It’s been weighing on me lately.

This book is like a whirlwind of emotions wrapped up in a gripping tale of justice and redemption. From the very first page, I was drawn into a world where the echoes of racism reverberate through every facet of society, and justice feels like an elusive dream. Jack Lee, a white lawyer from Freeman County, Virginia, embarks on a journey that challenges his beliefs and forces him to confront the pervasive racism that has long plagued his community. Representing Jerome Washington, a Black man accused of a heinous crime, Jack grapples with doubt and fear as he navigates a legal system stacked against him and his client. And then there's Desiree DuBose, the fierce and fabulous lawyer from Chicago who swoops in to shake things up. She's like a breath of fresh air in Jack's world, and their partnership is like watching a buddy cop movie—I couldn't get enough of their banter and camaraderie. Together, they face off against formidable adversaries, both in the courtroom and beyond, as they fight for a fair trial and true justice. Baldacci's storytelling prowess shines brightly in "A Calamity of Souls." This novel is not merely a tale of legal battles; it is a poignant exploration of race, power, and the enduring struggle for equality. With each turn of the page, I found myself captivated, enraged, and deeply moved by the profound themes and richly drawn characters. This book is more than just a gripping read—it is a catalyst for reflection and dialogue on the pressing issues of racism and discrimination in society. Baldacci's masterful narrative weaves together intricate layers of emotion and insight, leaving a lasting impact on the reader. Honestly, "A Calamity of Souls" is more than just a book—it's an experience. It's like going on a wild adventure with characters you can't help but root for, and coming out the other side feeling like you've been through something truly special. David Baldacci has outdone himself with this one, and I can't recommend it enough.

“A wise woman once told me, that if you let the bully win, he never goes away”. 5 solid ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ ⭐️ Phenomenal!! Set in 1968 in Virginia, Jack Lee, a white lawyer is compelled to defend a husband and wife (Jerome and Pearl Washington) who are accused of the murder of a wealthy white couple. Jack thinks he is out of his depth, having never tried a murder case before, and a case as prominent as this is going to be hitting the headlines. Sprinkle in an all white jury, a judge who used to be a member of the KKK, racial prejudice at every turn, and the reinstatement of the electric chair for this case, and Jack wonders what he’s got himself into. Then in walks Desiree DuBose, a black lawyer from Chicago who is passionate about equality and justice, and is a force to be reckoned with. She is not afraid to speak her mind and stand up for what she believes in. She works alongside Jack in fighting for justice. I’ve never read a David Baldacci novel before, so I didn’t know what to expect. I’m so glad I’ve now experienced this author, because I’ll certainly be reading more of his work. This book was outstanding, it will obviously draw comparisons to Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird and the author acknowledges this within the story. It’s way more than a legal thriller, it’s character led and an important historical novel. The racial inequalities still shock me to the core, and I don’t know why in this day and age I’m surprised, but I am. The story closely follows Jack and Desiree while they fight to stop two innocent people from getting the death penalty, and while I would suggest that they are the main characters, there are some very strong supporting characters too. There is obviously Jerome and Pearl, but we really get to know Jack’s family - his parents and siblings which have their own backstory. There is also Queenie the dog. 🐶 It’s an extremely powerful, tragic and heartbreaking story and it will really make you stop and think. I was totally engrossed, the narration was superb, each of the narrators really got under the skin of the characters and brought them to life brilliantly well. It’s a story that will stay with me for a long, long time.

Master storyteller David Baldacci returns following series The Edge (The 6:20 Man #2) and Simply Lies (Mickey Gibson #1) with his latest riveting standalone, A CALAMITY OF SOULS. Set during the desegregation of the South, a gripping courtroom drama of racial injustice and suspense combined with a gripping family drama that will leave you breathless until the final page is turned! I have been a long-time fan of the author—whether a series or standalone, A CALAMITY OF SOULS is one of my favorites. Baldacci at his finest! 5 Stars + and Top Books of 2024! Set in 1968, in Virginia, as the book opens, we meet a hardworking Black Vietnam veteran, Jerome Washington, husband and father, accused and arrested for the murder of his white employers, Leslie and Anne Randolph. They are two of the most prominent wealthy family members in the segregated Freeman County. Jerome had been with the couple for many years and was washing their Buick. He entered the home to pick up his weekly pay when he found them covered in blood. He tried to help by moving them off the floor. Then, the cops arrived and handcuffed him immediately. A setup? It appears he is taking the fall for someone; however, in this county, a Black man's word is no good. Who will believe him? He is beaten and already assumed guilty when he is innocent due to his color. Miss Jessup (Black) was Ashby's maid, cook, and nurse (their lawyer neighbor), and everyone knew her. She was a relative of Jerome's family. Jack Lee remembered her when he was a boy delivering the paper. She reached out to Jack Lee to represent Jerome. Jack Lee, who is just turning 33, is a young local white criminal defense attorney who agrees to take the case. He is unmarried, drives a Fiat, and is eight years out of law school. Lucy, his sister at 37, was born with a deformity after their mother was given a sedative due to an impacted wisdom tooth when she was unaware she was pregnant. He also had a brother, Jeff. His family believed in kindness and respect, whether you're black, white, rich, or poor. As Jack becomes engrossed in the case, everyone is against him with much prejudice, and he soon realizes he is out of his element. However, his salvation came when Desiree DuBose, a Black lawyer from Chicago sent by the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, arrived to assist Jack with the case. She is smart and has devoted her life to helping with the justice and equality of her clients. The two lawyers begin working together to defend Jerome against an unjust and unfair town, fighting them at every turn. They work well together even though different. They have to put on their investigation hats and dig deep in a race against time when the local cops are not that helpful and want to hang Jerome. However, they know he is innocent and has a family and daughters to get back to. Who is the real murderer, and why are they allowing an innocent man to take the fall? What was the motive? Both Jack and Desiree are in danger, and the racists will stop at nothing to keep them from working on the case, even getting to the families. Jack learns to respect Desiree and admires her when he has barely left his state and has never flown. She has been everywhere representing those in need of a fair trial. It is the two of them against an entire town of racial injustice and prejudice. After losing their office and other lives, rather than giving up, they are more determined to bring justice to the forefront and save Jerome. Two lawyers, black and white, fight against a deeply unfair system as they work to defend their wrongfully accused Black defendant. However, there is a final twist and more surprises you do not see coming, which will leave your jaw dropping in this heartbreaking suspense. A CALAMITY OF SOULS is a high-octane, action-packed, and moving legal thriller during the civil rights movement. Timely, critical, and essential reading. Even though fictional, the stories are real, then and now. I loved this book and its well-developed characters you care about and root for. Gripping, character-driven, and plot-driven, with intense courtroom scenes, a stellar blending of historical, legal, psychological, and family drama. Baldacci fans will devour, as well as Grisham, Connelly, Turow, Eskens, Hart, and Dugoni fans. Thank you, David, for telling this moving story, which has been a long time in the making. No one could have said it better. The author's expertise as an award-winning author. former lawyer, and growing up in the area during this period, shines through on each page, making the characters come alive. A CALAMITY OF SOULS is exceptional and would make a superb movie or TV series. I hope we see more of Jack and Desiree in the future. Ideal for book clubs and further discussions. I highly recommend it! Thank you, Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley, for a digital early reading review copy. I also pre-ordered the audiobook and cannot wait to listen with narrators MacLeod Andrews (favorite), Sisi Aisha Johnson, Kiiri Sandy, and Cary Hite. The hardcover is a must for your home library! A classic. Blog review posted @ JudithDCollins.com @JudithDCollins | #JDCMustReadBooks My Rating: 5 Stars + Pub Date: April 16, 2024 April 2024 Must-Read Books April Newsletter Top Books of 2024

My favorite novel of the year so far! I loved everything about it including the beautiful title. A powerful combination of historical fiction, courtroom drama, mystery, and family relationships, but most importantly, an insightful look at racism in the Old American South, very reminiscent of To Kill a Mockingbird by Harper Lee. The story is set in Freeman County, Virginia, in 1968, the year Dr Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy were both assassinated. It's just four years since the passing of The Civil Rights Act but little has changed for the people, school busing is just beginning and racial tension is high. It is in this uneasy atmosphere that local attorney, John Robert Lee, agrees to defend Jerome Washington, a black handyman accused of killing his wealthy white employers, Leslie and Anne Randolph. That alone is enough to set off any number of problems for 'Jack' and his family but the case also awakens the interest of some big-time politicians on both sides of the race issue, creating a media storm. Into this mess walks a high-profile Black attorney, Desiree DuBose, an answer to Jack's prayers. She works for the Legal Defense Fund, goes where she is needed and has handled over two dozen capital murder cases, so she brings courtroom experience of this type where Jack has none. It's hard to put this novel down--easily one of Baldacci's best works. Great characterizations with a stunning understanding of how good people can do such evil things. I'm looking forward to see where the author takes the team of DuBose and Lee next. I received an arc of this new thriller from the author and publisher via NetGalley. Many thanks for the opportunity. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

For the last couple of years, Baldacci has been producing two books a year (and sometimes even three) and focusing most of his attention on his series characters of Amos Decker (Memory Man), Atlee Pine, Aloysius Archer, and Travis Devine (6:20 Man). This time Baldacci steps outside of his current day thrillers to write a one-off set during one of the most tumultuous and politically changing times in U.S. history. This one’s personal and reflects much of what Baldacci felt and experienced growing up in the deep South during the sixties. “A Calamity of Souls” takes place in small town southern Virginia. The year is 1968. Martin Luther King Jr. has been assassinated. Former Alabama governor, George Wallace is running for president and has the South’s support in segregation and “Jim Crow” policies during the Civil Rights era. Racial relations are a hot bed of social conflict across the different regions of a country trying to resolve their feelings about the Vietnam war. This is the story of Jack Lee, and Desiree DuBose, two lawyers from entirely different backgrounds, experiences, and beliefs. Jack Lee is a 33-year-old, white lawyer living in Freeman County, Virginia. Jack has never really had to deal with racism directly, and therefore, never had to stand up or push back against it. That is until Jerome Washington, a Black man is charged with brutally killing a wealthy, elderly white couple. Jerome’s family knows Jack’s family and begs him to defend Jerome. Jack accepts, but is immediately stonewalled, threatened, and attacked by his own County’s law enforcement and legal system. Realizing that his case is quickly developing into a murder trial where the stakes are taking on not only a capital punishment outcome, but a fiery national impact, Jerome realizes his skills may not be enough to win against a prejudiced system. Enter Desiree DuBose, a successful Black lawyer from Chicago who has not only devoted her professional life to seeking equality and justice for those who’s skin is a different color. Desiree has successful won arguments before the Supreme Court and works for a national group trying to protect citizen rights throughout the country. Desiree arrives in Freeman County with the intent to take over Jake’s case and use her experience to try and win Jerome’s freedom. However, Jack is making a stand and won’t give up his case, finally agreeing to partner with her as co-counsels. Their differences are immediately brought to the forefront as they begin a conflicting and awkward partnership seeking for the same outcome – saving a man from being sentenced to death. Desiree and Jack are facing an impossible task. They are up against not only the best and most experienced prosecutors in the state of Virgina and a corrupt legal system, but they are also facing an angry and divided town ready to explode… This is Baldacci at his topnotch best – a courtroom and legal thriller that exemplifies all of his creative strengths. A mix of John Grisham and S.A. Cosby, a touch of “To Kill a Mockingbird, and Baldacci’s fast-paced storytelling excellence make for a demanding and uncomfortable read. This is also a different kind of Baldacci novel, immersed in political and social history that reflects a country divided and at war with itself. It is an ugly America, trying to hide its biggest problems – racial inequality, decency, and respect – and hold back progress and development. Baldacci doesn’t shy away or pull back from the reality of the hard timed during this era of U.S. history. As a matter of fact, he attacks it with visceral stories and lessons of what living in that period was like if you were white or black, and the vast system of racial injustice that existed for those who’s skin color was not white. Baldacci does not sugarcoat in any way what was a brutal and embarrassing time when fairness was not the same for everyone. You can tell that much of the main character, Jack Lee, is based on Baldacci, his own life and personal experiences (this has been confirmed in several of his public interviews). You can feel his private frustrations, guilt, and even anger come out in this one. I especially loved the historical events, laws, and social customs throughout the novel that hit me hard on an emotional level. One thing that I would note, is that I usually get pulled into a Baldacci novel immediately, easily devouring the first three or four chapters before I even realize it. However, that was not the case with this one. The first chapter or two was a bit rough and overly dramatic in its writing style. Some sentences and phrases were overly dramatic and over-the-top, which is unusual and unexpected for Baldacci. It felt like he was trying too hard to provide a history lesson and be critical of the unfair racial, while at the same time introduce a compelling murder mystery against that backdrop. The good news is that after those beginning chapters, Baldacci settled down and got into his storytelling groove that we all love and enjoy, and never looked back. His characters, storylines, and setting (location and history) were compelling and gripping. In his interviews, he commented that he had been working on this book for like ten years or so, and it was very personal to him. Both of those shown through in this serious novel that trades escapism for a serious historical social lesson on the absolute importance of equality and respect for everyone. As Baldacci alluded to, this is the kind of book that could only be written by an experienced and mature writer, as well as by someone who personally experienced and understood the very critical issues being written about. He checks both of those boxes. Baldacci knows his characters and he makes us care about them intimately and personally. For an author that produces two books a year, Baldacci shows that he hasn’t lost his ability to create intricate plotting, character depth, and pacing. Overall, “A Calamity of Souls” is an uncomfortable journey back in time when things were different and America was at war with itself over racial equality, dignity, and respect. The very values that our country was founded on. It is not intended to be a comfortable and escapist read, and shouldn’t be treated that way. This historical legal thriller comes with a serious reminder that those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. Baldacci challenges us to remember our ugly history and do better moving forward. It’s never too late to take a personal inventory and make any necessary changes needed. Lesson well delivered.

This book was hard to read due to the subject matter. It evoked anger many times - which is par for the course when reading about racial prejudice. The sixties were definitely a turbulent time. I was a child in 1968 and remember only a little of the disparity of those times. But, what I do remember was that Blacks lived on a different side of town and did not intermingle with whites. I grew up in Maryland and can't remember a single Black in my elementary school classes. In high school in North Carolina I do remembered only one Black in my honors courses. Integration did not happen quickly or easily. I'm so glad that times have changed for the better, at least in the area I live in now. I hope that is true everywhere, but I'm sure it probably isn't. Description: Set in the tumultuous year of 1968 in southern Virginia, a racially-charged murder case sets a duo of white and Black lawyers against a deeply unfair system as they work to defend their wrongfully-accused Black defendants in this courtroom drama from #1 New York Times bestselling author David Baldacci. Jack Lee is a white lawyer from Freeman County, Virginia, who has never done anything to push back against racism, until he decides to represent Jerome Washington, a Black man charged with brutally killing an elderly and wealthy white couple. Doubting his decision, Lee fears that his legal skills may not be enough to prevail in a case where the odds are already stacked against both him and his client. And he quickly finds himself out of his depth when he realizes that what is at stake is far greater than the outcome of a murder trial. Desiree DuBose is a Black lawyer from Chicago who has devoted her life to furthering the causes of justice and equality for everyone. She comes to Freeman County and enters a fractious and unwieldy partnership with Lee in a legal battle against the best prosecutor in the Commonwealth. Yet DuBose is also aware that powerful outside forces are at work to blunt the victories achieved by the Civil Rights era. Lee and DuBose could not be more dissimilar. On their own, neither one can stop the prosecution’s deliberate march towards a guilty verdict and the electric chair. But together, the pair fight for what once seemed impossible: a chance for a fair trial and true justice. Over a decade in the writing, A Calamity of Souls breathes richly imagined and detailed life into a bygone era, taking the reader through a world that will seem both foreign and familiar. My Thoughts: This book brings forward the turbulent times of the 1960s. It is always difficult to stand up for what is right when so many are opposed. This was a gripping, gut-wrenching trial from start to finish. The book grabbed me from the start and I couldn't put it down. I was fully invested the entire time. I have nothing but admiration for the two attorney, Lee and Dubose, for their dedication and persistence. Baldacci is a masterful storyteller! Thanks to Grand Central Publishing through Netgalley for an advance copy.

What can I say - this novel lived up to my expectations. Highly recommend what is bound to be a classic and one that will be among my favorite reads of the year. A Calamity of Souls was a well-written, gripping mystery and courtoom drama set in 1968 Virginia about Jerome, a Black man who was on trial for the murder of a wealthy elderly white couple. Defending Jerome was Jack Lee, a young white lawyer and his co-counsel, Desiree, an African American experienced lawyer. The trial was set amidst the turbulent year of 1968 when political and racial tensions were high and discrimination was rampant. This was described very authentically in the novel as it really felt like you had gone back in time and place. It was hard to read just how blatant, violent and systemic the discrimination was, including in the police and justice system. Equally insidious were the subtle ways in which racism had been unconsciously ingrained as a natural way of thinking among so many families such as Jack’s. There were so many things I enjoyed about this novel. The story started off with a bang and unfolded at a good pace, interweaving the laywers’ investigative work as well as the impact of the trial on Jack’s parents and his siblings. The courtroom scenes were interesting (the author was a trial lawyer) and there were some good twists and a hopeful ending. The only thing that I thought could have added to the novel was perhaps seeing more of the story through the eyes of Jerome and his family. Having said that, this is a timely novel that I think is bound to become a classic. The author said that it took him 10 years to write and the care he spent writing it shines through.

More than anything else, this story - which the author says he started to write more than a decade ago - provides an unsettling look at a part of our history that these days, IMHO, many folks seem to want to shove under the rug where, also IMHO, it doesn't belong. And yes, it tends to get a bit "preachy" in spots, but if the message brings edification to just a few readers, that's fine by me. Set in 1968 in Virginia, where some residents are trying to live with new laws that protect the rights of some others (some accepting, others not so much), it centers on Jack Lee, a white lawyer who finds himself representing a Black man charged with the gruesome murder of a wealthy, elderly husband and wife. The second the man was found near the dead bodies, he was presumed guilty by virtually all the powers-that-be; so without hard evidence to the contrary, the man is destined for a lifetime behind bars at best. And while Jack is a talented, experienced attorney, he's never dealt with a capital case - much less the blowback from those who believe his client has no real standing as a human being and therefore doesn't deserve someone to defend him (certainly not a white man). The situation gets what could be a bit of a break with the appearance of Desiree DuBose, a seasoned Black lawyer from Chicago who's made a name for herself with exactly this type of case. She and Jack form a somewhat uneasy alliance, both knowing that without the other, the defendant cannot possibly get a fair trial. Quickly, though, they realize that outside of a couple of personal friends, the two of them are the only ones inside the courtroom who give a rip about fairness. To everyone else, their client is Black, guilty as charged and deserves to die - the sooner the better. As do, apparently, those who dare to try to prevent that from happening. Of course, the backstories of the client, Jerome Washington, Jack and his family and Desiree add enlightenment to this complex story - as do the efforts of the aforesaid powers-that-be to "convince" Jack and Desiree to back off and allow the natural order of things to remain the status quo (this is the deep South, after all). More than that I can't say without giving too much away except that it's an exceptionally well-written book that's worth reading. Especially now.

**** 7/16/24 **** Just finished this 14-hour audiobook, easily listened to on faster speed. Baldacci surprised me with the ending, but I'm still giving this a solid 5 stars as pretty much a historical fiction/legal thriller dealing with 1960s racism and sexism. The portrayal of the primary protagonists made it feel modern, and I could actually see a legal series based on them. Baldacci fans will root for the good guys here. **** 7/15/24 **** I'm a big Baldacci fan - somehow his mix of plot + character development fits my reading style well - and Calamity of Souls is no different. We are confronted with 1960's era racism in a legal thriller that is very believable, and sadly, still rings true in many ways. The characters are people who are a mix of very flawed to successful, proud, tough, brave people, and as readers we root for the underdog legally, professionally, and romantically. Baldacci provides a self-narrated introduction that is partly an explanation for some of the distasteful, but accurate, language used in the novel, and partly about his motivation to write the book, and how important he feels the message is. I'm listening to the audio version, which is amazing, and includes a veritable cast of narrators, with very high production value (a testament to the power of Baldacci's popularity & economic impact to the publishing industry). So far, so good, and I'll update my review upon completion.

Wow! This book was EXCELLENT!! Sometimes 5 stars is just not enough! It’s the kind of work that leaves an imprint on your soul when you’re finished. I did the audiobook on this one, and it was great! The narrators were spectacular! And, as you’ve probably seen in all the other reviews, this is a legal thriller - and boy does Baldacci deliver! It is an emotional rollercoaster. It’s not an easy read by any means….as it’s tragic and heartbreaking. It’s not merely a tale of legal battles - it is an exposé of race, power, and the struggle for equality. It’s almost an updated sequel to, “To Kill a Mockingbird”. I found myself captivated, enraged, and deeply moved by the story line and richly drawn characters. It can be very uncomfortable at times, as it forces us to confront our past, as well as the present. Baldacci’s story telling transports you - and you feel what it must have been like in Virginia in 1968. I’ve been with Baldacci since the beginning, and I’ve read most all of his books, and if you’re a fan of his, you are definitely not going to want to miss this one! So different from his usual characters and themes. Well thought-out, well researched, and well crafted. If this book is on your TBR list, I highly recommend you get a copy and put it next-up on your list! It very well could be his best one yet!

My first time reading a book by Baldacci. I have heard great things about this author, and I'm so happy that I finally got to one of his books. This book was excellent. I loved it. It was fast paced, suspenseful, and gripping. I flew through it. This one pulled on my emotions and had me rooting for justice. What a story!! Definitely recommend this one. This is a legal thriller taking place in Virginia in 1968. Jack Lee, a white attorney, takes on a racially charged murder case of a black man that is being tried for killing the older white couple he worked for. He's never tried a murder case before, and he gets a large negative reaction from the community. He teams up with a black female attorney, Desiree, who's know for fighting for equality, and the unlikely duo work the case together. Out April 16. Thank you to the publisher and netgalley for the gifted copy. All opinions are my own!

I could read a story like this every day of the week and never get sick of it. The depth of writing … incredible. It says it took David 10 years to write this story and I believe it. The level of character development and organization of this story without making it confusing was top tier. This action packed court case crime & mystery thriller had me on the edge of my seat. I felt the soul and foundation of what this story was and what it represented. It was incredibly impactful. The racially backed issues faced in the late 60’s are still somewhat evident in today’s society and it makes you speechless at the fact that all these years later people chose hate in a world where it can be so easy to love everyone. No matter what race. This book is perfection- no notes.

Best book I’ve read in a long while.

great read This book was excellent! Somewhat different than his other books I’ve read, less politics involved and more character oriented. Great look into Southern life in the sixties in the South. Glad to see the world has evolved from that way of life.

1968. Racism, blind hatred in the south. A fictional murder trial with white victims and black defendants. All white jury. A state prosecutor is brought in from the capitol to try the case. So is the judge who orders the trial to proceed in 2 weeks. Throw in a sharp black female defense lawyer and a local white male defense lawyer. Some key witnesses for the prosecution seem suspicious. Things get heated up in the courtroom. Tempers flare. A great trial blow by blow for the last maybe 1/3rd of the audiobook. I was 10 years old and grew up in the non-prejudiced north in 1968. But I do remember the violent sights on the 6 o’clock news. The novel does an excellent job setting the tone I think.

Wow! Such an impactful book with an essential message. David Baldacci worked on this book for over a decade. Many critics say this is the book he was born to write. I'm actually speechless at this story he told based on his research and time growing up in the South. Set in 1968, four years after the Civil Rights Act was passed, Baldacci eloquently shows deep-seated racism in the justice system, law enforcement, and society. My favorite quote is by Jack Lee: "Why do we just focus on our differences when there is so much more we have in common." This book will stay with me for a long time, and this quote is how we should strive to live our lives as global citizens.

Five calamitous stars

If you haven’t read this book, you’re missing out. Set in southern Virginia in 1968, where Jim Crow and segregation and hatred for Blacks runs rampant. A Black man and wife are accused of murdering a prominent elderly white couple. It’s very reminiscent of early John Grisham but is fantastic on its own merit.

Not your usually Baldacci book, Great read

This was an awesome read. A truly powerful historic story.

Think 'To Kill a Mockingbird". Despite being a challenging read (language, attitudes, racism), this stand-alone may be his best yet (given it took Baldacci ten years to write). Jack Lee is a white attorney in southern Virginia in 1968, one who has never worked on a murder case before. A black man is arrested and accused of murdering his employers, a wealthy, elderly white couple. Set when the colour of your skin decides your guilt before the judicial system even gets involved. Aided by black Chicago lawyer Desiree DeBose, Jack is determined to do everything to prove his client's innocence. The language and attitudes are of the time, and the author acknowledges this at the beginning. The writing is beautiful, emotive, meaningful, accurate and often heartbreaking to read. It is a big book, almost 500 pages long, but it is worth every minute of reading.

Impactful, atmospheric, and hauntingly realistic! A Calamity of Souls is a fast-paced, sinister tale that takes you into the life of small-town white attorney Jack Lee as he suddenly finds himself partnering with the well-known, indomitable Black lawyer Desiree DuBose on the case of his life when he agrees to defend Jerome Washington, a local Black man who, after being found near the bodies of an influential white couple, is automatically presumed guilty. The prose is gritty and descriptive. The characters are vulnerable, raw, and impulsive. And the plot is an immersive, absorbing tale of life, loss, poverty, familial drama, friendship, courage, morality, loyalty, community, self-preservation, bigotry, racial injustice, violence, and murder. Overall, A Calamity of Souls is a sincere, ominous, pensive tale by Baldacci that not only highlights the ugliness and weakness of group mentality and the ease with which it allows one to behave with ignorance, intolerance, and even participate in the most unforgivable of crimes, but also reminds us that kindness and compassion is the base of humanity that should ultimately always transcend skin colour and socioeconomic status.

Amazing read. 10 stars if it was an option!! It’s one that we should all read but yes, it’s hard to stomach much of it. I do think it’s important this book is read, for all generations. Though it’s fiction, it’s in many ways very much reality of the past and that needs to be acknowledged. The racial injustice and divide in our country is in many ways still here; just in different forms. No matter your feelings on politics, the civil war happened and will and SHOULD affect all of us and how we treat each other- no matter the color of your skin. This book broke my heart but it was so beautifully written and invoked so much emotion. Does it have a happy ending? That depends on you, really. 🤍

A small town with a small town mentality and the young adults that are trying to build their own narrative of how they want their town to evolve.

Debose. My new favorite character! This should be a must read for anyone that has a pulse! What a moving story.

A CALAMITY OF SOULS by David Baldacci is a gripping courtroom drama set in 1968 southern Virginia, revolving around a racially charged murder case. The story follows a dynamic pair of lawyers—one white and one black—as they navigate an unfair and prejudiced legal system to defend their innocent black clients. Baldacci masterfully crafts well-developed characters and maintains a fast-paced narrative that keeps readers on the edge of their seats. This compelling tale of justice, prejudice, and resilience resonates deeply, making it a must-read for anyone who appreciates powerful storytelling. Everyone in my book club loved it and couldn’t put it down! I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book. All opinions are my own.

Baldacci's best since Wish You Well. Powerful and brilliant!

Hands down my favorite David Baldacci book this far. I was not expecting all of this when I requested it from NetGalley, but I knew I couldn’t fail getting a Baldacci book. Interesting enough my parents were teaching in Southern Virginia during the time of desegregation and were right in the middle of all of the protests and the hate on both sides of the fence. It seems strange to look back at it now, but honestly, it wasn’t that long ago. Jack Lee, a white lawyer, who was raised by parents who saw both side of the black and white lines raised a fine young man who saw the color of peoples skin, but didn’t understand why there was so much hate. He was asked to defend a black man who was accused of killing a wealthy white couple. There was so much on the line for both the defendant and the attorney and his family. This is just so beautifully written. When Baldacci describes a man as lean as a cattail, I knew that I would love every single page. If I could give this 10 stars I would!

Really great. I’ve never read any of his books but I was intrigued by the blurb and it definitely delivered. It’s a story that’s been told a lot but it’s of course very very important and valuable each time imo. It’s always astonishing to me to think about how these perilous times for black people in the South was truly not so long ago and it definitely feels like a reality check any time I’m transported back there in a novel like this. It definitely brought me through a full range of emotions, and I didn’t find it too predictable or outlandish. Recommend !

What a deliciously claustrophobic whodunnit! This mystery unfolds in an eerie apartment with terrifying occupants who are skilled liars, burying their ugly secrets. Even the city of lovers, Paris, feels transformed, harking back to its revolutionary years with civilians rising against the government and clashing with police officers. Paris itself becomes a vivid, complex, and tumultuous narrator in the story. This was one of my fastest reads! I loved the riveting mystery of the missing stepbrother, Ben, who vanished into thin air, with the last place he was seen being his apartment. I loved Jess as the main character—survivor of the foster care system, running from her haunted past. She’s broken but resilient, mostly reckless, a woman who has nothing to lose! I also loved the strange connection between the irritating occupants who know exactly where Ben is but have no intention of sharing their knowledge with his stepsister. I liked the creepy atmosphere, the slowly building tension, the short and effective chapters, and the eccentric voices of the multiple POVs. I also enjoyed the final twist, even though some parts of the conclusion made me roll my eyes. It was a somewhat fair ending, one that the characters truly deserved. So, I’m rounding up 4.5 stars to 5 for this riveting, truly exciting, twisty, unputdownable read! Follow me on medium.com to read my articles about books, movies, streaming series, astrology: medium blog instagram facebook twitter

Lucy Foley is becoming the new Ruth Ware, isn’t she? I really enjoyed The Hunting Party, but I struggled with the even more popular release The Guest List. However, once I saw the cover of Foley’s 2022 release, THE PARIS APARTMENT, I just knew I needed to read it. I’ll be vague with the story, because the best part of it is how it unfolds. The story focuses on a UK woman named Jess coming to visit her half brother Ben after being invited to come visit him at his new apartment in Paris. While arriving, Jess finds his brother missing, with a group of residents with questionable behavior. Why is her brother missing and how does it relate to the tenants in the building? ⁣ THE PARIS APARTMENT follows the similar formula that Lucy Foley has perfected, with multiple POVs, in a setting that also plays as its own character. This story is rich with French culture and atmosphere, and I feel like I’m transported to Paris. We have a deck of characters that really all have their own personalities. Talk about immersive—I was transported to that time that I visited Paris! If you liked the show Only Murders in the Building, with a hint of Emily in Paris, but with a Clue-esque twist, I definitely think this book is for you. This book’s climax and ending are seriously going to be resonating with me for awhile, it was just that epic. THE PARIS APARTMENT is proof that Lucy Foley isn’t just here to stay, but also to slay.

The Paris Apartment, address no. 12 rue des Amants – as beautiful and luxurious as it is eerie and sinister. When Jess arrives at the apartment building, from London, to stay with her brother Ben, he is nowhere to be found. And, when he fails to materialise, and she starts questioning the neighbours, instead of displaying concern, they are not only unhelpful, dismissive, and unfriendly, but acting suspiciously as well. What are they hiding? And where is Ben? Jess will go to any lengths to find out. 12 rue des Amants was made up of five residential apartments, a street level gated entrance and courtyard, an attic maid’s quarters and rooftop garden terrace, and a basement/cellar known as ‘the cave’ (French pronunciation ‘cave’ rhymes with ‘ave’). The occupants were as follows: The Penthouse – Sophisticated and snobby Sophie, and her husband Jacques. Fourth Floor – Sheltered, nervous Mimi, and her party girl flatmate Camille. Third Floor – Journalist Ben Daniel’s, Jess’ brother, now missing. Second Floor – Nick, Ben’s friend from his University days. First Floor – Hostile, intimidating Antoine, whose wife Dominique has just left him. Ground Floor – The Concierge lives in a garden shed type structure in the courtyard (known as the Loge), and relishes spying on everyone. Every element of The Paris Apartment was woven together seamlessly, complete with an ominous atmosphere, and unique setting. I require more thrillers to be set in Paris, but only if they’re as amazing as this one of course. Even though Jess could obviously come and go as she pleased (and there were parts set around Paris) the book had a locked room feel. Jess was bound to the apartment complex by her determination and love for her brother, her only family. It’s also clear from the first chapter in her POV that she’s left London in a hurry due to an ‘incident’, and that she is ‘on the run’, ‘out of options’, unemployed, low on cash, with nowhere else to go – therefore she’s effectively trapped and bound to The Paris Apartment. All the narrators were dysfunctional, reclusive, haunted by their past, and as goes with the territory – secretive and unreliable. Even though Ben barely made an appearance he was clearly the driving focus of the novel – every character was utterly consumed and obsessed by him. Those who are familiar with my reviews know I’m a sucker for a creepy gothic setting, and The Paris Apartment delivered on all counts, with its hidden second spiral staircase, dumb waiter, cranky elevator, dark cavernous basement, ivy-covered attic structure accessed via rickety ladder, and the roof garden with its flimsy iron railing. Even the timed lights activated by the press of a button, that plunged character’s into darkness at various points, freaked me out! The audio enhanced the written material, and I commend all the narrators – Mimi’s voice in particular was perfection. A fun and foreboding listen. If you can get your hands on the audiobook then I highly recommend it. Not that I wouldn’t award the print versions 5-stars, but the audio was something special. I’d like to thank Netgalley, Harper Collins UK Audio, and Lucy Foley for the audio-ARC. UK, AUS, NZ Publication Date: 3rd March, 2022. US Publication Date: 22nd February, 2022.

Lucy Foley has done it again, and that is to say, written another amazing thriller that I will 100% be purchasing in the next fiscal year. 😌 Jess is on the outs, having run into a little trouble with her boss. She's strapped for cash- but needs somewhere to lie low for a little bit, so she calls up her half-brother Ben, asking if she can stay with him for a while. He says it's not a great time and is reluctant to have her come, but ultimately agrees that she can stay until she gets back on her feet. When Jess shows up at the apartment though, her brother is nowhere to be found, and the other tenants in the apartment are anything but friendly, seemingly desperate to get rid of her. As Jess begins to look further into her brother's disappearance, she begins to unravel a tightly woven tapestry of secrets surrounding the rest of the apartment's occupants and the dark origins of their riches. My immediate thoughts after finishing this: "So when's her next book coming out?" [Inaudible] "What do you mean she only released this one so there probably won't be another one for-" [Inaudible] "A year??? At least?? but- that's so long- I want more now-" I've loved every thriller Lucy Foley's ever written, from The Hunting Party to The Guest List, and The Paris Apartment was no different. I struggle a lot of times to find thrillers that aren't disturbing to the point of making it so I can't eat or sleep for days on end, ie, I don't really like super scary or gruesome thrillers, so her books are the perfect Goldie-Locks mysteries for me. She creates the perfect balance of being enticing, keeping me turning the page with the suspense, but also diffuses a lot of the tension with quick-witted humor, which I appreciate and enjoy. The Paris Apartment is a sophisticated and twisty novella that plops you down in the posh streets of Paris, taking you behind the locked doors of high society. Everyone's got a secret, and everyone is a suspect. The socialite. The concierge. The nice guy. The drunkard. The headcase. You really do feel like it could be any one of them until the very end, everyone has a motive of some sort. I adored the characters (at least, the good ones). I loved Jess, of course, I liked her rag-tag-under-dog-foster-kid vibe, and Camille had a special place in my heart as well. And I liked- what's his name? The reporter guy? I liked him too. Mimi also receives an honorable mention for being the creepiest m7therf94ker in this whole book, I don't care what you say, she will haunt my dreams for the next week, at least. I mean- (view spoiler) I know that Lucy Foley's thrillers aren't necessarily romance novels, but I always like the little bit of romance usually sprinkled in at some point, it adds a nice little bit of zest to the story, and in my opinion, is always done very well. I tried to keep track of the twists, but honestly, I lost count at some point because there were so many- I wanna say there were at least- four? Five? And I didn't see any of them coming except for maybe one like- right before it was revealed. Anyways, In terms of the ending- (view spoiler) I love you, Lucy Foley, please hurry up and write more murder mysteries ASAP, I truly simp for your books harder than any normal person should. (Not to the point where I would paint pictures of them, then slash them all up and leave them on your doorstep for your wife to find, but somewhere in between there and how much the average person should like a book). Happy Reading 😊🔪🩸🗼🏢

Well, Lucy Foley has once again given is a compulsive and entertaining novel with The Paris Apartment. Just like The Guest List, it was impossible to put down and I read it over a hour period. With short chapters, this is an easy book to get lost in and devour. With a cast of characters that you will love to hate, it is difficult to know who to trust, as we go on the hunt for Ben with Jess. Jess needs to get away from England and quickly so we calls up her half brother Ben in Paris and tell him she is coming. Only when she gets there, Ben is nowhere to be found and things don't seem right. She has a horrible feeling that something bad has happened to him and she is determined to find him. The apartment block he lives in at No Rue Des Amants is full of secrets and the residents will do anything to keep them hidden. Jess finds herself in danger herself, the more she digs, the bigger the shocks.. You will not believe where this mystery will take you and you will be reading until late in the night. One of my most anticipated reads for 2022 and it did not disappoint. Thanks to Harper Collins Australia and Netgalley for my advanced copy of this book to read. Get this one on your wishlist now, you won't be sorry

This is my third Foley book. I didn't care much The Hunting Party and the Guest List was too predictable. But I thoroughly The Paris Apartment from beginning to end. Not what I'd consider a thriller, but it was a great locked-room mystery. The Paris Apartment kept me engaged, and I didn't figure out the end on my own. So, that's a five star for me :)

Oh I am SO ready

Richard Osman never disappoints I was laughing all the way through, the lovable quirky characters bring joy to my heart. The narration by Fiona Shaw brought the characters to life. This time around Joyce’s daughter Joanna is getting married to Paul a professor at the university they are looking forward to the big day as is Joyce, but Paul’s best man Nick tells Paul he was nearly killed, well this is not good but Joyce is determined to enjoy the day no matter what. Elizabeth is still grieving for her husband Steven who died but soon as she hears about Nick’s situation she gets back in the groove starting to solve who it was who tried to kill Nick, his business partner Holly is in trouble to. I absolutely adore this series the POV is told mostly by Joyce the case they are working on is quite difficult , lots more is going on as well a wonderful enjoyable audio but please read this series in order as there are things in earlier books that are mentioned. All the quirky stars.⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

When I retire I want to live at Coppers Chase and join the Thursday Murder Club. I am so happy that we are back with this group of crazy retirees again after a break last year.always such a joy to catch up with them all. Poor Elizabeth is grieving the death of her husband Stephen and life has been pretty quiet up until now. Joyce has wedding fever with her daughter Joanna getting married at long last. Ibrahim is still counseling Connie, who has now taken a young girl under her wing. And Ron has family dramas that are keeping him up at night. The fun begins when a wedding guest seeks Elizabeth out at the wedding and asks for help feeling that his life is in danger. She starts to feel a it of that old spark again and of course gathers the others for help. There is the usual antics, danger and of course tea and cake. These books are just so much fun to read and lose yourself in. I did have to fight the husband who tried to claim this one as soon as it landed on the doorstep. It made me smile and laugh, and it made me sad in places as well. Always a guaranteed winner in my eyes. Bring on book 6 already. Thanks so much to Penguin Books Australia for my early copy of this book to read and review. There were squeals of excitement when I opened it. Publishes on September 26th, series fans are going to love it ❤️

‘Trouble is much like love: when the time is ready, it will find you.’ I can’t tell you how happy I am to be back with the Thursday murder club gang. They warm my heart and soul 😌 4 unlikely friends. A wedding. A cryptic code. And a ruthless villain… Welcome back to the TMC! 🐒 Who's got time to think about murder when there's a wedding to plan? The gang have had a low-key year. Joyce has been busy planning her daughter’s wedding. Elizabeth has been deep in grief over her husband. Ron’s family is falling apart, and Ibrahim is providing therapy to his favourite criminal. As the wedding comes to a close, Elizabeth meets a wedding guest who's in trouble - kidnap or death are coming for them…A villain wants access to an uncrackable code and will stop at nothing. ENTER: The TMC gang, once more 🙊🙉🙈 Can they solve the puzzle in time? This really was a very clever and compelling mystery. It was complex without being difficult to follow. I often find myself getting a bit lost in mysteries about codes and money, but I should know by now to trust Osman’s masterful writing skills. Furthermore, his writing abilities shine through not just in the storyline but even more so through his memorable characters. I have grown to love the TMC gang over the previous 4 books and I was thrilled to see that their characters held strong once again. In fact, I think I loved them even more so now 🥰 We also met some new characters in this book including my new favourite character: Kendrick. He is Ron’s neurodivergent grandson and he is a blast! He brings a new and refreshing perspective, as well as a lot of charm. Overall, I can safely say that this was another solid instalment from Osman; maybe even my favourite book in the series yet! It was packed full of everything I love about the TMC, including charming characters, clever mysteries, and a touch of worldly insight. Oh yes, and you can’t forget about that good old fashioned British humour 😅 ‘Here’s to chaos and love, and to life and books. Until next time!’ 🙌🏽 5🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟

Another wonderful book about my favorite oldie but goodies! This is a great mystery and also a catch up with the characters. If you’re a fan of the series you will enjoy this one too. ❤️

This is arguably one of the weakest plots but idk and will read anything with these characters

I’ve been waiting to join up with the Thursday murder club for ages. I haven’t been disappointed a great new murder and a puzzle to solve. The gang has got older and have life has given them the problems to overcome. Joyce is still Joyce so funny and so ditsy says exactly what is in her mind at the time even if it has nothing to do with the conversation at hand! Reminds me of my late grandmother. Elizabeth has things to cope with, she’s gone into herself.. a meeting at Joyce’s daughters wedding starts to get her excited again to start Thursday murder club up with a new case just the thing they need. Ron has family trouble her must sort out.. Ibraham is feeling lonely,but he has his TMC friends. Also helping his favourite criminal onto the straight and narrow he hopes.. Can’t wait to hear from the TMC soon and the new gang from we solve murders. This is so good and funny at least for me. Hope others enjoy this book the way I did. Happy reading

Thank you Viking Books for sending me a free copy! The fifth book in the Thursday Murder Club series was one of my most anticipated reads this year. I held off on reading it though. That sounds weird but hear me out. I sometimes save books written by my favorite authors for a time when I can sit down and truly savor every moment of the reading experience. So I waited until life was a little less hectic and I had a weekend free to relax and read. Great decision on my part because I thoroughly enjoyed THE IMPOSSIBLE FORTUNE. It was everything I wanted it to be and more. So wonderful to see the gang back together and attempting to solve yet another mystery. Friendship and the love that comes with it was an ongoing theme. Such a heartwarming read but one full of humorous moments as well. Highly recommend checking out this series but keep in mind most of us believe the first one is a decent read but also the weakest of the 5 novels. It’s truly a series that gets better and better with each book. The second book is where everything fell into place for me and I became a big fan.

*** 10/29/25 *** Fantastic 5th book in the Thursday Murder Club series! This time Richard Osman inserts more storylines from the next generation - Joyce's daughter & new husband, and Ron's son & daughter, son-in-law, and grandson. But Osman's characteristic insightful personal reflections by the Murder Club members hit as strongly as ever, delightfully melding mystery and warmth. My favorite parts were the "Easter Egg" references to "Who's your favorite James Bond character?" discussed with Ron (played by Pierce Brosnan in the recently released Thursday Murder Club movie, of course) - made me smile! I'm so glad we have writers that realistically portray people in their "third act" of life, who are smart, witty, engaged, and entertaining. Keep em coming! Full 5-stars and I'll basically read anything Osman writes.

Highly, highly recommended. In The Impossible Fortune, Richard Osman is back with his inimitable characters from Coopers Chase as they resolve the mystery around a murder and a bitcoin fortune. Delightful dialogue, asides, and character relationships transport readers fully into the plot and action of the book. Osman scores another hit with this great addition to the Thursday Murder Club Mystery series.

Oh my goddddd this might have dethroned book #2 as my favorite in the series (though it could be recency bias… might need to just reread the whole series to test it out). Without a shadow of a doubt, this is a 5 star read. So cute, and charming, and as wholesome as ever. One of my favorite things about this series is how, with every book, we grow more familiar with the characters. Truly so impressed with how Richard Osman is able to give each character such a defining personality AND keep them consistent throughout all (now) 5 books. LOOOVED getting to know more about Ron. Up until now he was probably my least favorite in the group and after reading this book I could cry just thinking about him. And I’m OBSESSSSSED with Kendrick omg - that boy stole the show. And loved getting to know Joanna more!!!! It is literally my dream to have some version of their lives in 40 years time lolol So anyways when is the next one coming out? Thank you SO much to Viking Penguin and Pamela Dorman Books for the ARC in exchange for my honest review!

“Only God can kill Elizabeth” “And even he’d think twice” THE GANG IS BACK AND IM SO HAPPY

I received THE IMPOSSIBLE FORTUNE eleven weeks after I placed the hold on Libby. It was worth the wait. It is a 4.5 star book, and after consideration, I decided to raise it rather than lower it. I believe that readers who have been diligently following the adventures of the Thursday Murder Club series will enjoy this instalment too. But I doubt that it would work as well for those who haven't read at least some of the earlier publications. There are now a lot of characters to follow in addition to the four core members of the group (Elizabeth, Joyce, Ron, and Ibrahim), and the author, Richard Osman, does not introduce them to us, but simply throws them into an engaging puzzle. I must admit that I had forgotten the role played by Connie in the previous episode, and had to pick it up as I followed the story. Luckily, I remembered the other main recurring characters—Bogdan, Donna, Chris, Pauline, and Kendrick—from their previous appearances. The narrative walks a fine line between humour and pathos, and the puzzle is interesting enough to keep us engaged. For once, Elizabeth did not hold the centre stage—Ron and Joyce had stronger roles—and I think this improved the team dynamics. I hope they encounter many more challenging puzzles in the future before they succumb to the inevitable finality of aging. Thanks to the Greater Victoria Public Library for providing the ebook I read. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ My reviews for other books in this series: The Thursday Murder Club (Thursday Murder Club #1) The Man Who Died Twice (Thursday Murder Club #2) The Bullet That Missed (Thursday Murder Club #3) The Last Devil To Die (Thursday Murder Club #4) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All the stars. Loved it, so fun, and the characters and shenanigans were all a delight! Can’t wait to dive into the backlist of this series - on my list for 2026!

I love this series!

Fortune favors the old. "Sometimes the most dangerous weapon in a room is a pensioner with a plan." After a rare lull in the action, the Thursday Murder Club are - dare we say - almost behaving themselves. Joyce is fussing over her daughter's wedding plans, Elizabeth is still quietly grieving, Ron is facing family troubles, and Ibrahim is still offering therapy to his favorite criminal. But peace never lasts long in Coopers Chase. When Elizabeth crosses paths with a wedding guest in trouble, the gang is once again pulled into a case involving an uncrackable code, a missing fortune, and a villain who will stop at nothing to get it. Cue another whirlwind of kidnappings, corpses, and chaotic pensioner heroics - all wrapped up in Richard Osmans trademark blend of humor, heart, and humanity. "The Impossible Fortune", the fifth installment in the series, proves once again why the Thursday Murder Club remains unbeatable: there is crime, sleuthing, laughs, and lots of heart. Osman balances mystery and emotion beautifully, giving each of our beloved retirees a moment to shine (and yes, Joyce's daughter Joanna finally gets her own storyline!). The dialogue sparkles, the clues keep coming, and spending time with this crew always feels like coming home. The Netflix adaptation could never. Witty, warm, and worth the two-year wait. Long live the Thursday Murder Club.

I don't understand how someone can write five perfect books, but Richard Osman has done it. And the series has been confirmed to continue, thank goodness. I don't know what I'll do the day this series ends. Bawl my eyes out for starters, but after that? Who can say for sure. Best series ever. Best characters ever. Clever, kind, charming, witty, twisty, well-paced, emotional, brilliant, brilliant, brilliant ten thousand times over. Copy and paste this review for all future Thursday Murder Club books. I can never review this series properly. I am always so full of words, until I love something so much it takes over my heart and breaks my brain. Then all I can do is blabber on with gushing nonsensical praise. The highest honor I can give a book. Until next time, gang ❤️

Retired nurse Joyce Meadowcroft’s prickly daughter Joanna, a millionaire hedge-fund manager, is marrying a kind university professor after years of dating CEOs and football club owners. Attending the wedding are the other three pensioners from Coopers Chase retirement community in the best-selling series that began with The Thursday Murder Club and the groom’s best man, Nick Silver. The latter confides to Elizabeth Best, retired spy and Joyce’s good friend, that someone is trying to kill him. And then Nick Silver disappears. There’s never a dull moment in Richard Osman’s fifth entry in the series, including subplots involving Ron Ritchie’s villainous son-in-law and a onetime cocaine kingpin who is Ibrahim Arif’s patient. I can’t say more without ruining this five-star masterwork, packed with humor, cleverness and suspense. Also needless to say, The Impossible Fortune is best enjoyed read by the inimitable Fiona Shaw.

I genuinely didn’t think I could love these characters any more than I already did… and yet here we are. THE IMPOSSIBLE FORTUNE just reinforced how much I adore the The Thursday Murder Club — and also reminded me that this series is eventually going to end, which I am choosing not to think about for my own emotional well-being. At this point, these characters feel like old friends. Over the last couple of books, Richard Osman has started weaving in these quieter, more intimate moments - little insights into their lives, their grief, their relationships - that just hit so hard. There were a couple moments in this one that absolutely got me, and yes… I cried. Again. Rude. Of course, we still have a murder to solve, and I had a great time with this mystery. I actually thought I had it figured out pretty early on… and, as usual, I was completely wrong. I love that this author can still fool me every single time and then somehow make the final reveal feel so obvious in hindsight. But what continues to stand out to me most about this series is how it portrays aging. There’s something really special about the way these books show both sides of it - the joy of staying engaged, connected, and involved in life, alongside the very real loneliness and loss that can come with it. It feels honest, but also hopeful in a way that I don’t see very often. And I have to say… this series is low-key making me look forward to getting older, which is not something I ever expected a murder mystery to accomplish. If you love character-driven mysteries with humor, heart, and just enough emotional damage to sneak up on you, this series continues to deliver in the best possible way.

This is a terrific book of course, like the whole series, and I can’t think of any more superlatives. Joyce is at her best (or worst if you’re her daughter), and this time we get a good deal of Johanna. The mother and daughter arguments are awesome, and the way the son-in-law tackles them is admirable. Ron gets a lot of space in this book, which is fine by me; he’s pretty good for a West Ham fan. I always give Richard Osman’s books a solid five, and I see no reason to change.

‘a story about one lonely man with too many cat ornaments, and another lonely man in a cold house..’ I think the Thursday Murder Club series just gets better and better..I could not work out mystery (and I tried) but I did love hanging out with my friends again. More backstories, more character development..but gosh it just feels like deepening friendship! So charming, I laughed, I cried and loved every page…Love love love!!

Another great addition to this series. I considered rating this a 4 star only because it isn’t as good as some of the others in the series, but compared to most other mystery books it’s a 5. Without giving away plot of previous books, readers will enjoy this elderly group of retirees as they investigate unsolved murders and crimes. Be sure to read them in order as events can be spoiled if you read out of order. The addition of Kendrick, who is Ron’s grandson, is my favorite part of this book and I hope he continues to be a featured side character similar to Bogdan. I think he’s been included in previous books but his character is much more fleshed out in this one.

--Oh my goodness! Quick confession: I didn’t expect to love the third book so much, but it exceeded all my expectations! It's far better than the second book; I couldn’t put it down. I even canceled my appointment with my accountant, even though I have taxes to do. Who cares about taxes when there's such an amazing book to read? Okay, it's wrong to say something like that as a law-abiding, mature citizen, but come on, this book is incredibly good. I found myself wanting to stop time just to peacefully read my advance copy! What can I say to rest my case! The adventures of Millie the maid are the definition of addiction! I know I can find hundreds of people like me (maybe thousands) who, once they start one of her books, they cannot stop! It’s more addictive than Pringles! It’s riveting page-turners! It’s my favorite guilty pleasure! Her new adventure takes us 11 years later where we left things with Millie and Enzo. Now they’re older, married, having two kids; one A grader, sensitive, mature, smart daughter Ava, and a friendly, energetic, sporty 9-year-old Nico, named after Enzo’s family members. Their luck turned out, and their offer for the house has gotten approval which means they are about to be suburbanites, living in ( correction living "ON") Long Island. Millie is jumping in excitement to build a new life in a big house she still has questions about how they bought under its value even though they have to work harder to pay the mortgage. She is also excited to make new friends with her neighbors but unfortunately one of her neighbors cannot keep her hands off her husband, shamelessly flirting with him as the other woman who is health-obsessed and also a noisy busybody who likes to watch each step she takes from her house and make her uncomfortable. In addition to that, Enzo makes a jest to hire their neighbor’s maid Martha: the same woman she keeps giving her scrutinizing looks as if she knows her criminal dark past. Could Millie make the worst mistake by moving to this neighborhood where her neighbors act like she’s mud under their boot to scratch, her children keep acting like strangers and her husband might be too friendly with Suzette Lowell: their flirty neighbor next door? At the top of that somebody gets murdered as expected. Because where Millie goes, there should be murder, shouldn’t be? How will she save herself and her family without getting involved? What her family members keep hidden from her? Well: didn’t I say how much I loved this book that I should scream at the rooftops kind of! I'm about to give this book ten stars which highly deserved! Don’t forget to add this book to your reading list. Who am I kidding? Just order your copy and dive in blindfolded! Satisfaction guaranteed! Oh boy, I hope Freida McFadden keeps writing more Millie the Maid sequels to feed my cravings! I never get enough of this series! Many thanks to NetGalley and Poisoned Pen Press for sharing the digital reviewer copy of the most anticipated thriller of the year in exchange for my honest opinions which I truly appreciate! medium blog instagram facebook twitter

I was gifted an early copy to review. This is my honest opinion. I am a huge Freidah Readah. She is the queen of easy, fast paced reads with one or 2 crazy twists in. The Housemaid is one of my favourite thriller books to date, and I recommend it to everyone. The Housemaid's Secret, Book 2, is also equally as good. So when I saw there would be a Book 3, I was giddy with anticipation. I loved the opening prologue- I made friends jealous showing them the first line! It was fantastic to see where Millie had ended up years after Book 2. This is everything I hoped for. The pacing was a little more of a slow burn at the start- but it was still compulsive, and I knew there would be some OMG moments to come... Wow. I gasped and dropped my kindle at some of the twists. The second half is a wild, crazy ride and I read it in one sitting. It was gripping, shocking, and simply stunning with the brilliance and complexity of the ending. My favourite Freida of recent books. I loved it.

4.5⭐️ As Millie and Enzo move into the house of their dreams, two kids in tow, they are met by some very nosy neighbors, all of whom take more of an interest in their family then they would like. Oh, say it isn’t so - I am so sad that this series has come to an end. However, Freida McFadden did an excellent job bringing it full circle and leaving us both wanting more and feeling satisfied with this binge-worthy conclusion to the Housemaid Series. I fell in love with Millie and Enzo in The Housemaid, and my fondness for these two quirky, beautifully nuanced characters only grew throughout the remaining books. What I love most about The Housemaid is the how dynamic each of these pivotal characters are. Millie is a complex, morally grey heroine, and Enzo the perfect counterpart. It was fascinating to learn more about their children and how they are similar or dissimilar to each of their parents. The overall plot of this one was engaging with great pacing and a whodunnit conclusion I did not see coming, or in other words it was the perfect Freida twist. This is the first book in the series I have read with my ears and I never would have imagined Millie to have had a strong New York accent, ironic since she is from the area, as am I. Just two narrators, Lauryn Allman and Ina Marie Smith, managed to narrate so many characters in such a unique way, for a moment I thought it was a full cast of narrators. As much as I prefer eyeball reading this series, I may need to go back and reread via audio just to listen to more of Allman’s pitch perfect portrayal of Millie. Read if you like: • domestic suspense • cozy thrillers • morally grey characters • fun series • twisty books Thank you Bookouture for the gifted copy.

** spoiler alert ** 5 ⭐️ I swear each book in this series is better than the next. You would think by now Millie would know better about trusting others, but clearly not lol. This book definitely had me questioning Enzo nearly the entire time. I was ready to strangle him and Suzette about halfway through. But, every time I thought I figured out what was happening, there was another twist and I loved it.

21st Birthday yet another amazing read by Patterson & Paetro! Love this series - the characters reel you in and hook you on the line. 5 stars! Can’t wait to see what 22 Seconds has in store for the Women’s Murder Club!❤️

First off I want to say a huge thank you to the publisher Hachette Audio , and to the authors James Patterson and Maxine Paetro for the invite to read and review their new book, as well as sending me the link to get it though Play Books. As well as for them helping me to find a new series to start , after listening to this one and since I just checked and saw that they was also narrated by January LaVoy , I can wait to listen to more of them. In fact this will be the seconds series of his that I'm reading the first is his Alex Cross and I never thought I would find another series of his I would actually like,like I did that one but now I have. In fact this was my first time listing to January LaVoy and the way she read the story made me love it and enjoy it even more then I could every hopeful . She made the story come to life , there was times I forgot I was actually listening to an audio book , I thought doing those times I was watching a new tv show . As for the story itself wow what a ride, it kept me going back and forth on who was the killer .

This was a great book! Hard to put down, a little dark for this time of my life, but I still enjoyed the twists and turns! If you enjoy a good "who-done-it", you'll enjoy this one.

The Women’s Murder Club mysteries constitute the longest running of James Patterson’s collaborative series. He and veteran co-author Maxine Paetro have crafted a template that is immediately familiar, but new elements are introduced to keep each installment fresh and unpredictable. Readers coming on board for the first time are never at sea with what has occurred before, while those who have been there from the beginning always find their loyalty rewarded. That brings us to the newly published 21st BIRTHDAY, a title with multiple meanings. Its prologue begins at the end and then jumps back five months in time to the office of San Francisco Chronicle reporter Cindy Thomas. Cindy, a longtime member of the unofficial but very real Women’s Murder Club, has her office invaded by Kathleen Wyatt, who is not unknown to Cindy. If Kathleen has a penchant for speaking in italics, it is with good reason. Kathleen's 20-year-old daughter, Tara, is missing --- just shy of her 21st birthday --- as is her infant girl, Lorrie. Kathleen is convinced that Tara’s husband, Lucas, is responsible for their disappearances with accusations that border on hysterics. But that does not mean she is wrong. Cindy hands Kathleen off to Detective Lindsay Boxer just as there is a change in the hierarchy of Lindsay’s division, causing a domino effect in her life going forward. At first Lindsay cannot handle the case because she deals with homicides, and there isn’t a body. That changes, and she starts investigating what appears to be a serial killer at work, even as Tara and her baby are still missing. The murders have a potential tie to Lucas, though medical examiner Claire Washburn helps to avoid a rush to judgment. Lucas is certainly a prime suspect, though. A teacher at a local private high school, he is in his 40s and likes his dates and his wives to be legal, if barely so. He even had his next spouse all picked out even before Tara and Lorrie disappeared. When an additional pair of tragic discoveries take place, he is charged with murder. Assistant District Attorney Yuki Castellano is tasked with the case. Lucas has a questionable alibi, but also offers a separate SODDI defense --- “some other dude did it” --- which rocks both the investigation and the trial. Lindsay is duty-bound to investigate Lucas’ story, which seems false; if true, it could have implications far beyond San Francisco. The truth eventually comes out and will linger with the reader long after the final sentence is presented. In many ways, 21st BIRTHDAY is the best volume in this fine series thus far. It features the unique plotting and skillfully written presentation that Patterson and Paetro have brought to it since their collaboration began. As with the books that have gone before, it is a wild ride that leaves the reader hungry for the next one. Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub

I can't believe we are 21 in! This has been my 'go to' series since day one, I will always buy/read them and I rarely read what its about it prior to because I know I'm going to like it. This was another great one, it focused more on Cindy and Yuki with a trial, the story was really good, very in depth and the secondary characters were well done. Interesting ending, I'm wondering if parts will go into the next one so I'm looking forward to it!

Wow! I really didn't want this one to end the way it did. I wanted more. Hopefully, James P. Writes a 22nd and a continuance of this one. Very suspenseful and definitely kept my interest. I hated to put it down.

Kept you guessing who really did it !could not put it down As usual a great book from James Patterson read all 1 to 21 love them

Amazing Read Actual Rating: 4.5 This was an incredible read. This is the twenty-first book of the Women’s Murder Club series. Every book is getting better and better in my opinion. I really love Lindsay Boxer. She has become one of my favourite heroines. In this book, there is a young mother, Tara Burke who goes missing along with her baby girl. Her husband is on the hook for his crimes after gruesome evidence comes to the cops. Meanwhile, Lindsay is trying to protect a woman from a serial killer long enough to see her 21st birthday. No woman is safe while the serial killer is out on the loose. I love the moments when the gang gets together after the case and just get to hang out. I love how their friendship works and how they work together to solve crimes. I am happy I found this series. I am close to the most recent release. I love how they stories have a lot of elements and different characters involved in the plot. There was crime, mystery, and some badass moments. I loved the fast pace of the story, and also the twists that unfold in the series are awesome. The ending was fantastic, and I didn't expect it at all. This series reminds me of Criminal Minds, but an all-female version of it. The series about four best friends, who are more like sisters than friends is the best thing ever. We get to see how they are able to overcome anything because of their friendship. The only thing I am sad about is that Yuki never got to meet Jill. I think if all 5 women were in the series, it would have been even better. I can't wait to read book 22, and I am excited to see what the series has in store for me. 22 Seconds, here I come. Overall, an amazing read.

Thank you to Netgalley and Random House UK Cornerstone for the arc of the next installement in the Women's Murder Club Series by James Patterson! 5 STARS- He never fails to impress with his books! They are so Thrilling compelling and page turning reads! I just love James Patterson's Books- HIGHLY HIGHLY Recommend!

The Murder Club ladies are together again in this very suspenseful story. A distraught mother compels Cindy to help her find her missing daughter and granddaughter. They do turn up but both have been murdered. The father Lucas is arrested and Yuki is the prosecutor. The reader experiences the trial. Lucas claims his father did it but the father is difficult to nail down. This novel is well done!

This is the 21st book in the Women’s murder club and the 91st James Patterson book I have read!! I really enjoyed this one a lot definitely one of the better ones so far!! 💜

I look forward to the end of May/beginning of June every year to spend two days with my favorite fictional characters, The Women’s Murder Club. Finally, Patterson spent more time on the crime story than recapping the characters. I really enjoyed this one! Hurry up, 2022!

I always enjoy this series, I love the characters and how they all work together. This story was good and kept me guessing right up till the end.

When you manage your expectations by being realistic and enjoy tf outta this masterpiece 😌🤭 SPOILER FREE REVIEW I honestly feel so emotional finishing this book, saying goodbye to Bryce and Hunt's story. I was thoroughly entertained, invested and satisfied with the way this book was written. I would say that when you go into this book, please keep in mind you're reading Bryce's story, simply put you are going in for Captain Marvel and not Avengers Endgame 🤷‍♀️ I also see people disappointed with the way Bryce was in this book. Even though she had few moments where I felt frustrated with her, I fully understood her. In a strange environment, she is not going to or supposed to act calm. She will be paranoid. Meeting new people whom SHE doesn't know and acting suspicious, trying to escape makes ABSOLUTE sense. Even in her irrational actions, there were rational intentions 👀 Coming back to the book which is divided into Part 1, Part 2 and Part 3 like any other Crescent City book. Part 1 explored more folklore, history, new places and people (for Bryce) and setting up a much more powerful world building. I found myself loving it, there were some big reveals and connections. I was also shocked to see one of the creatures back in the world and it brought intense memories. It also ends on a brutal note. Iykyk. Part 2 was more hands on action, it built on to the reveals made in part 1 brilliantly. I see MANY people saying that this part bored them and dragged on. On the contrary, I found it to be much more intense and mind blowing. Lidia and Ruhn carried it beautifully. Part 2 ends on a very nerve wrecking note, and you'll immediately want to binge the rest of the book. Part 3 was simply put- Binge worthy. Big reveals happen here, characters in this world get what they deserve and I ate it up. Ithan and Bryce were my favorite here, and surprisingly Jesiba too. It ends on a satisfying note and I just can't wait to see how it's going to add up to the future books. Onto the characters- ❤️‍🔥Bryce- Although a bit erratic her actions are completely justified imo. She is the same Bryce we have grown to love- smartass, funny, badass, always standing up for the right and calculating. The sacrifices she's willing to make was emotional to see. But like any other, she does have flaws and is imperfect. ⚡Hunt- My man. The way he cared for Bryce was everything. Even while getting tortured to the point where he is close to death, all he cared about was Bryce and his friends. He would do anything to protect them, even if it means he's gonna end up hurt. His big reveal was one that I was never expecting and I was shook. I loved seeing him unleash and put Celestina in her place. 🔥Lidia- I LOVE her. She did so much for literally everyone good in this book, such huge sacrifices. She did not put herself first once and I loved her. I swear I just want to give her the biggest hug. 🖤Ruhn- Loved seeing the way he felt for Lidia. Man's had me gasping, crying, emotional for more. His bond with Hunt and Baxian was intense and so loyal. The way he was protecting Bryce was everything. Tho that one scene made me dizzy (you know which one). 🐺Ithan and 🧜‍♂️Tharion- Although different paths, I found them to be quite similar with the way they deal with their struggles. Before anyone gets frustrated with these two- Have you ever made a mistake and in order to correct it desperately, you make more bad decisions and more mistakes?? That sounds pretty relatable to me. Not all of us are perfect. Living in self loathing, guilt, and anxiety isn't easy. Tharion and Ithan thinking that they don't deserve anything good happening to them after making so many mistakes is real and it's a mental health representation at its best. So many people acting like Tharion and Ithan were annoying breaks my heart cause I found them to be so endearing and loving, so loyal, so worthy despite what the two thought. I just wish to hold them and talk to them about it all. Baxian- All I'll say is he has strong teeth 😭 Jesiba and Hypaxia- I appreciated so much what these two did, especially Jesiba. Without giving too much away, am sure you'll like them more. The romances- Bryce and Hunt- Honestly, after Feyre and Rhys these two are my favorite SJM couple and they are immensely underrated. Even in their arguments, they know when to support each other. They're the couple who will support each other in public even if they are wrong and correct the other in private. Ruhn and Lidia- So angsty. It's like they broke my heart multiple times and mended it to complete perfection. Literally everything about them is PERFECT. I loved how they communicated and bared themselves to each other. Also, did SJM throw in the marriage of convenience trope? 👀 Y'all gotta find out for which couple, no spoilers here. 🤭🤭 I believe people have forgotten that this is Bryce's story. In order to enjoy this book, you gotta keep that in mind. I can already see that SJM has foreshadowed a lot of multiversal possible scenarios. Hopefully she'll explore them on an Endgame level someday. But for now, am excited to see where the Crescent City series will go from here 😉 I highly recommend reading this series after ToG and ESPECIALLY ACOTAR. I did not want this to end, I could still read another 500 pages of this beautiful book and world. Already can't wait to reread 😭❤ •~•~ IT'S FINALLY HERE 😍😍 In all it's glory 🥹🥹 ~•~•~ Am so ready for Jan 2024

I'd like to formally request that Bryce make her grand re-entry to Midgard riding Helion's pegasus. . . Ok well that ⌃⌃ didn’t happen, but it doesn’t matter because this book absolutely slapped. Honestly, it’s so hard to compare SJM books with others out there, because her writing is in a unique lane of its own. I applaud her (yet again) for her ability to weave so many threads, characters and mythology into one insanely action packed tale. SPOILERS BELOW . . . I'm going to start with Bryce. I adore her. I feel like the theme of this book was ‘Level Up’, and she did this and then some. After all of the shit she went through in the previous books I loved see her step fully into her own. I’ve seen a few reviews criticising her character as being ‘insufferable’, which I find kind of interesting … mostly for the fact that when we judge something, it’s most often the thing that we don’t give ourselves permission to be or feel, or are judging within ourselves. As a collective, women have been taught to fear our own power, and here we’re presented with a fully fleshed, whole person that doesn’t feel the need to humble herself or shrink to make herself more relatable to others. Given the above, I get this can be polarising for some people who identify as female… but for me? I freaking LOVED this. The scene in particular between her and the two fae kings was so cathartic. SJM was really channelling some feminine rage and putting a metaphoric foot down against the patriarchy. Honestly, the amount of times I wish I’d been in a position to fight back like this… it was so wonderful to read. Bryce’s character arc across all three books felt right to me. The bit of tension between her and Hunt also felt valid - I could see things from both their sides and it felt true to their characters. Ultimately, Bryce was carrying the sole weight of being the key to destroying the Asteri, and her mental fortitude (while maybe it came across as being too headstrong at times) was needed in order for her to carry this out. Sorry not sorry. Onto Hunt - bless him, he really went through it in this book. I also thoroughly enjoyed his ‘Level Up’ towards the end. The romantic tension between he and Bryce was definitely higher in books 1 & 2 - here they were more in the ‘marriage phase’ of being a couple, which I guess is fine… although I wish we’d had a little bit more of a dramatic reunion / spice. Overall Hunt has always been a solid character in my mind. Lidia & Ruhn… I LOVE. They carried the romance in this book. Lidia was an incredible personality to work into the mix - she kind of reminds me a bit of Manon in that she’s not the FMC, but easily could be. Ithan - his scene with Connor had me sobbing. I had secretly hoped he’d end up as the Prime! Nesta - I’ve never been a massive fan of hers, but I was surprised by how much I enjoyed her in this book!. All of the snark and banter between her and Bryce was fantastic. Azriel - honestly, I’ve never gotten much from Az, and this book was no different. I think people project onto his personality (which is very quiet) and build stories about him in their own minds, because in reality we know very little about him, and he doesn't really speak that often. That being said, I loved the sweet moment between him and Nesta when he convinced her to take off the mask - it did mushy things to my heart. THE ENDING I have no words except… what in the holy Interstellar!!? SJM can sure write a mind blowing action scene. So. Freaking. Amazing. THE ACOTAR CROSSOVER For the most part, I was OK with how this panned out. There was always going to be a fine line between this remaining a Crescent City book vs turning into an ACOTAR take over. I think I would have liked just a **smidge** more from the interactions between Bryce and the gang - particularly with Rhys, Cassian and Feyre (who did not make an appearance at all.) It honestly felt like a Nesta x Crescent City crossover in the end, but I’m not mad about it. I am glad SJM stuck with the Crescent City POVs and that it stayed firmly a CC book. Furthermore, now that she has opened the connection between the two worlds, it leaves room for CC characters to cameo in future ACOTAR books which I wouldn’t object to in the slightest. And with the Starsword now back in Velaris… I’m sure it will come into play in future books. Side note: Randall & Ember’s bonus chapter - IDK why, but she continues to portray Rhys as an overbearing asshole? I just want the Rhys we know and love back. THE NEXT CRESCENT CITY BOOK I’d guess it will be a continuation of Tharion’s story. His journey in this book, was, essentially a retelling of The Little Mermaid - it would make sense for the next book given House of Many Waters is the remaining title. I think SJM put Tharion through the ringer in this book to lay the groundwork for a lot of character growth and redemption should his story continue. Maybe he and Ariadne are going to wind up together?? Ithan's romance was also hinted at with Perry, but again there's a wide open space there so that's also another possibility. TO SUM UP I'm really sad this series is over, I've loved every second of it. <3

What a ROLLER COASTER. Was it perfect? No. But personally I still really did love this book so so soooooo much! Which apparently is an unpopular opinion… I literally couldn’t put this down and had the BEST time, I felt every single emotion under the sun and I cannot stop crying because it’s OVER?!! What do you mean??? Without a doubt my favorite urban fantasy romance series. No question. No notes. Goodbye. I’m about to read it all over again. MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!!!!!!! The crossover: I am a Nesta Stan through and through, she is my favorite character in the ACOTAR series and one of my all time favorite FMCs, so that being said, of course I ADORED THIS! It was so much fun seeing her and Az’s relationship and seeing her through the eyes of Bryce, getting the recognition as the warrior she truly is. And Az…. I’m an azriel girlie, he’s my favorite SJM man so I devoured every last crumb of his like a starved animal!!! Her scenes had me sobbing and I cannot explain how much fun I had seeing Bryce interact with Az and Nesta. Don’t even get me started on Ember and Nesta…It was EVERYTHING! Personally I thought the crossover was perfect and gave us exactly what we needed without giving us too much ACOTAR. And it planted so many seeds for ACOTAR 6 I just CANNOT WAIT! I know a lot of people were hoping for TOG characters to come into play but personally I was not expecting it to go that way and was extremely satisfied with all the connections to TOG! I gasped multiple times. Ruhn and Lidia: ABSOLUTELY CARRIED!!! Oh my god to say I’m obsessed with them is an understatement. I loved reading more about Lidias story she’s definitely my favorite CC character. I loved that SJM made her a mom and learning about her lineage had me in TEARS!! I think her and Ruhns relationship was a bit rushed but I was super happy with how it ended! Ruhn is zaddy and I love him! Bryce and Hunt: i loved Bryce and hunt so much, are they my favorite SJM couple? No. But adore them because they’re DIFFERENT! They truly brought out the best in one another and I LOVED that. I will say I was not a fan of how Bryce treated Hunt during their reunion and I feel like her hate for the Fae was poorly placed. However she did still have her badass moments, a lot of reminded me of Aelin with her secret plans and I loved that. I also appreciated how SJM didn’t make her besties with Az and Nesta and kept her guard up around them. It made sense that she wouldn’t trust them and choose herself and her home first. Hunts a deadly cinnamon role and I love that for him. I’m so happy they got the ending they deserved I miss them already! Tharion and Ithan: Ugh I love them and I know they are getting hate in this book but for whatever reason I really enjoyed their stories and had a blast reading about them. I really enjoyed the direction SJM took them and I cannot WAIT to find out where they take us in the next book! Plot: this was absolutely high fantasy first, romance second and I ate it UP! it was so exciting to get so many answers and see so many theory’s proven in this book! I still have so many questions but I am confident SJM was intentional in leaving important pieces unanswered to set up the next CC book! I will say I was definitely a little disappointed by the battle at the end. I just felt like it ended a bit too quickly and I almost wanted more heartache…. But at the same time I still loved it? Idk im biased. Personally I loved the multiple POVs, i think that is something SJM does so well and I love seeing everything weave together in the end! Last point… WHAT WAS FURY DOING THE WHOLE TIME???? Where was she??? Who is she??? I need to know.

"The Hind knelt before her undying masters and contemplated how it would feel to tear out their throats." ❤️‍🔥- Line 1, Page 1. Spoiler Free Review. SJM has somehow managed to completely capture my heart and blow my mind once again! I want to start by saying that SJM never fails to completely capture my heart. Some books I may love just a tiny bit more but there is no doubt that I have loved everything she has written. With House of Flame and Shadow I was pulled in immediately and in a complete choke hold. I did not want to move! Not to eat, work, or even talk to anyone. Like, hello. Leave me alone, I'm in Midgard right now. Often I find that there's a slow build with SJM books. Nah lol. Not with this one. From page one it is off to the races I had to actually steal moments to catch my breath, stare at the ceiling for a little bit. Do my best to collect myself and then just jump right back in. It is so addictive and fast paced! It was consuming, exciting, riveting, an edge of your seat, nail biting thrill ride!! In the first two books there were times I would get a little lost with the plot because, let's be honest- there's A LOT going on but with HOFAS I felt that the story was very clear and concise. No murky or confusing plot points. No need to get out your legal pad to take notes. Lol. 😉 The pacing was fast for a good amount of the time but slowed when necessary letting you breathe for a moment to take in all that is going on. The romance is absolutely chef's kiss 💋 The magic is ohhh so magical. And that crossover - lawd. I need some of ya'll to get at me because... All in all SJM delivered, she put in the work on this one. I would say it's arguably her best book to date! Okay, maybe not that far.. but still one of the best. I'm not going to post any quotes or passages at this time as the majority will be spoilers - will update this review at a later time for that. 💗

★5 stars 800+ pages in 3 days, I swear all I did was eat, sleep, and breathe this thing. And when a book consumes me that much in that amount of time, regardless of any issues I have with it, it's automatically a 5 star read for me. Seriously, WHAT A RIDE!!! I loved every second, even though every one of those seconds I was a constant, spiraling ball of anxiety. I’m shook, I’m exhausted, I’m devastated it’s over 😭 SJM has done it again, imo, I honestly don’t know what I’m supposed to do with my life now lmao. NEED THE NEXT ACOTAR ASAP (wishful thinking) 🫠 ╰┈➤Maybe a full rtc??? Idk I’m still reeling–the book hangover is so real!!! 😫💔😭 Finding me that Walmart edition online, smh in what world does Walmart get a better bonus chapter than B&N??? ----------------- Pre-review: Okay I know I’m so late to the party on this one (let’s be real tho this thing is equal to the weight of a small child and the motivation has not been motivating 😩), but tbh still impressed I managed to evade any and all spoilers like the freaking plague 🏃🏻‍♀️🏃🏻‍♀️🏃🏻‍♀️ My bffs have been waiting for me to finish this so we can immediately rant with all the drinks 🍹 ⋆₊⊹⁀➴ Happy March my lovelies, cheers to a weekend with nothing to do but inhale this!!! 🥰🙌

No spoilers This was EVERYTHING it should have been My whole brain is very scattered. I really haven’t slept since this book came in my hands. First foremost I think this book is going to be very polarizing to the fandom because there was a lot of expectations going in and also this book really did switch up from her usual ”fairycorn” box that she’s been put it. This was fantasy first and second and then sci-fi and then romance fourth- there was the romance, but it was the very last thing on everybody’s mind. I am very pleased with how everything turned out - the careful reading that I did really did pay off. My thoughts were mostly correct. I think I was only wrong about three bigger things and I was correct about all the other bigger things which I do feel very good about and it also makes me very secure in Sarah’s writing. I had a lot of anxiety going into this book because i was like “did I put Sarah on a pedestal? Did I put too much on her” and I was really pleasantly surprised. (And yes I’m feeling like a smug a-hole) Even with all of my careful reading, she still managed to shock me … she still managed to make me gasp before air multiple times. And again with Sjm, she left me with a lot of questions where are certain things going to go and yet she also satisfied me in a way because it did not end in a cliffhanger and everything felt settled. I feel calm, and I’m just ready to move into the next with her on her time - I saw those hint at what she was pushing towards… LETS GO!!! I think this book is going to be very polarizing to the fandom, because there was a lot of expectation on how it could’ve gone. But this was a crescent city book through & through from the pacing to the POV’s- it stay true to its core as a CC book. Sjm could’ve very easily made this into a fan service “cash grab” and I respect the fact that she did not. She opened the door. She’s going to walk through that door, but THIS book stayed very true to itself. I do not entertain the fact that I am better than Sarah in anyway, but there was one major plot point that made me tilt my head and go that’s an interesting way that she decided to direct it. I’m curious on the thought process of that because there was an other answer that could have been used but I like the way that she used every character to solve the bigger problem so in a way I almost prefer it despite the fact that I was confused for a second. But I honestly think that’s my only con and it’s not even a con. It was more of just like “OK ground yourself for a second there babe.” I was honestly floored by the amount of oh wow moments. Like the people who came to help in the end …that was very emotional for me and it really changes the way that you view certain things in the other books when you have a new perspective and I think that’s the beauty of Sjm she really does that with characters that you think could be evil and it turns out we just hadn’t seen the whole picture. And it made me LOVE a *wink wink* character whom I’m normally neutral on. All in all, I am sad that it’s over, but I am very happy with the conclusion… now can we please talk about what’s gonna be happening in the acotar world because Sarah left some things…

The friends they’d made were what mattered in the end. Not the enemies. Through love, all is possible. Spice: 🌶️🌶️ I knew this book was going to alter my brain chemistry. It is so incredibly well thought out and complex. I always complain that I have to wait two or more years for each of her books, but given how intricate they all are, I actually find it weird that Sarah J Maas doesn't need more time for them. What's more, without spoiling anything, my favorite part is obviously the connections the Maasverse worlds have with each other. We all know there's a connection, but the way it all comes together had me screaming into the void in delight. Also, even if I hadn't seen SJM's interview about writing more Crescent City books in the future, this book would've been enough to answer those questions for me. She makes abundantly clear that she intends to write more stories in this world and I couldn't be more excited. Although, she emphasized that we won't be getting them any time soon. She'll probably let us sizzle like she did with A Court of Silver Flames. Possibly even longer than that. At least we're getting Azriel's book soon(ish). Furthermore, if I didn't already love Bryce Adelaide Quinlan, and I most definitely do, this book alone would do it. She is not the first in the list of SJM's badass and cunning female protagonists and she's not going to be the last. However, out of all three books in the series, this is the most delightfully clever she has ever been. She took on all those oppressors and sexist fuckers like a goddamn pro. Also, she has the most amazing comebacks out of all the other SJM ladies. I honestly think she could beat Aelin in a verbal duel. She does make some choices that feel a little questionable and a little too risky, and some that may or may not be a little redundant. Other than that though, she blew my mind. Moreover, Hunt has to be the unluckiest boy in all of Midgard. The poor guy just can't escape unrelenting pain and suffering. He's been through so much shit already, it's hard to see him go through it all over again. Seeing a character that you love so much get a glimpse of true happiness only to have it ripped from his grasp is always such a punch in the gut. Me eating it all up like it doesn't eviscerate my very being every single time is completely unrelated. At least Hunt actually has allies now. He has people who care about him and want to help him. In spite of his suffering and all the trauma, he still supports Bryce and her quest to overthrow the government, even if it terrifies him. Besides, we finally learn the truth of his origins, which is every bit as fascinating as any other revelation in the book. In addition, I adored the dynamic between Hunt and Bryce in this book more so than the other two. It is so refreshing compared to what I usually read from SJM as well as other romance authors. SJM did not follow the standard 'character A dropping everything immediately to save character B no matter the consequences'. Instead, both Bryce and Hunt acknowledge that protecting innocents is more important than protecting each other, but they also have true faith in the other's ability to protect and keep themselves alive. They both choose the greater good over their mate on several occasions and only after securing that do they help one another. None of this diminishes their feelings or how strong their bond is. On the contrary, it shows a deep understanding between them. They respect and follow the other's wishes instead of being selfish. Likewise, I loved Ruhn and Lidia's storyline. They have their own character development throughout the book, especially Lidia whose character is completely different from what we have known for most of the series. She is more than just The Hind. Her backstory is slowly unraveled throughout the book, and while it is a sad one, it is also my favorite bit of exposition in the book. (I can't tell you. You have to read it!) Sadly she is not easily accepted by Ruhn specifically after the revelation of her true identity, something she is desperate to resolve. For his part, Ruhn doesn't have as much character development as Lidia but her revelation shocks him and leaves him feeling betrayed on top of being captured by sadists. He doesn't take the news so well, therefore, most of his journey is to accept Lidia's Daybright side as well as her Hind side. I loved their romance just as much as I did Bryce and Hunt's, maybe even more so. It is a relationship in progress and it has a lot of interesting ups and downs. Although, there's one particular scene between the two that I cannot disclose, but found a little questionable and wonder if it is really necessary. All I can say is it could have been written differently and at another part of the book. The best characters in this entire series, however, are Tharion and Ithan. Tharion 'I wanna be where the people are' Ketos is quite simply a hot mess. In fact, there has never been a hot mess, that was hotter or messier than this sweet himbo. He makes one bad decision after the other and drags everyone he loves down with him. I'm sorry to say this but it's hilarious. The boy is the living embodiment of "Your life's so sad, it's funny" and I mean this in the nicest way possible. He needs a hug and a really good therapist. Nevertheless, he gets some of his shit together eventually, but there's still plenty of room to grow. Then, there's Ithan 'I want to help but I am super bad at it' Holstrom. As the nickname suggests, he desperately wants to help his friends, the wolves, and the whole world. The problem is that he can't quite manage to do that very well. The sentiment is there, but that's as much as he has going on for him. It's usually not even his fault, it's just that the pup is simply out of luck. At least for the majority of the book. He comes around eventually. A little bit. No wonder he's such good friends with Tharion, amiright? The good news is that since their respective stories and characters are still in need of development in all aspects, I have a feeling that the next Crescent City books SJM has mentioned will revolve heavily around them 🤞🏻 We'll see what we see, though. Finally, I couldn't possibly not mention the most delightful part of the story. At the end of HOSAB, Bryce uses The Horn and ends up in Velaris. Now, I truly loved every minute of this plotline. I squealed like a little girl just at the sight of the names on the paper. I swear I actually did. If I had one little complaint, it would be that I expected a lot more presence from the Inner Circle. I would have loved it more if the gang had been more involved in the story and that more of them would be there. I was expecting an epic Avengers: Endgame style showdown, which happened in a way, but not exactly in the way I had hoped. It did not diminish the experience in the slightest, however. If anything, I'm still dying to read the next book in the series, whenever that comes out.

I get so nervous for a series to end, to potentially be left unsatisfied but GOD DAMN. My heart was racing throughout the last 20% of this book (in typical SJM fashion) and loved everything about how this ended.

** spoiler alert ** “We need more complex female characters!!” You couldn’t even handle Bryce bffr No bc everyone saying Bryce was out of character make no sense to me, she’s selfless so ofc she would put a war and saving innocents above keeping herself emotionally stable. Her character is the literal same as it was in the last book. Bearing in mind all of this happened within two weeks, what kind of character development were you looking for lol. I love that hunt and Bryce put the safety of others above their own, trusting each other to keep themselves safe, and securing that before helping each other. It’s on brand for them. They’re mates for a reason. They so selfless it hurts ugh they’re literally my parents 😫😭🙏💗 Her telling hunt to suck it up was shitty and she apologised for it. If you can’t forgive a flawed, complex character that’s on you. She made mistakes because she not perfect. She also had responsibilities, everyone relied solely on her to make all the decisions. And the stakes were also higher so she’s shouldering all that pressure, and without checking in with herself, she’s bound to fuck up someplace but I’d rather she be taking out her frustration with loved ones that understand her than at the cost of innocent lives. Also she had every right to question if she even wanted to help the fae that abused her and her mum since she was little. When she’s seen how her whole lineage is based on a lie, her ancestors were POS fae, ofc she’s gna be listless. But her character development (that happened over ten-ish days mind u) WAS that she learned that not all fae were despicable. How there are many fae that were worth saving, worth risking everything for. It was being bigger than herself and using her powers for good, seeing the best in others when they never did in her. Give the girl some grace ffs. Hunt also needed the tough love to snap out of the downward spiral he was teetering rlly close to. He was becoming the umbra mortis as a shield against his trauma but that’s not what- not who he is which was what Bryce was reminding him of. If he backed out of this bc of his fears he would’ve regretted it and hated himself forever. That’s not who he is as a person, he’s not a coward. Bryce rlly should’ve been more considerate but she did what she had to do. I understood where her head was at and so did hunt… sacrifices had to be made, this is WAR. Quinlar progressed sm as a couple here imo them showing each other that they want each other for who they are not what they’re made of. I love quinlar sfm they’re my precious adorable wholesome hot asf comfort couple. They’ve honestly been the most relatable, genuine, enjoyable and loveable sjm couple I’ve read so far. ”you’re my home, Hunt. Our love spans across stars and worlds remember? I’ll always find you.” Quinlar they could never make me hate you 🥹🎀💅💕💋💗🫂💘🦋🗣️ RuhnLidia my pookies they’ll forever be adored by me. I was so sure Ithan would end up with Sigrid but that shit took a run for the hills lmfaoooo but I’m already shipping IthanPerry so hardddd — also! When he would say Perry smelt the same even after his powers came back?? (SHES GNA BE HIS MATE IM CALLING IT RHRN) Ngl his absolutely unfortunate decisions were hilarious 😭😭 he just went from bad to worse it was too fucking funny. Tharion’s story took a turn lol was notttt expecting marriage of convenience but good for him 🤭 the only gripe I have is that he shouldn’t have been like ‘I’ll leave her to get married to you if you take the refugees’ brooo I felt so fking betrayed like full on GASPED at the audacity, the GUMPTION! Like wdymmmm I thought u had a lil moment in the room?!! Plus what’re u doing hopping from one girl to another? 😭🤚 have some sharam ! His questionable decisions didn’t deter me from loving him tho, he was just in a silly goofy mood what can I say 💀😭 As for the crossover??? Omfds it was so intense I loved the fuck out of it. Az and nesta my two fav characters from ACOTAR teaming with my fav from cc???? 🤯🫨 genuinely haven’t had the biggest rush like that in years. Loved that the crossover didn’t bleed too much into the CC. It had THE perfect amount of crossover Gahh I’m in love. NESTA BRYCE FRIENDSHIP HAD ME IN A CHOKEHOLD. THE NESTA GIRLYS WERE FEDDDD WITH THIS BOOK 🗣️🗣️ I loveeeeed to see nesta thriving and being her best self ugh it had me all misty eyed with the way she’s progressed in the last couple months 🥹 ALSO IT GAVE ME SM HOPE BC HER POWERS ARE STILL SO FKING THERE AAAHHHH SHE SLAYED SO HARD IN THIS BOOK I CANNOT WAIT FOR THE NEXT ACOTAR BOOK ANBDHDHD And the friendship between Az and Nesta?!! Broke my whole fking heart 😭😫 they’re so precioussss I wanna gobble them whole! Best platonic friendship in the ACOTAR series u literally cannot prove me wrong bye. Anyways that ending with hunt saving Bryce from the portal AND HIM SOBBING DYING CRYING FOR BRYCE TO COME BACK?! He had 👉ME👈 sobbing dying crying right along with him 😭🤚 I knew to an extent that Bryce would be revived — it’s sjm let’s be real here — but the fact that it would’ve been double homicidal trauma bc shahar died in a similar way?! 😭😭😭 The way my heart broke and broke for hunt omfds u just had to be there 😭😭😭 I cried sm times in this book it was disgusting 😭 the way I was sobbing all over the floor when ruhn Baxian and hunt were in the dungeons 😭😫 ruhn telling them a joke had me wanting to laugh and cry but I couldn’t decide which so I did both and then just started clawing at my chest for the torture to just stopppp 😭😭💔💔💔 The way this book was a highlight of my month bc I’ve never read a book so fast 🤧 didn’t even get the chance to savour it before i was at the last fifty pages ☹️ but it was sooo worth it ugh cannot wait for my rr 🤭

Not even going to put a quote yet because even that would be a spoiler for the utter perfection of this book. Check back in a few months when all of you wonderful people have been able to get your time with Flame and Shadow as well 🤍 I loved every second. I loved that the entire trilogy seems to follow one collective idea, that our friends are the most important people in our lives, and we need to constantly cultivate those relationships. It's the first step to happiness! It will help you through anything: any hardship, any pain, any grief. I love that SJM makes universes so vast, and so special, that it's so easy to get lost in them. I hope you all love this book as much as I do. As a Bryce girl till the end of time, it more than lived up to my hopes. It was a dream. I already cannot wait to start back at the beginning.

*waited two YEARS to finish this book in two days* Haven’t cried this hard since kingdom of ash. Im unwell. Need multiple business days to process.

5 ⭐️ “Let’s light it up” 🥹😭💫 For me, the story in this series will always be about Danika and Bryce. Hunt is just a cute addition😂 I cried, I cheered, I mourned, I healed. I got the answers I didn’t even know I needed. It’s not really a review, but I loved this book and I think this book…I think the book..loved ME? 😂🥲 —————- Pre read: I am ready. Before I start, I want to apologise in advance for any outbursts I have whilst reading this. Sarah J Maas WILL be hearing from my therapist if this goes bad.

“Never Flinch” by Stephen King has been one of the most anticipated horror books of 2025, and rightfully so. In what began with the incredible Mr. Mercedes trilogy, it ultimately became the catalyst for one of King’s most beloved characters, Holly Gibney. I couldn’t wait to dive into this novel, and as always with King, he didn’t disappoint. For everyone planning to read this novel, please note that there are six books to read beforehand. Here is the exact order for each book featuring Holly Gibney... - Mr. Mercedes - Finders Keepers - End of Watch - The Outsider - If It Bleeds - Holly - Never Flinch Before I begin my review, there are numerous trigger warnings I found while reading. They are… - Drug addiction - Sex offenders - AA - COVID - Vaccinations - Masking - Religion - Child sex offenders - Cancer - Sexual abuse - Violence and death against animals (birds, squirrels, and small animals) - Drugs - Child pornography - Anthrax - Abortion - Suicide - Rape - Homophobic slurs - Holocaust - 9/11 - Religion If any of these trigger you while reading, please do not read this novel. Moving along, it was great to see what Holly has been up to after the events of “Holly.” Now that she’s much older, you get to see how she’s matured since then. Her journey from the original trilogy to where she is now has always been fascinating for me. As I continued reading, I enjoyed all the subtle references to the previous books about Holly, particularly in how complex her character is and how she continues to search for herself in the world. She continues to be a brilliant underdog in the grand scheme of things, and watching her try to figure out what is going on during this story was a lot of fun. Speaking of references, King throws a few, especially a big one to one of his most famous novels. No spoilers here, but it made me smile from ear to ear when you catch it. As much as Holly was the star of this novel, the main antagonist, Trig, was an insane one. I’m talking beyond evil, psychotic, and demented. Combine that with reading Holly’s thought process, her little quirks, and how she discovered things as they unfolded, and it was one hell of a reading experience. King once again does King things in adding another layer to this story by introducing another antagonist, but I won’t ruin anything for you. Let’s just say, you have several stories going on at the same time, with Holly trying to make sense of it all. Even though I wouldn’t say this was a straight-up terrifying read as you would want from King, it’s more along the lines of a brilliant crime mystery novel told by a master storyteller. The characters, atmospheric writing, and the climactic race to the end had “Never Flinch” being a genuine page-turner for me. My favorite part is how King eventually weaves all these little stories into the main story, and you’re hooked beyond belief. Keep in mind, this is a slow-burn novel, but make no mistake about it, it’s worth the read because the suspense is built up over time, eventually getting to pure madness. This is hard to achieve as an author, but needless to say, King delivered and then some. It all led to an ending that was so wild, I read it twice. The tension, visuals, and final moments were fantastic. I also loved how King went over the aftermath in the final chapter, and well, let’s just say, what Uncle Stevie usually loves to do with his endings… he does here. As for Holly, for those curious as to why so many of us Constant Readers simply love this character, it’s pretty simple. She’s as real as they come and is so relatable. We all have a little Holly in us, whether you feel awkward during random life moments, blurt out things you didn’t think carefully enough to say, or just see and hear things that stand out to you but to no one else, it just makes you stand out uniquely in a sea of conformity. At least to me, it's loud and clear as to what Holly represents and is all about. Be real. Be weird. Don’t take life so seriously. Most of all, don’t ever change who you are. It might take you longer than most to figure things out and navigate in life, but you’ll get there. If Holly can do it, anyone can. I completely see why King himself has said numerous times in interviews that he’s always wondering what Holly would do, how she would figure life out, and so on. If you’ve read all seven books she’s in, she’s impactful, influential, and above all else, unforgettable. I give “Never Flinch” by Stephen King a 5/5 for being such an extraordinary reading experience. It’s a novel to deeply appreciate if you have read and enjoyed every book Holly has been in, as it’s the best one yet. The evolution of Holly from the start to now has been delightful to be a part of. She’s one of my all-time favorite characters that King has ever written, and that’s saying something. Will we get more Holly Gibney in the future? I sure hope so. Only time will tell, but for now, I’ll leave this review as Holly would because after that mind-blowing, drop-the-mic ending, it’s simply perfect. Oough.

“Extreme horror is, in its own way, merciful. It doesn’t allow you to look ahead to the end.” And here we are, another amazing Holly Gibney story. But this one doesn't involve mythical horrors or things we don't have names for - this is straight horrors that people can inflict. A man went to jail for possessing things that made him appear to be a very very bad guy. Even though he professed his innocence, he is murdered while in prison. Days later, the star witness changes his story and says he framed him, that the guilty guy never did any of the things he said he did. Worse yet, he told the DA already, weeks ago - weeks before this innocent man in prison was murdered. I loved this story as I love all Stephen King stories. I was hooked from the first page. You could feel the tension building and the pieces on the board moving. Hints are early on how the final showdown is going to go. I spent 80% of the book still trying to guess who was who and what was going on. So many great twists and interesting characters. There was only one moment that took Holly on a course I didn't quite understand - but it went seamlessly into the story and I rolled right along with it. As a side note, many asked if this one was as political as the last one. While it touches on political themes, in the US we are surrounded by them and are hard to dodge, I don't think this one digs as deep into it as the last. It touches on very sensitive topics but I don't think it fully takes a stance like the characters do. I will definitely read this one again audio, probably start with book 1 again and work my way through. Holly is just such a fun character, next to Barbara and Jerome - and I loved this story with them again. I hope, dearly, that this isn't our last. I'd love another.

King has a unique talent to have people on several different trails with the reader not knowing how they will all come together. In this writing there is Holly and Izzy in the pursuit of a killer that seems to be focused on a jury who were involved in a miscarriage of justice. The next trail is Kate and Corrie who are on a book tour, resulting in being pursued by an unknown assailant that obviously does not agree with the views being expressed in the public forum by Kate and continues to have escalating attacks. The last trail is Sista Bessie and Barbara. Barbara is a poet who Sista Bessie has “taken a liking to”. She is impressed with Barbara’s poetry perhaps with future use of her poetry in her songs. Sista Bessie is making a come back singing tour. These diverse trails that become convoluted is an exceptional approach. The ante goes up when King involves two killers who are on separate missions. Suspense, humor, revenge, regret and friendship runs rampant in this writing. Even the moments without action are never boring. There is a respectable amount of foreshadowing in this writing which helps keep the reader turning the pages as if they were on fire. Well written, believable characters and just plain interesting. Add to this the patented King ending and the result is a remarkable read.

I certainly agree with all the folks proclaiming this the best HG book yet. The plot is driven by multiple impetuses, yet remarkably, it remains unfailingly smooth and organized. Readers will be able to follow these different plot threads with ease. Naturally, at the end, they come together as one. I found Never Flinch quite a bit creepier than prior HG installments. It's an excellent detective/mystery novel all around, but it certainly also has darker elements which are truly horrifying. What adds to that horror is that the primary antagonists are utterly convinced of their own self righteous virtue. All three baddies truly believe they are serving God. I am not ashamed to admit that the extent of their delusions gave me nightmares, given just how timely this book is. I woke up in the middle of the night from a nightmare for three days straight actually. Never Flinch has the sort of characters and storyline that could very well come to life in America--that's always more frightening to me than ghost blood from an elevator or a phantom snake rattle. ____________________ Basic Premise of 3 Plots Connected Via Holly: 1) Holly is asked to be the body guard of one Kate McKay, a feminist activist who has been politically targeted by extremists. These extremists are part of a congregation that claims to be defending God's law, ironically, while openly assaulting anyone who disagrees with their message and attempting to murder opposition. Holly comes on board to travel with Kate and her assistant Izzy. 2) Holly's friend Barbara has had her book of poems published and has started to enjoy a degree of notoriety. A famous jazz singer comes in town and wants to meet Barbara to ask her if she can put music to one of her poems. The secondary plot surrounding Barbara from her POV eventually ties into the main plot. 3) Trig's POV makes up yet another plot line. Trig is an alias, and his actual identity remains a mystery for most of the novel. He is a serial killer whose eyes we see through almost from "go." He truly believes he is doing what is right, balancing the scales of justice. Holly is vaguely following these murders because her police detective friend is on the case. As all three storylines mature, Holly gets closer and more involved in uncovering Trig's true identity even though this means double duty with Kate McKay's protection. The transitions between these POVs are all very smooth, and while it might sound like a lot, I never got lost. I also remained interested in all three. ____________________ The big bads in this novel positively drip with timely irony, and including their POVs helps Mr. King make that point. People can call themselves faithful Christians all they want--the title and claim mean next to nothing. It's one actions which matter. NF challenges readers to understand this. A serial killer and a stalker/would be killer both claim to have a special relationship with God. But it's the characters like Holly and Barbara who prefer to call themselves merely spiritual who are both far more Christian in their actions. Mr. King has never shied away from political commentary. And NF brings up one of America's ongoing issues--those in power often claim to be Christian and to speak for God, but it's just smoke and mirrors for votes while they rob and slash public education, deny children medical coverage, toss the homeless out of affordable housing programs, cut all laws protecting clean air/water, and all while doing everything in their power for their billionaire friends on the golf course they flew to using millions of taxpayer dollars for Air Force One. But hey, at least they can hold the Bible upside down for a photo op before heading back to pardon child sex traffickers.

Something about cracking open a new Stephen King book just feels like coming home. No matter how many books I read and reread by him I never get tired of visiting his stories. I absolutely LOVED this one and stayed up entirely too late reading it because I just HAD to know. And for all those Holly haters out there, just shush and be grateful we’re still getting new work from King well in to his 70s!

Stephen King's latest novel, "Never Flinch", is many things: a fast-paced police procedural crime thriller, an examination of our contemporary political divisiveness, a Holly Gibney novel (Yay!), and a multi-layered literary triptych on the nature of good and evil. Lots of stuff is going on in this story. There are three separate narrative threads happening all at once, which, in lesser hands, would probably confuse the readers. Thankfully, this is Papa King. The guy can deftly handle three different storylines at once, and he can intricately weave and intertwine said storylines into an incredibly intense and satisfying climax. Gibney---one of my new favorite detective characters---is doing double-duty in this. First, she is helping the police on a serial murder case that involves a trial which resulted in the conviction of a man who later turned out to be innocent. The serial killer is enacting his own type of righteous punishment, which isn't really righteous at all. Second, she has been hired by a well-known feminist to be a bodyguard, a job description that she is not too keen on. This feminist is being stalked by a fundamentalist Christian whacko who detests her pro-choice and pro-LGBTQ+ views. Then, there is a third story involving Sistah Bessie, a pop/gospel star popular from the '70s and '80s (loosely based on the real-life Mavis Staples) on a reunion tour. She befriends Holly's friend, Barbara, asking her to join the tour because she is enamored by Barbara's recently-published book of poetry. Like I said: lots of stuff going on. But I think I see what King is doing here. Three stories. Each one is an examination of the types of good and evil in the world. Sistah Bessie is, of course, the depiction of good. She is an embodiment of love and compassion. The stalker is a depiction of a type of evil that represents a perversion of good. This character, despite what they do, is sympathetic to an extent, as they are products of a perverse indoctrination of Christian ideology: They are doing what they believe is God's work. The third type of evil is the serial killer, representing an inexplicable (although King tries to offer an explanation) desire for random murder and mayhem. He is difficult to pin down because he does not follow a logical modus operandi or motivation. He is simply insane. How King intertwines these multiple characters and these three stories while keeping it believable is, of course, his brilliance.

King was top of his game again with this next book in the Holly Gibney series. Truly gripping on the long build up to the excellent finale. Nothing supernatural in this one, so a full-on crime thriller. Great characters, perfect pacing and a really suspense filled story. Can’t wait for the next Holly book. I was a big fan of the series before but this one cements it even more.

Another excellent read by David Baldacci. In fact, all his books have been remarkable. Such a versatile writer. The 6:20 man series is no exception. The rollercoaster of action starts from the very first page and never stops. Divine is the main character in this read and not someone to mess with if you want to keep good health. He faces The Mob, assassins, a government faction and forms alliances with the strangest people. I was out of breath by the end of this book. Final vote…..great read and deserves a 5. Fellow GR friends, come join me in this exciting action ride.

In this fast paced, page-turning continuing series thriller, readers find themselves in the midst of a dual mystery. Travis Devine who works for the government and has highly specialized skills, is our protagonist being pursued by someone who is bent on killing him. Why? And, he is also in the midst of a case to protect Betsy, a young 12-year-old girl whose parents were said to have died of an overdose and now wants to be adopted by her only living relative, her Uncle Danny. Who just happens to not be a very good person, and is also being investigated by the FBI for RICO charges. And, who Travis once served with in the Army. Not to mention the many witnesses against Danny who are being murdered around him. Are these just a coincidence? Travis also has doubts about the true reason and circumstance for Betsy’s parent’s death. Needless to say, Travis has quite a lot on his hands to keep himself and Betsy safe. As Devine gets more involved in caring about Betsy’s welfare, the more complicated things become. “Apparently, in the world in which he operated now, few could be trusted…” Are there domestic terrorists looming between these pages? “It’s a different world, and the only thing you can be sure of is nothing and that includes people.” The more and more I got into this story, the more I began to wonder if this was actually a foretelling of the Trump administration’s plan for what was going to happen to our own government. For me to say more would be a spoiler. I guess you are wondering if I am just keeping spoilers from you about this story, or have some insights into this supposed foretelling? Well, perhaps…both. But again, let’s be clear, I don’t divulge spoilers. So, it is best to just get this book, and read it. Then you can come to your own conclusions. 😉 Still, to be honest, I can’t help but be concerned about what some voters may have unknowingly unleashed upon our country. And, could this story be a blueprint for those in aspirational roles? Baldacci is amazing when it comes to creating intriguing characters and telling a well-crafted story. He provides quick, fast chapters, and a well-paced plot that keeps readers engaged. Although this is a series, this one can be read as a stand-alone. But if you can, following the series is always best. Just be prepared to not want to put this one down once you get started!

To Die For is book 3 in the Travis Devine series and in my opinion, the best. From start to finish, this is one amazing book. It is an action packed story, with twists and turns throughout. At the same time it is emotional, with a little girl in danger. The girl from the train is still stalking Travis and seems to be getting closer. His boss sends him to Seattle to watch over a 12 year old orphan, Betsy. She has recently lost her parents in what police call a drug overdose, but Betsy knows better. Travis of course needs to look into this claim, putting himself in danger. There is so much more to this story, with a lot going on at all times. There is no time to take a breath before more gunshots are fired in his direction. Travis is a tough guy but with a heart of gold and this little girl gets under his skin. He won’t stop until he gets to the bottom of what is going on in this town, and what happened to Betsy’s parents. David Baldacci always writes such compelling stories, with realistic characters that you will either love or hate. I can’t recommend his books enough. An absolute master for crime fiction. Thanks so much to Macmillan Australia for sending me an early copy of To Die For. As soon as it arrived I had to start it. Publishes on October 29th.

I’ve been a fan of David Baldacci for years, and once again, he’s delivered a thrilling read! This time, Travis Devine is sent to Seattle for what seems like a straightforward job—helping the FBI escort a young girl, Betsy Odom, to a meeting with her uncle. But what starts as a routine mission quickly escalates into something much darker and more dangerous. As Devine gets to know Betsy, he starts to uncover a web of secrets that might change everything he thought he knew. I couldn’t put this book down! The pacing was spot-on, with just the right balance of action, suspense, and character development. Baldacci’s skill at weaving in twists kept me guessing at every turn, and I loved how he built the tension throughout. Travis Devine is a great protagonist—he’s tough, but there’s a vulnerability to him that makes him easy to root for. I really enjoyed his relationship with Betsy, and it added a nice emotional layer to the story. The supporting cast was strong, though I’ll admit there were a lot of characters to keep track of, and at times it felt like I had to flip back to remember who was who. But that’s really a small quibble in an otherwise fantastic book. The story is fast-paced but doesn’t feel rushed, and while it’s not the most weighty or thought-provoking novel out there, it was the perfect kind of fun, page-turning thriller that I love. If you’ve enjoyed the first two books in this series, you’ll definitely want to pick this one up. It was a blast to read, and I’m already looking forward to seeing where Baldacci takes Travis Devine next. Highly recommend! Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for the eARC in exchange for my honest opinion.

AN ACTION-PACKED AND INTRIGUING READ SUMMARY Travis Devine travels to Seattle and the Pacific Northwest to assist with a complicated FBI case. His mission begins when he helps the FBI escort a impestous twelve-year-old orphan, Betsy Odom, to a meeting with her infamous uncle, Danny Glass, who is currently under federal investigation, but also an past combat buddy of Devine’s. Glass is interested in becoming Betsy legal guardian and eventually adopting his niece. During the mission Devine comes face to face with his female nemesis, and his assignment becomes even more complicated as Betsy insists that her parents were not drug dealers as the police claim. At her insistence Devine searches for the answers of how Betsy’s parents really died, and unearths more than he bargained for. REVIEW David Baldacci captivates readers with this complicated and timely story of conspiracy and intrigue. His writing, as always is exemplary and his characters are gripping. Some are colorful, while others are despicable and richly flawed. Devine drives the narrative forward with his every gut-wrenching move to save Betsy and you can't stop turning the pages. My favorite character was the Auburn curley-haired and freckled Betsy, who according to Travis is twelve going on forty-two and has a mouth like a sailor. She is not afraid to speak up when those around her are not listening to her. TO DIE FOR is a compelling, meticulous and action-packed read. The twists and turns keep your head in the entertaining book. Highly recommended! Thanks to Netgalley for an advance reading copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Publisher Grand Central Publishing Published November 12, 2024 Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

Well written. Complex characters. Action packed story line. Excellent book. This is the third book of the 6:20 Man. This book can be read as a standalone, but I think it’s better to read the previous two books first. I recommend this book.

To Die For is book 3 in the 6:20 man series by David Baldacci. Travis Devine is back and his time as an Army Ranger will come in very useful on this mission. Devine is asked to fly to Seattle to assist the FBI with a twelve year old girl whose parents died right in front of her. Betsy Odom is the girl's name and her uncle wants to become her guardian. Her uncle is Danny Glass and is being held for RICO charges. His trial comes up soon, but witnesses that are supposed to testify against Glass keep turning up dead. Devine is happy to help with this case as it will keep him under the radar from the Girl on the Train who tried to kill him in Switzerland. This case isn't what it seems. Devine finds conflicts everywhere he looks. The cause of death of Betsy's parents was reported as a drug overdose, but Betsy says they never did drugs! Their two best friends said the same thing. What's going on here? Then a man tells Travis that he has information for him an he wants to meet him later. When Travis shows up, the man is dead. This small rural town where the Odom's died is hiding something and something very big! The mayor is the police chief's wife and things don't seem right here. This small town has state of the art military artillery, helicopters, and state of the art buildings. This is not what you expect to see in a small town. The FBI is worried that Glass wouldn't make the best guardian for Betsy. Travis and Glass know each other from a mission in the Army. Glass got a medal for the mission after Devine recommended him for it. Glass isn't sure if he can trust Devine, but he doesn't have much of a choice. Devine promises to keep Betsy safe and give up his life for her if it comes to that. Glass is supposed to turn over evidence of a larger criminal to get off on the RICO charges. The problem is if the larger criminals find out the case against Glass was dropped, they'll figure out what happened and go after Betsy for payback. The girl on the train makes contact with Devine and wants to meet face to face. Can Devine trust her? Can she be of assistance on this case? She says she knows something that will break the case open. Devine has his work cut out for him on this case. It's hard to know who the enemies are and who the allies are. As he works to protect Betsy and find out the truth about what happened to her parents, Devine will be in danger at every turn. Why is an entire town hiding a big secret? Could that secret affect the nation? To Die For is a book that keeps you wanting more. I couldn't wait to read this book each day as you will be thinking about it when you can't read. To Die For is an exceptional thriller with characters that you will come to care for deeply. I rate To Die For 5 stars with my very highest recommendation. I'd like to thank NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for an advanced copy of To Die For in exchange for a fair review. I can't wait for the next book in the series! #ToDieFor

I really don’t know how he does it. David Baldacci has written another amazing thriller that leaves you guessing until the last few chapters, and will keep you reading into the early hours of the morning. In my humble opinion, of course 💙

I really enjoyed this book. It contained a lot of twists and action.

One can always be certain that a David Baldacci novel will be captivating and will hold your interest in a riveting and exciting thriller. There is a plethora of action in the plot —- “the girl on the train “ who wants to kill Travis Devine, a RICO investigation wherein witnesses are murdered, FBI and DHS working together along with local police, an orphaned 12 year old girl who is the subject of a custody battle, etc. The writing is superb and constantly requires the reader to turn the page to see what happens next. This book is highly recommended for all who enjoy this genre and I thank NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for the opportunity to read and review this book prior to publication.

Any book by this author is sure to be a treat for me, and this - the third in the series featuring ex-Army Ranger Travis Devine - certainly doesn't disappoint. This time out, he's been called to Seattle to protect 12-year-old Betsy Odom, who recently lost both her parents to drug overdoses. He's a bit reluctant to become a glorified babysitter or do anything that puts him in a spotlilght, especially since his recent encounter in Switzerland with the "girl on the train" that nearly cost him his life. But duty calls (or more to the point, his boss, so off to Seattle he goes. Betsy's long-lost uncle, Danny Glass, wants her to come live with him. But despite having more riches than King Midas (or maybe because of it), Danny is under FBI investigation for RICO violations that could put him behind bars for a very long time. The FBI has an agent on the scene guarding Betsy, but there's reason to believe Betsy may not be safe so they're hedging their bets by having Devine run interference. Almost from the start, though, Travis senses something's wrong. To begin with, Betsy - who was with her parents when they suddenly convulsed and died - insists they never did drugs. Further, the official record notes that Betsy herself administered Narcan to try to save them - a claim she disputes as well. The police in the tiny town in which the parents died, though, insist they investigated thoroughly and indeed, drugs were involved. But after meeting with a couple of the Odoms' friends who are hanging out in their house, Travis is even more convinced that some kind of cover-up is in place - perhaps an extensive one that reaches far beyond the local cops and might even (gasp) put him in the crosshairs of that mysterious girl on the train once again. All told, it's quite an intriguing adventure, and now that it's over, I'm once again hoping the next installment will come sooner rather than later. Meantime, thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review a pre-release copy of this one.

This is the third book I've read in David Baldacci’s The 6:20 Man series, and it was a brilliant read. The story, featuring former Army Ranger Travis Devine, is action-packed from the first page, drawing him into a complex web of conspiracy, a family tragedy, and his recurring nemesis, "The Girl on the Train." Baldacci is a master of the thriller genre. Crucially, the author's style flows perfectly for my reading pace—the short chapters and relentless tempo make it impossible to put down. If you enjoy intricate plots, high stakes, and compelling, morally grey characters, this is a must-read. Based on the strength of this novel, I absolutely need to try more of David Baldacci's books, Not just this series...

I gave this book five stars, not because it was perfect - no book is. It didn’t disappoint me in any material way, it was well written, and it met my expectations. Nothing frustrates me like a review that compliments a book, saying more or less the same thing, then assigns three or four stars. A sure sign of a reader who doesn’t understand what they are doing. This may have been the best 6:20 Man novel, it added a lot of complexity to old characters, completing many prior story lines while opening new doors. I hope Agent Devine returns in a fourth book. A fast-moving, exciting read that surprised in good ways and kept me guessing.

Travis Devine isn’t Reacher, but an equal of sort. A very complex measure of law enforcers reaching for a solution which buried deeply in so many layers. After the prelude this book was hard to put down. FBI, DHS, CIA and other alphabet groups carrying out complex plans to end a group of people from upending the Government. I think this one of his best stories in awhile. Just my humble opinion.

To Die For was fantastic! I loved the fast-paced plot, sharp dialogue, and clever twists. The story kept me hooked from start to finish!

Travis Devine life is under threat again. The girl on the train is trying to kill him, again. Devine's next assignment is a bodyguard. The FBI requested that DHS assign Devine to the task. He knows the key person involved. Danny Glass was an ex-Amy. He and Devine served together before. Now Danny is a criminal who does money laundering. He has a sister who has a girl named Betsy. She needs protection. The bad guys killed her parents. Now she is under FBI protection. They assigned a liar to protect her. Devine is doing the runaround trying to find out what's going on. Of course, more threats to his life. Devine and Betsy formed a relationship. Devine is not good around kids. But he is an honest guy and he tells the truth. Betsy is growing up too fast. She is alone in the world and she has to determine if she wants to live with her uncle Danny. The reality is, she has nothing and her uncle is rich. Even if he is a criminal. Betsy wants Devine to find out who killed her parents. In doing so, he finds a town that is corrupted. There are two friends of Betsy's parents who are helping too. We know something about the girl on the train. She is betrayed and she wants revenge. Yet, she has some integrity that is good. She decided not to kill Devine just yet because she wanted to get to the truth too. Really good story. It reflects somewhat the state of the USA right now. Too bad, in reality, the bad guys win. 5 stars read.

“To Die For” by David Baldacci is an action-packed 5-star read! Travis Devine, the 6:20 Man, is back, using the specialized skills he honed during his time as an Army Ranger and later on Wall Street to protect Betsy, a very special 12-year-old. Travis is unexpectedly pulled into the middle of a RICO investigation involving an old Army buddy. While trying to keep Betsy safe and juggle multiple investigations, he finds himself up against several different groups who are determined to keep him quiet. And we cannot forget about the girl on the train, who is eager to finish what she started. I am a big fan of this series and of David Baldacci in general, so it came as no surprise that I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The story is fast-paced, with threats coming from all directions and secretive plots that keep the tension high. The action never lets up. I cannot wait to see what kind of trouble the 6:20 Man finds himself in next! Thanks to Grand Central Publishing, David Baldacci, and NetGalley for providing me with the opportunity to read this ARC and share my honest review.

This David Baldacci suspense thriller is excellent and one of his best books to date. Part three of the 6:20 Man series begins where book two left off. After barely escaping from an assassin known only as the Girl on the Train, ex-Army Ranger Travis Devine is immediately sent on another mission. As a sometime employee of Homeland Security, Devine travels to Seattle, Washington to act as go-between for a 12-year-old girl (whose parents have just died) and her uncle. Uncle Danny, a man of dubious character, wants custody. Not everyone agrees. In addition, the girl, who believes her parents were murdered, wants answers. Just as Devine settles into this case, the Girl on the Train reappears wanting revenge. For what? Devine has no idea. And the action has just begun. Rocketing from one dangerous escapade to another, Devine faces death on numerous occasions when he attempts to find out how the girl's parents really died. Fast action and interesting characters abound as the bodies begin to pile up.

To Die For is an intense read. I enjoyed the little moments with Devine and the supporting cast, when they were struggling with the smaller, more mundane, if poignant difficulties in life. When the action ratcheted up later, it was slightly stressful; and I don't stress from reading books, typically. Politically, the book is charged, and while I find certain conditions of the world as mentioned in the story to be anathema, as does Baldacci, apparently, I am not sure we are as polarized a society as he does; maybe we are, however. I also find "fault" on both sides of the political aisle, overall; but I certainly don't favor the practices of the bad guys in the book. I felt the last one hundred pages or so were too intense, but were well written, and most readers might not share my stress levels in this regard. Props to Baldacci; he's penned the first book I've read of his that combines the crucial human aspects of works like A Calamity of Souls, with the action packed narrative of books like the Amos Decker', and here, Travis Devine series'. Well done.

Wow, did I ever get lucky with this book! It was the most excitement I've had in ages. This was a fun read, and it may be the last in this series of books. I'm not sure, but the reason I say so is becuase things may be finished with the storyline of Travis Devine and The Girl On The Train! I hope Mr. Baldacci will give us a book with Travis and Pru working together throughout the entire book. Or even make it a tiny little romance. The only issue I had with this book, which may only be an issue with the ARC, is that we didn't have 50 states in the 1920s. That happened in the '50s. What can I say? I'm a stickler for details! Other than that little thing-this was an excellent action-packed novel with a fabulous and intricate mystery, wonderful characters, and excellent dialogue. If this is not a trilogy but a series, you can better believe that I will be the first in line eagerly awaiting its release! *ARC was supplied by the publisher Grand Central Publishing, the author, and NetGalley.

To Die For is the third book in the 6:20 Man series from David Baldacci. “Travis is sent to Seattle to help the FBI in escorting a twelve-year-old orphan, Betsy Odom, to a meeting with her uncle. Her uncle that happens to be under federal investigation for RICO violations among other crimes. Travis wants to do his job and stay off the radar of the ‘girl on the train’ - the one that tried to kill him. As he gets to know Betsy, questions pop up about the death of her parents. Travis looks for answers and discovers a conspiracy bigger than he could imagine.” Baldacci gives us another great conspiracy thriller. There are clues but you’re never sure what’s really happening until the final third. Baldacci uses some of the fears and pressure points from current events. There’s a surprising ally for Travis - I hope we see them team up in future books. Travis shows a compassionate side with Betsy, putting himself in danger to make sure she’s safe and taken care of. An explosive ending and another great story from DB.

To Die For, the third book in the Travis Devine series, is hands down the best one so far. It’s action-packed and had me hooked from start to finish. What stood out most is how grounded it feels in today’s reality—especially in America. The cast of characters is diverse, the twists and turns are relentless, and just when things started to make sense for Travis around the 40% mark, I was still scrambling to piece it all together. The villains are compelling, and the conspiracy driving the story feels plausible, which makes it even more gripping. I really enjoyed seeing the agencies work together this time—a dynamic that felt fresh—but the book doesn’t shy away from calling out the inefficiency and competing interests of three-letter agencies. This added a layer of realism and depth to the plot. Baldacci masterfully weaves social and political undercurrents with high-stakes action, making To Die For a standout in the series. I’m already excited to see where Travis Devine’s journey goes next! 4,5 ⭐️ rounded up to 5

To Die For is full of action, suspense and danger as the body count rises. The 6:20 Man is at it again in this new thriller. No one can do a thriller justice like Baldacci! This book kept me glued to my seat and staying up late into the night to read until I couldn’t see the words anymore. There was so much action in this book that I can see it on the big screen as an award-winning, money-making movie. There are good guys and bad guys and some who are in between that kept me guessing which side they were on. That is how this author keeps readers coming back for more. Danger against the government is what the main protagonist is searching for and doesn’t give up even when his life is on the line again and again. Those who want him killed do their best while others who see him for the man he is turn to his side and assist him in his quest for justice. I highly recommend this book for those thriller-seekers who want a memorable read!

To Die for is another heart pounding book in the The 6:20 Man series. I dont know how this book got lower on my TBR pile and I am kicking myself for not reading it sooner. We meet Betsy Odom ( i like her already as I have the same last name) who is precocious 12 year old girl who's both parents are murdered. Her uncle is Danny Glass and he wants custody although is on facing a RICO trial. In comes Travis Devine still reeling from the Girl on the Train and he is to escort Betsy to meet Danny. Nothing is as it seems and the case blows up with danger , corruption, dead bodies around every corner. Travis will do anything to protecf Betsty and he is on his best game mode yet. To Die for is hard to put down, full of action and left me wanting the fourth sequel in the series.

There are way too many reasons I love this series to mention, but - almost lifelong Ohio resident that I am - I'll confirm that one is "Memory Man" Amos Decker's connection to the Buckeye State: Not only did he graduate from THE Ohio State University, but he was signed by my favorite NFL team, the Cleveland Browns. The latter was, alas, a career-ender - on his very first play of his very first professional game, he was injured so badly that he could play no more. That experience did, however, leave him with hyperthymesia, which causes him to remember every detail of every single day (whether he wants to or not) as well as synesthia abilities - associating colors with people and objects. Now an investigator, he and his FBI colleague Alex Jamison go where they're sent; in this instance, it's remote London, North Dakota, where the rich Bakken oil field has put the fracking industry in boom mode. They're here to investigate the apparent murder of a young woman named Irene Cramer, whose body was dumped in an open area and, inexplicably, had been autopsied. Neither Amos nor Alex has any idea why Irene is important to the FBI powers-that-be, but they do learn that by day she was a teacher at a religious community near the fracking operations (and near a secretive government facility that claims to be watching the skies for possible nuclear invasion). After the sun went down, it appears that Irene supplemented her income as a lady of the night. Nothing, though, is as it seems; Amos and Alex spend a goodly amount of time looking into all three operations - fracking, the government facility and the religious group - trying to determine who Irene really was, why she was murdered and whether any or all of the three operations are connected in any way. It doesn't take long for the investigation to turn deadly, though, and therein came an exciting surprise - the appearance of three other familiar characters from a different (and another favorite) series. From that point on, the pace picks up fast, making for edge-of-seat action the rest of the way. Yeah, I know it's highly unlikely that an author will kill off a major character in a popular series (this is the sixth Decker installment). That said, from my perspective it's a credit to any author who can make me worry that it really could happen - and I admit to holding my breath more than once in this one. Great job!

Another really good book by David Baldacci. The book says it's a Amos Decker story but there are 4 characters in the book that were in previous books and they're all good. This is a story about a secret Air Force Agency in a town in Nebraska where also a woman is killed. Amos is with the FBI and he and his partner are sent to investigate the murder which is strange because usually the local police are the ones involved in a local murder but Amos knows there is something else going on. There's also a religious cult nearby that may be involved and lots of fracking. Good story with lots of government agencies involved.

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Teaming up Decker with Robie for this installment was awesome! I love both series by Baldacci (actually they are my two favorites by him) so this was a quick and entertaining read. Hated having to put it down to sleep because the plot was so good! Great mystery! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

Walk the Wire is a perfect thriller. The novel had a lot of worthwhile moving pieces. I am normally able to predict the identity of the killer halfway through a thriller novel but Walk the Wire put all my predictions in the dustbin. The novel was compelling from start to finish.

Decker and his partner Alex Jamison are sent to the North Dakota fracking oil fields to investigate the murder of a young woman. With little clue as to why they have been brought into a local murder case, the two find themselves in a case with multiple layers and suspects. For fans of Baldacci, you’ll be happy to find that one of his other main characters teams up with Decker on this case. (I won’t ruin the surprise, but it’s a good match) This is one of my favorite Baldacci stories in a while. His writing and stories are always top-notch, but this one went over the top. Tons of suspense, action and a who-done-it that will have you turning pages until the last chapter.

FBI consultant and Detective Amos Decker is the main protagonist in this story. He has an uncanny memory which is the reason the FBI utilizes his talent. A young woman has been murdered in London, North Dakota. But the case is not so simple; as other individuals are being murdered. At first Decker suspects that it may be connected to either a religious sect or the Air Base near by. This story has all the in and outs of an excellent detective story.

I gave this a 5 because it contains my two favorite Baldacci characters, Amos Decker and Will Robie. Great story, really well crafted. It took less than two days to read, I just get so caught up in the intrigue and the action. Look forward to the ndxt book by Mr. Baldacci.

After a long time i met will robie and Jessica reel in some high octane action packed novel,along with Amos decker and Alex Jamison. Story was too suspenseful and one case leads to another case and the team of FBI and Blue man cracks it down in thier own style. No complaints from this story or the sequences, it was a smooth ride, i liked it.

Book Review Better Off Dead Andrew Child & Lee Child reviewed by Lou Jacobs readersremains.com | Goodreads Not to worry Reacher fans, your next guilty pleasure has arrived. The torch is being successfully passed from Lee Child to his younger brother, Andrew Child (aka Andrew Grant). The voice of our beloved iconic hero, Jack Reacher lives on, although somewhat more loquacious, his inimitable style of conflict resolution with action and violence in support of the challenged victim shines on. Although this is the 26th in the action thriller Reacher series, it can be enjoyed as a standalone. As always, the necessary backstory is seamlessly laid in. Reacher, in his typical nomadic style, is traveling by bus and hitchhiking toward the Pacific Ocean. Carrying a toothbrush in his pocket and only the clothes on his back, he endures thanks to the moral compass in his soul. As he approaches a backwater town near the Arizona-Mexico border, he comes upon the unbelievable: a jeep plowed into the only tree for miles, with a woman slumped over the steering wheel. All is not what it seems! We are immediately dumped into a scene out of a Bruce Lee movie. Reacher faces off against four thugs, all at least six-two and weighing more than two-hundred pounds. A detailed vivid fight sequence ramps up with Reacher ultimately beating them all to a pulp, with their resultant demoralizing bodily injury—but with the end result Reacher being shot in the chest by Michaela Fenton. Fenton is a seasoned veteran of the Gulf Wars and ex-FBI specialist, who is in search of her twin brother, Michael. She was the woman slumped over the steering wheel, and was faced with a seemingly impossible task of penetrating the criminal organization that her brother, was involved with. She had received a message from him … “M – Help!” Written on the back of a business card from the Red Roan (a cafe in this town) accompanied by a condom. Fenton did not understand the significance of the condom, but certainly understood the cry for help. Reacher recognized her seemingly impossible plight and offered his service; and together formulated an intricate plan to infiltrate the criminal enterprise of the shadowy boss, Waad Dendoncker, involved in smuggling drugs, weapons and probably in making and distribution of bombs—with an ominous payload and probable national security implication. Michael is himself a veteran of multiple tours in Afghanistan (his specialty involving bombs—mostly their safe disposal). Fenton was aware of her brother’s disillusionment and disgust of the government and was fearful that he was involved with making bombs for Dendoncker. Interesting was the fact that his business venture operated under the name of Pie In The Sky, Inc. And, just where is the destination of these bombs? Andrew Child, with some help by his brother, Lee , crafts a masterful and complex narrative that incrementally ratchets up tension, intrigue, and suspense with the expected Reacher action and violence that escalates into a barn-burning denouement. Featured are multiple well fleshed out sinister characters that propel the action into an addictive page-turner. I look forward to the eventual thriller penned alone by Andrew Child. Thanks to NetGalley and Random House publishing for providing an Uncorrected Proof in exchange for an honest review. For those younger fans of Reacher, unfamiliar with the television of the late 50’s and early 60’s I would suggest retrieving episodes of Richard Boone’s creation of “Paladin” for the series, “Have Gun-Will Travel” for an extended Reacher-like fix. ....published at MysteryandSuspense.com magazine ....

Lee Child's Jack Reacher series is about a retired Army intel officer who goes off the grid pretty much because he's tired of people. But as he vagabonds across the country, he can't let injustice go unanswered which becomes the core of each book in the series. If you love stories of a guy with a solid moral core who never backs away from doing the right thing, and is never afraid to push back against overwhelming power with a combination of brains and brawn, you will love this series. Here's a typical scene: “Get down. Do it now.” I didn’t move. “Were you dropped on your head when you were a baby? Was your boss? Because honestly, I’m worried. Virtually every creature on the planet has the ability to learn from experience. But not you, apparently. What happened last time you tried this? When you had three buddies to help out. Not just one.” Lee Child has a unique voice. It separates his writing from all other thrillers and is one of the reasons I love his books. Here’s an example: The light had been easy to find, just like he’d been told it would be. It was the only one in the compound that was still working, all the way at the far end, six feet shy of the jagged metal fence that separated the United States from Mexico. Exact measurements is how Jack Reacher's mind works. That could be boring but in Child's talented hands, even numbers are consumable. Then, there are the fight scenes. Child makes me believe Jack Reacher can actually face off against five thugs and win. I dare you to read a fight scene and think Reacher should have lost. And finally, there's the clock in Reacher's head that is always spot on about what time it is. Child uses it to build drama by ticking off the time as the action passes. This twenty-sixth book in the series is written by Lee and Andrew Child which made me immediately suspicious that I'd lose those important story pieces (mentioned above) that kept me coming back to this series. Usually, passing the pen to a family member doesn't work well. Tony Hillerman's niece now writes his acclaimed series--good not great. Tom Clancy’s estate keeps trying to find a writer who can duplicate Clancy's voice. I have yet to read a post-Clancy book that sounds like him. This Lee and Andrew Child book is close to the original voice but not quite as clever. Lee Child kept me guessing, always surprised me. Andrew does also, just not as much or as effectively. Overall, an excellent read, almost the perfect of Lee Child.

Better Off Dead (2021) By Lee Child and Andrew Child. Jack Reacher is back. I don’t know why I keep reading these stories. The plot is, generally speaking, the same. Reacher gets pulled into some mess the has nothing to do with him, usually there is a woman involved, and there is no real reason for him to stay except he likes a little spice in his day. I also get the feeling he truly looks forward to killing a bunch of people, or at the very least maiming them. He plays fair, giving the bad hombres a chance to walk away. But they never do. Reacher is massive but somehow a bigger guy will, in most cases, get involved in the fight. And why doesn’t some smaller guy just pull out his pistol, at a distance from Reacher, and blast away. I’m a big guy and I would not want to square off against Reacher, I’d rather put hot lead down the barrel and into him and dispose of the remains later. I suppose that wouldn’t make much of a story, but that is just how this book opens. While the fellow dying in the first chapter isn’t named, you know it has to be Reacher from the physical description alone. Intrigue flourishes at the start, while confirmation comes a bit later. You know Reacher can’t be killed in the initial chapters, so you have to read on and on. Using their trademark short, punchy sentence structure, short chapters and involved plot twists, the Childs have once again made me rush through their book and left me satisfied by the end.

Following the exploits of Jack Reacher is always fun. I just got through seeing the new Jack Reacher series on TV. Much easier to see the character that portrays Reacher in my mind now.

Last year I read the first collaborative effort from Lee and Andrew Child, two years ago I read the 24 previous Jack Reacher novels, and also the Jack Reacher short stories, novellas and crossovers. In fact, I had to make sure I read other books in between. So it was a long wait of almost a year for this volume to be released. When it came out I was very busy with work and some other books on the go. But once I started I devoured this book in less than 24 hours. I just could not put it down! It is one of my favourites! And how the story ties in some pieces of previous stories, just masterful. That is how I would describe this book a masterfully written suspense thriller! I read this the weekend after binge watching the new Amazon Prime Series, and I could just picture the action in a whole new way. But let us get back to this specific story. Reacher has a soft spot for fellow veterans, as we have seen before and as we see in this story. And in this case it is a female veteran, Michaela Fenton, who is trying to rescue her brother Michael, also a vet. But things go sideways right from the start. And Reacher as intrigued as he is a couple of times has thoughts about walking away. But that is now his way. When Reacher is hiking towards the coast, specifically the Pacific Ocean, he comes across a scene that is odd, and it is not what it appears to be. Just outside Los Gemelos, a tiny Arizona town near the border. Soon Reacher is vested in figuring out what is really going on, and to do that he will need to crack some heads. And the game is one. Once Reacher gathers some of the intel he knows he needs more, so he reaches out to Jefferson Wallwork of the FBI, who owes Reacher. And as Reacher and Wallwork both work the case they soon realize this is much bigger than either of them expected, and could have major national and international repercussions. And Reacher cannot leave a man behind, or in this case a women. In this story many things are not what they appear. But Reacher has a knack for finding the truth, and for finding people who do not want to be found. And in this case his Lizard mind keeps getting pinged and the question is can he catch what it is trying to warn him about before it is too late? Once Reacher discovers a large cache of ordinances, and starts to realize the scape of the work. He cannot back down. In this volume Reacher does not end up in a relationship. The story takes place over just a few days. We have no incidents of Reacher getting new clothes. Cleaning up, or pressing his clothes between the mattresses. But we do have some decent fights, a mystery to be solved, and some big risks taken. It is another great volume from the Child brothers. And will leave readers desperate for the next instalment ‘No Plan B’. After I read the last one Lee and Andrew wrote together I planned on starting to read some of Andres works published as Andrew Grant, I started the first as soon as I finished this one. A good book in an always entertaining series!

Wow, "Red Sky Mourning" is another winner for Jack Carr in the "Terminal List" series...James Reece seems finally settled down after the events of an earlier novel, that too involved AI, but the bad guys attack, and make it personal, as well as world-wide..."Red Sky Mourning" starts fast and picks up speed with the high intensity action which we have come to expect from the series...Like the other novels, Carr thinly disguises his characters to reflect the current political atmosphere and the geopolitical conflict with China with AI is on...Loved it!!!

Great book

Oh my. This book had me on my toes. I had to stop reading a few times to calm myself. It is amazing how disenfranchisement and greed can make people do diabolical things. And Alice? She takes the cake!! I appreciate the ending. Is it what I wanted? Not completely. Is it what was needed? Possibly.

Solid 5-star in my opinion! If you haven't been following along, I started reading the Terminal List series by Jack Carr in June of 2023 based on a recommendation from a coworker who is a rather large fan of the books. I've been hooked on them from the start and though it took me almost a year exactly, I got caught up right in time for the 7th book Red Sky Mourning to come out in June of 2024 here. I wasn't sure if I was going to be able to get to it this month with a rather full monthly TBR but due to also squeezing in a vacation which allowed me to get a lot of extra reading in, I was able to enjoy this one only a few days after release. The pacing was exactly what I come to expect from this series. I don't know how I'd feel if that changed with book seven in a series. This is still fast paced intense action. There are amazing fight scenes which I'll get to shortly, though even when there isn't action going on like that even the dialogue and story just seem to have me sitting on the edge of my seating wondering what is going to happen next. If I had to make a film comparison to this book and series, I'd have to go with the Jason Bourne series. They give me that similar edge of my seat feeling when watching them. Even though I do own physical copies of these books, I continue to opt for the audiobook versions narrated by Ray Porter who just does an excellent job in bringing these fantastic stories to life. If you have been enjoying this series with visual reads and don't mind or enjoy audiobooks, you've got to give Ray's performance a try. The world building continues to surprise me. I've always been drawn to more science fiction and fantasy worlds to give me that feeling of escapism. I never really thought I'd enjoy fictional reads based in the real world. This is even more so with The Terminal List series as Jack Carr continues to weave in current events into his stories. These stories always seem to stretch across the globe in each book and this one is no different. I also love the fact that the author continues to pull the current back a bit and let us know there are some parts of the story based on real life events, some that are twisted a bit to make them their own and others just a bit of pure speculation for enjoyment purposes of the story. I want to touch on the level of detail that Jack Carr writes in this book and really in the series. I know this can actually be a polarizing subject at times. I had this discussion with my friend whom was also reading Red Sky Mourning upon release and I talked about a scene that I just loved. Carr gets very detailed in explaining what goes through Reece's mind thinking step by step what he is doing and then performing it. It makes me feel like I am right there. It also gives me the vibes of the scene entering slow motion or bullet-time from video games. This just works very well for me in this series. I can see if not being for everyone though. The character development was great in Red Sky Mourning. We see some of our biggest growth moments for James Reece to date in this one. I can't help to also love so many of the supporting characters in this book and series as well. The Hastings family is amazing! Ox might have become one of my favorite characters in this book. And the ending was spot on! I won't share any spoiler speculation here but I'm happy the way this book ended for sure. As I begin to wrap this review up, I want to say that the timing for this one couldn't have been better for me. As I mentioned I wasn't sure if I'd get this one in by the end of the month or not. I actually started it on the last day of my vacation. A complete coincidence was, we woke up early to get our last hike and visit to Presque Isle State Park and when we arrived, there was actually a red sun rising over Lake Erie. I thought I'd share a picture of the view with my trail buddy and side-kick Indy. I started up the audiobook for this hike as well as the drive home as well and Jack Carr had me hooked once again. I really only had one small bit of confusion as this book wrapped up which I ended up discussing with a friend who was also reading it at the same time. Once he finished he reminded me of something that happened in the previous book which then made that entire chapter make much more sense. I had completely forgotten about that moment. It's always good to have friends reading books that can share thoughts or shed light on things like this. All in all I am still new to Jack Carr spending just the last year getting through this series and I don't know what the future holds. I'd love to see more books released in this series but if not, I have enjoyed this ride! I also know the author has his first non-fiction writing releasing later this year and since I do enjoy military history and try to sprinkle those reads in each year, I will keep my eyes out for this. If you've already started your journey through The Terminal List series, keep going with this one, you will not be disappointed. If you haven't checked the series out but enjoy Thrillers with a heavy dose of action, espionage and military aspects, you deserve to give this a chance.

Jack Carr is the absolute master of this genre. Wow!!!!!! Fantastic as always! 10⭐️

Every book in the series I’ve given five Stars, because of the way the books are written with extreme detail and articulation and explanation of the plot. James Reece is a complicated character, and that’s what readers want to read about. I was thinking that going into this book, and just thinking how is this hero going to find some peace? This book provides IN MY OPINION a logical way to find the character some peace. Not conclusive, and it’s an open ended. What I enjoy most of this series is Jack Carr’s ability to have current global dynamics and geopolitics, fast paced plot that draws you in, and a simple sentence “thesis” to each book. You know what the book will be about with military proficiency and bloody violence. Red Sky Mourning or the “007” book is great and definitely has ties to James Bond with comparisons of Bond and James Reece. The villain is meticulous and calculating, and Jack Carr’s writing shows his frustrations with politicians and senior leaders. There were similarities with Terminal List, and I enjoyed them. PERSONAL RANKING OF JACK CARR’S TERMINAL LIST 1. Terminal List 2. Savage Son 3. The Devil’s Hand 4. Red Sky Mourning 5. True Believer 6. In The Blood 7. Only The Dead

Jack Carr did it again for the 7th time with the James Reece series. Jack is my favorite author because his attention to detail with weapons, places, food, and scenes in books makes you really feel like you’re there. Jack also does a phenomenal job of describing the history for weapons, places, vehicles, and many other things in his books. Throughout the James Reece series, Jack has made it to where you see Reece grow as a character due to his struggles, failures, and accomplishments like you’re right by his side and Red Sky Mourning did not disappoint. This book puts a spotlight on how technology is a double-edged sword and it made the read that much better. Fantastic book!

Jack Carr is a phenomenal thriller author who constantly pushes the boundaries of what is fiction and non-fiction. He taps in so well what is happening in the real world with smatterings of potential technological weapons coming on the horizon. He’s done such a great job of interconnecting all these books and that goes for this one so well. Hearing him on a podcast talk about how he loves writing these books makes me hope this series goes on for many more years to come!

Fast action, great fun.

When I started this series, I never thought I'd see James Reece eventually become a James Bond-esque character. Sure, the man doesn't enjoy being in a suit, but I still very much enjoyed those chapters of the book. Knowing there was going to be a bunch of Bond easter eggs throughout, I wasn't sure if they would work, but you know what, they only went and did. From Navy Seal, to Super Spy, it all just kind of works. Then you add the not-too-distant future of Ai as Alice returns, and that all goes to make Red Sky Mourning a winner. It's is obvious Jack Carr has done a shit ton of research, that or he has some friends in high places. Probably a mix of the two. Everything you'd want from a James Reece adventure/thrilling mission is here - his reluctance to get involved, thrilling action, horrible torture sequences and I learn a lot along the way. And a bunch of slight jabs at the idiots of today, in that very specific Carr manner. At this point, it is almost impossible to guess where the series might go next - what with James Reece having a bounty of options out there for him. And as these books surely continue, I can see this fictional Seal taking on the next big global threat, just a few years before it arises in the mainstream news. I'm finally caught up, and can't wait for book 8.

This one started incredibly slow for me. I am a big Carr fan, and have read all the TL books within the last six months. In the first 75% of the book it felt phoned in. Seemed like Carr had turned the corner into writing books to keep a character alive and cranking out title after title without as much effort as was put in in the early volumes when you’re still trying to make a name for yourself. It didn’t end that way but that’s just how it started. Other reviewers noted Carr’s lack of subtlety in his worldview propositions. That is a valid complaint. I agree with almost all of Carr’s positions politically and otherwise, but he was trying too hard in this one to let us know how he felt about things. I also found comical and somewhat distracting the fact that Carr, rather explicitly, parodies real life politicians (or at least their caricatures) here with characters clearly playing off Gavin Newsom and Kamala Harris. Pacing was also a problem here, as it was in the first book. Carr spends a lot of time with laborious exposition of niche topics that’s simply not necessary to the progression of the story. All that being said, I’m willing to put all of that aside because the last 20% of this book is some of the best thriller writing I’ve ever read. A fitting and satisfying ending to this chapter for Carr’s writing career.

This book is a solid thriller, published so recently that it can incorporate references to the Ukraine War and the Hamas attacks on Israel. The plot winds its way from the United States to China to the Philippines, Indonesia, and even to Austria and Malta. For weaponry enthusiasts, there are plenty of technical details, and the story offers some dark warnings about dangers of Artificial Intelligence in the competition between China and the United States. The author's wry observations on recent American politics are also entertaining. Although some readers may want to skim through the rather graphic descriptions of torture in Chapter 39, the rest of the book is enjoyable and offers a series of plot twists that make it a page-turner. The novel is enhanced by more than 25 pages of technical glossary, which is very helpful for readers who have limited background in weapons and military intelligence. On the whole, this seventh novel in the James Reece Terminal List series is a solid success.

This book was amazing! Such a good addition to the Terminal List series. If you aren’t familiar with the Terminal List you should definitely check it out, but be prepared for violence. This book was intriguing because the use of electronic devices and AI were prevalent. It made for some interesting situations and opportunities to save lives. The ending was great and I’m glad things were resolved for the characters. Jack Carr really pulled out all the stops for this book and made me wonder how he researches some of the things he writes.

James Reese is a bad ass. Though Mitch Rapp is probably a bigger badass, lol Jack Carr is one of my favorite writers. I really hope that he finally lets Reese find peace. I really loved the first part of True Believer. I loved how at peace Reese was in Africa. I almost wished he would have stayed in Africa and not went with Freddie. But I'm not the Author lol.

Jack Carr gets it done again. This book will be accused of being science fiction by some but with todays technologies (known and unknown), I agree with Jack when he says it’s not. I will say you want to read this book on a full stomach. The authors ability to describe food in such delicious detail will make you hungry! Cheers Mr. Carr. Well done on the 007th book!

I saw a lot of people saying no more James Reece and too political. I feel like I read a different book. Maybe I wasn’t paying attention or it went right over my head. I do hope he gets paid for all the merch he mentions.

I grew up in the 80’s when the action movie reigned supreme! Jack Carr’s James Reece takes me back. This series is awesome and Red Sky Morning did not disappoint. The nods to Ian Flemming’s James Bond are great Easter egg moments. Read this book if you need a little action in your life.

** spoiler alert ** Well now what am I supposed to do? Wait for the next one?? Glad to see Alice used a lot more in this book and happy to see a seemingly happy ending to the entire series/please write another one!

** spoiler alert ** Love Love Love! Hope this is not the end!

Fabulous! James Reece is the modern day John Galt. Love this series. 📖

Like all the other useless reviews I saw, I haven't read this book. Unlike the others I saw, I'm not going to review something I haven't read. No one cares if you're excited to read it or have prejudged it. This is about reviewing a book on the merits of the book. Well, I've now read the book and thoroughly enjoyed it! I'm a fan of Louise Penny and, although it is unlike her other books, it was still a great read.

PLEASE READ THIS BOOK! UPDATE: On February 21, 2024, I invited some wonderful, dynamic women friends to my home to discuss this book. I was surrounded by brilliant, accomplished conversationalists. The discussion was engaging, captivating, serious and thoughtful. The perfect book to discuss at this time. Why? Well…let us consider the following… Is this political action thriller really political action fact? Is there an undertone of something we should be paying attention to that could be coming? Is our democracy at risk because of what the previous administration put into play? What are the current extremist elected and appointed officials within our government (appointed by the previous president) planning that will upend our government as we know it? And what of the previous presidents need for reelection and the powerplays he made prior to his term ending? Yes, I am reading a fiction book – but, I feel like I am reading the pages of something much richer than fiction, because it feels too real to what is happening now – what has been happening before us. We cannot ignore it. And...Clinton’s rich background as a once First Lady, US Senator and Secretary of State gives her insights into the White House. Certainly her experience, our experience of the last administration, and what has since occurred, is still occurring, cannot be ignored. This book has me turning pages quicker than I can read them…I want to know what is going on – I want to hope for a good outcome. I want the bad guys to be beaten. I want our government to overcome all the hate and racism and misinformation spreading. I want civility back. I want the world to get along. I want neighbors to like one another again. And I don’t want terrorism across the borders to be terrorism within. Because it sure feels like it more and more. Besides, how could a patriot define themselves as such when their acts of violence and hatred tell a different story? This book makes readers think and want to protect our democracy, and look more closely at all those rights we have and what we are losing each and every day. Even a letter to the editor in one of our local papers made note of the following which can’t be ignored… “Numerous state houses across the country that are passing laws to limit and control access to voting ensuring that the politicians choose their voters rather than the voters choosing their politicians. And… state houses limiting woman’s right to access to reproductive health care and personal choice. And… laws making it easier to roam the streets with automatic weapons and taking the lives of unarmed civilians as well as laws limiting rights protected under the First Amendment. And local government gerrymandering boundaries so that they can cheat their way to a majority that isn’t theirs to have.” We are being assaulted from every angle here – and this book makes you wonder – should we be paying better attention? This is state of terror. And it is telling us to look within. And reading the last two lines of the authors acknowledgements, well…that in itself, is message enough. I don’t need to tell you the plot. I just need to tell you to read this book. And then…please, please, please, pay attention.

I look forward to reading it because the inside knowledge Hillary Clinton offers. I am rating it five stars to try to counterbalance the preemptive one-star reviews by people who hate HRC.

I actually read the Hillary Rodham Clinton Louise Penny book. I think if people like Louise Penny books and don’t hate Hillary Clinton they’re going to like this book. If they don’t like Hillary Clinton they’re not going like this book. The main character is a secretary of state who definitely resembles her. The book storyline is more of a Democratic storyline than a Republican storyline including about the past president in the book. I did like it better than the James Patterson/Bill Clinton first book. I liked that book but not enough to read the second one. But I also have tended to not read James Patterson after the first few because I think they’re kind of formulaic. It has lots of intrigue and jet-setting to foreign lands. We get to go back to one of our favorite Quebec villages. If they write another one I’ll definitely read it. I enjoyed this book and wanted to find out what happened next when I was reading it. I also really liked that they named some of the characters after people who were important in their lives who have passed away. The authors notes talked about this.

One of the best political thrillers I’ve ever read. Exhilarating, exciting and soooooo tense.

I don’t typically write reviews but here we are. I’ve been looking forward to reviewing this book just to counter the ridiculous people who saw HRC’s name and had a conniption. I want to say this is objectively good because I really think it may have been but I can’t deny my partiality. Louise Penny, who was already one of my favorites, wrote a badass female character who I adored AND gave me cameos/mentions of the characters and world I already loved. Seriously though, Ellen is smart and strategic with real emotion but still effectively manages the narcissistic men around her. I really liked this character. Then there’s Betsy. We all need a friend like Betsy. As always, my one complaint about Louise (yes, we’re on a first name basis. I’ve read 18 of her books) is the way she describes bodies. She’s incredibly smart in most of her writing so I still can’t understand why she can’t seem to avoid fat jokes. In this book it was about a white dude so it isn’t only directed at her black female character (Myrna). I don’t understand why the fatphobia is consistently present in her writing though. It’s base and I wish she’d be above it. That being said, I still really liked this book. The commentary on our current political climate was accurate and Hillary undeniably left her mark. The way they described how misinformation and social media have lead to the radicalization of Americans who fear change and loss of privilege was too real. And here are some other random thoughts: I will ship Anahita and Gil. No one will change my mind. I laughed out loud at the Russian president shirtless on horseback. I really want to know if the description of the withdrawal from Afghanistan was written before or after it happened in real life. The shade. Oh, the shade - the incompetence of the “previous administration,” the atmosphere left behind him, Russian assets, the tackiness of his home, and the list goes on. If Armand invited me to move to Three Pines then I would drop everything and go today. #sorrynotsorry Will there be more? Is this the start of a new series? God, I sure as hell hope so. Maybe this was objectively good after all. Did I cheer when Ruth was mentioned? You bet. Fuck fuck fuck

Although I don't read political thrillers, I started this out of curiosity thanks to a bang-up review by NPR's Maureen Corrigan. She also is not usually a fan of the genre, but gave this one high marks for its depiction of a "feminist fantasy" entertainment that might be subtitled "Sisterhood of the Traveling Pantsuits."

State of Terror, by Hillary Rodham Clinton and Louise Penny, is a work of fiction based on real life. An action-packed political thriller, full of twists and turns, that hit's pretty close to home in today's political climate. I found the many references to the previous administration to be hilarious. Clinton and Penny are a remarkable team and I hope we get to read more from them.

5 Stars. I really enjoyed it. I had expected it to show a leak or two. For both authors, it's her first thriller. Clinton has written several books, a fine writer, but not fiction and Penny writes first-rate crime mysteries about rural Quebec, but they're not thrillers. I was wrong. State of Terror is jam packed with excitement. My first worry had been that it wouldn't be as tight as a great thriller should be. Wrong. Just a few pages in we encounter true fear, me included! Ellen Adams has just been sworn in as the new U.S. Secretary of State; surprisingly, President-Elect Douglas Williams, although he despises her, appointed Ellen to the job. A cryptic message comes in which, after decoding, means that three bombs are on transit buses in Europe and will soon explode. That's on page 15! It's not long before we learn that one of the buses has the Secretary's son Gil on board. My second worry had been that, because Hillary Clinton had been Secretary of State herself, we'd get into the weeds too much. Wrong again. There's just enough to understand the latest urgency. And Penny's Inspector Gamache makes a guest appearance! A worthy 5 Stars. (May2025/No2025)

I pre-ordered a hardcover but I wanted to continue reading while I was running on the treadmill and cooking. So I bought an audiobook, too. It was really a well written political thriller. Much superior than Bill and James Patterson thrillers. Such a great page-turner! As a novice Secretary of State, the heroine Ellen has to deal with many twisted foreign head of states. She also can't trust anyone in the administration. Hillary and Louise Penny don't use real names, but you can guess who is who. It was so much fun to imagine what Hillary experienced as Secretary of State. I felt like a fly on the wall. I also love the strong friendship between Ellen and Betsy. A cameo appearance of Chief Inspector Armand Gamache was also fun. My review on Newsweek Japan: https://www.newsweekjapan.jp/watanabe...

Loved everything about this. Full RTC.

This deftly plotted, briskly paced, and neatly written political thriller isn't my usual cup of tea, but I found it fun and entertaining. Lots of twists and turns heighten the suspense. I liked the literary references sprinkled in, too. It's a long book that flies by while you're reading it. Louise Penny's writing shines through.

The book was great fun. Aside from the exciting plot, which is entirely possible given the political climate of today, the reader has fun trying to identify which characters in the book are based on real people. An alternate title of the book could be Hilary’s Revenge.

Louise Penny and Hillary Clinton make a good team. This book was well written and kept my interest, throughout. I hope there will be more books from this team!

The first few chapters felt a bit awkward but that's my only criticism. An absolutely terrifying political thriller with the loving touches of one of my favorite authors, Louise Penny. I was completely absorbed in the story. I just hope none of the shit in this book ever happens. There are some very realistic portraits within these pages. Is it plausible? Why do you think i said it was terrifying? A cautionary tale of where the divisions in our country could be leading us. Great job Hillary! Write another one please!!! You are welcome to come on our podcast and promote it. I'm totally going to review this one on the show!

Page turner Louise Penny is a favorite author but I had no idea what to expect with this collaboration. It kept me guessing and the Gamache references, often subtle, made me smile. Read it in just a few hours and wanted more.

✅REREAD (MAY 2024) I had such an amazing time with this book. If anything, I loved it even more than the first time. The foreshadowing was worth enjoying. The dragons? Great as ever. The side characters? Fun as ever. The romance? Swoon worthy as ever. I found the communication to be better read this time comparatively. The ending? Gut wrenching as ever. ~•~•~ ✅ORIGINAL REVIEW (Nov 2023) Before I start with the review, please note- I sympathize and support people who have been impacted by the war. Genocide isn't okay. War isn't okay. But at the same time, am not gonna be discussing these issues on a bookish website. This is not the place for me to share my personal beliefs and what is being done behind the scenes. I do NOT owe anyone any explanations here. I can choose how to go about on my account and my reviews and you can choose not to read it. I will only be discussing the actual book on my reviews and won't be engaging in any debates or harassment. Please try to refrain from commenting if you are looking to fight, cause I will delete those comments and block. I have had enough and I wish you all love and peace. This is not the way to go about things, let's be rational and restore GR to a loving community. I just want to read in peace. LET'S START WITH THE REVIEW "Trust me yet?" "With my life." 🫠🫠 After having some time to recollect my thoughts, I do believe that in no way this was a perfect book. Yet it was so enjoyable and exciting. I loved it in all its imperfections. Xaden and Violet have my heart and the series seems to be getting darker and more powerful. But oh how I ate it all up 🤭 Was it better than Fourth Wing? The plot certainly was better but I do think people will find its execution a bit messy in general. Is it binge worthy? Absolutely, you just need time. So A LOT happens in this one, in fact way more than the first book. This book is so action packed and relationship focused, I didn't think I could love this series more but I really do. The best part about this was Tairn and Andarna. No one can tell me otherwise. I came in to love Xaden and Violet but the dragons... AHHHH 😩😩❤ The book picks up immediately after the events of Fourth Wing and with no time wasted we jump into the story. I liked the addition of new characters and the way they all had their own personalities yet never overpowering. Felix and his sarcastic arse was top notch. I liked how he kept things real. I do believe the transition of Solane's issues with Violet could have been smoothened a bit considering how strong she came to be. I absolutely LOATHED Varrish. He's the equivalent of Umbridge I swear. Hated, hated, hated him. Those who have read Fourth Wing know, am not mentioning one of the characters, but I'll just say- his dynamic with Violet was chef's kiss 🤌 "I want you exactly how you are, emotions and all. I want the woman I fell for..." 🩶I loved Xaden and Violet. The groveling and reassurance THROUGHOUT the book was everything!! So we all know how things were left in Fourth Wing, and I expected Xaden to grovel his way for a few pages but our girl Violet made him grovel the whole time and I LOVED it. He was patient with her, he took his time with her. He made mistakes in this one too but he owned up to it and gave her answers. ❤️‍🔥She had 100 questions? He answered them all. She asked the same question a million times? He answered it each and every damn time. Someone tried to make her jealous? He confidently claimed and assured her every time. Yeah, exactly! That's the kind of man he is 🤭😌 ⚡I adored Violet in this. Let's be honest, there will be a lot of people who will find her annoying and insecure in this one. I personally did not. To me it made sense. Everyone lied to her throughout her whole life. Almost every new person wants to kill her. She lost someone very close to her. Her issues with Cat although wasn't really necessary but made sense. It gave Xaden and Violet the opportunity to become confident in each other and gave the opportunity to trust each other again. I loved Violet was patient and open towards Xaden, well eventually 🤭 🐉Now let's get to my babies- Tairn and Andarna. Y'all if you adored them in the last book? You will LOVE them in this. Tairn was his sarcastic self, caring self and always giving his Silver One wisdom. I absolutely LOVED Andarna. Her adolescent self was so snarky, it was adorable. I wanted to protect them both, and especially my baby Andarna. Her reveals (Yes, multiple reveals 👀) had me gasping. I can't wait to see what else is in store for them. 🔥The side characters- Ridoc, Sawyer, Imogen and Rhi were such good friends. The way they supported Violet through thick and thin. They had each other's backs. Sawyer and Jesina? They'll be cute together if it happens 🤭 These four kept me laughing. They made the two main characters real and brought life to the book. B and Mira 🫡 🤡 Dain and Cat- Bro now idk what to think about them 😭😩 It feels weird. No they're not a couple or anything, just two idiotic characters.... "I would have done the same thing you did because I'm just as reckless for you as you are for me." The romance. The spice. The action. The plot twists. The drama. The reveals. The writing. PERFECT 🤭🤭 I believe the torture scenes and the training bits were the best written parts as it showed how deep all of their bond was. But that one scene (can't spoil) had me bawling my eyes out, so heart touching and I just wanted to hold and hug him 😭😭😭❤ Those who have read it will know 😭 The reveals at the end tho OH MY GOSHHHH. Yes it's true I got spoiled for the ending but I didn't let it get to me. I was bummed but I ate it up because of how well Rebecca Yarros wrote it. The action was so good!! I couldn't put the book down at all. The cliffhanger tho 😭😭😭😭 DAMN BRUTAL. DAMN. BRUTAL. Am gonna be obsessed with the next one too 😩😩 Can't wait for it. Be kind on the review. Or just move on, I won't tolerate any harassment on my reviews against my friends or me. ~•~•~ LET'S GOOOOO

Reread: 6 stars the first time around 100 excruciatingly painful stars the second time around. Guys my heart is absolutely broken, I cannot stop crying. The way this book and these characters have seeped in to every part of my life…. All I feel is dread and anxiety and pain. Knowing the ending made this read a million times more painful. But this book is absolutely perfect I will accept zero criticism. Final thoughts as I wipe the tears off my phone: - Xaden is the only fictional man to exist. Number 1 book boyfriend forever and always. - xadens love confession is the best love confession I have ever and will ever read. - xaden and violet are soul mates and their love makes me actually physically and mentally ill. They are endgame but I know they are going to go through hell and back a million times over to get there. - XADENNNNN MY SHAYLAAAAA WHYYYYYYYYYY why why why can’t my baby catch a break????!!!!!! - onyx storm is going to ruin us in ways we can’t even imagine. I feel like this is absolutely going to be the book where xaden leaves Violet in the end to protect her and like guys…. I can’t take it. I can’t. I’m terrified. This cliffhanger is gonna put me in my grave. I probably will die before book 4 comes out. - I can’t read anything else. Like I literally can’t do it. - books ruin my life. ———————————————————————- I have no words. This was PHENOMENAL, far exceeded my expectations and absolutely did not fall victim to second book syndrome in any way shape or form. I went absolutely FERAL gobbling up every single word on every page. Rebecca you are a GENIUS!! Honestly I was scared that the ending was going to ruin me based on the reactions I saw on social media… but in all honesty I’m so happy with where the book ended! Hot take… but I definitely saw the foreshadowing throughout both books leading to this ending for either Xaden or Violet. I think this is a phenomenal progression of the story line and cannot wait to see where book 3 takes us!! Xaden and violets relationship: I know some people are annoyed with their back and forth but I absolutely loved what Rebecca did with their relationship in this book. How Violet acted was REAL, she’s freaking 21 years old navigating her first real relationship and learning how to trust someone after the ultimate betrayal! I would have been surprised if their relationship wasn’t so wishy washy in the first half of the book! I adored seeing Xaden let his guard down and prove to Violet that his love will not falter and he will stand by her every step of the way. Them learning how to communicate and finally trust each other in the end was so rewarding and melted my heart. The spice…. Also PERFECTION Personally I love Violet so much and watching her come into her power and learn how to trust herself tugged at my heartstrings. She stays true to the fact that she will do anything for the people she loves despite not being the strongest in the bunch, her mental toughness was beyond empowering. The world building and plot development had me SO EXCITED! I feel like we learned so much while still having just the right amount of questions that have yet to be answered. This magic system is phenomenal and continues to surprise me. This book has just the right amount of plot, romance, and world building that is rare to find from a fantasy romance! The side characters and little found family that was created also had me feral, definitely one of my favorite tropes. Ahhhhh this was incredible I cannot wait for book 3!!!!!

I…think I liked this more than fourth wing? I’m scared something’s wrong with me but I really don’t know why people have so many negative things to say about this book. It was action packed and Xaden was as gorgeous as ever. Even though it was spoiled for me I actually liked the ending and am excited for that plot line to pick right back up in the next book. I will say a qualm I have is that things are described in a way more complicated way than they need to be (ex. the runes/wards and also I cannot for the life of me orient myself in the battle scenes). And yes violet was annoying in the beginning but we all have our days… 4.5 stars

reread review : truly LOL revisiting my most-viral Goodreads review that still gets me hate to this day - it was a JOKE, Y’ALL!!😂 but also!!! upon my second read this did dip to 4.5⭐️s but I simply refuse to go any lower because I still loved it!!! it just was a tad slow + repetitive! however *~Violet + Xaden 5ever~* ——————————————————————————— I got married in July but these books are still the best things that happened to me all year.

nobody talk to me, i‘m having a mental breakdown

what the fuck am i supposed to do now?

10000/5 starts, HOLLY. FUCKING. SHIT. I’m literally unwell after reading this…. Update: read it for the second time, I still think the same thing.

"My house. My chair. My woman." Spice: 🌶️🌶️ ⚠️Trigger Warning: Torture I don't know why I thought I would survive this. I am a pathetic, weeping heap on the floor and nothing can get me back up again. I wish I could say that book 3 would help, but it will probably push me over the edge instead. That ending, in particular, is like a hard punch in the face. Yet, contrary to popular opinion, I loved the ending as much as I loved the rest of the book. I think it promises an even better story in the next book. Not to mention, there are some specific scenes that I've found so satisfying, that they make me grin even through my tears. Besides, those plot twists are amazing! My jaw is permanently on the floor. Moreover, I had no doubts that Violet would be her usual awesome, genius self. The shit she has to deal with in this book is unbelievable. The kind of shit that not everyone would be able to handle or survive. She may have a lot on her plate that makes her insecure about herself. Nonetheless, she is determined to do the best she can and protect her loved ones in the process. It may not be anything new character-wise, most female main characters have these attributes, but this is what I love about my characters. She should work on her lying, though. 😂 Furthermore, nothing Xaden does could ever make me mad. He is the perfect man in every way and I will fight anyone who thinks otherwise. Sure, he lied to Violet and he still keeps things from her, but it's out of necessity and he APOLOGIZED. Besides, he has to deal with his own bad shit, and his responsibilities are endless on top of dealing with his very pissed-off girlfriend. I love a guy who looks like a coldhearted villain but is actually just a big softy who murders sometimes. Besides, it's a bummer that he isn't as present in the beginning, even though it's a significant part of the plot and should make me feel like shit. Additionally, I adore Violet and Xaden's relationship even more so than before. In the first book, they have to get over the prejudices and past between them. However, in this one, they have to figure out how to be together. Love isn't enough and it shouldn't be. It is only the motivation they need to make things work. They may be in love but that doesn't mean they trust each other as much as they should be. Saying "I love you" doesn't solve everything. They need communication as well. I appreciated this aspect of their relationship. Nevertheless, I wasn't thrilled about the spiteful ex trope (is it even called that?) that appeared suddenly, even though it's resolved pretty nicely and it has little effect on Violet and Xaden's relationship. Lastly, everyone on Vi's squad is precious. They are adorable people, true friends, and I would lay my life down for every single one of them. Sawyer and Ridoc, in particular, are my favorites. They are the perfect blend of goofy and badass and that alone is enough to make me love them above all others. Not to mention, Tairn and Andarna are an absolute treat. Tairn is the grumpy dad who's sick of everyone's bullshit, especially Vi and Xaden's arguing. Whereas, Andarna is the scary teenager who just started puberty, picks a fight with everyone, and has just discovered sass. As for Sgaeyl, she's giving couldn't-bother-anymore mom vibes. They are one of my favorite, delightfully dysfunctional families. On another note, I can't believe there is actually a character that I hate more than Dain. The level of hatred I feel for this person is concerning. In fact, they are so horrible, they make Dain look like an innocent baby.

okay yeah that ending better be a sick joke

five stars and if you disagree fuck you

This. Was. So. Good. I love how Yarros wraps up the original conflict and then introduces a new one, so we’re never left with a cliffhanger, just a clue of what’s to come. Definitely going to continue the series.

Have you ever loved a book so much while reading it that you didn’t want to finish it because you knew you wouldn’t know what to do with your life afterward? Well, that’s me right now with this book 🤍 I’m still in my dragon era and I refuse to get over it🐉🖤

the audiobook re-read in anticipation for onyx storm …. immaculate

Of course this is 5 ⭐️ but I feel so physically nauseous right now from the ups & downs and emotions in this book that I can’t even process a full review right now. I am a mess Full RTC *editing on 12/21 - wow, I never came back and did a full reviews & honestly I still don’t think I can. This book freaking broke me. BROKE ME. I absolutely love this series so much and will be rereading again before book 3, hands down!

Second Re-read Review Fourth Wing was the first romantasy book I read, and I could never imagine how indelible an impact it would leave. It felt exactly like the threshing. I'm bonded for life. Both Fourth Wing & Iron Flame hit me like a meteoroid collision, setting my tears and emotions ablaze. This was my third time reading this series, and it's still a 5 star book. I'm too emotionally attached not to. I love Andarna and Tairn too much, and I'd rather die than choose either if the time comes. Words that will fucking break my heart over and over again ❤️‍🩹❤️‍🩹 "It’s been my honor." "I chose you not as my next, but as my last, and should you fall, then I will follow." "Less than a minute. That's how long it took for you to fall out of love with me." _____________________________________________________________ After re-reading Iron Flame, I finally understood why this series had already become a phenomenon. I devoured every page slowly for details and clues, and dreaded the moment it ended. I love all the characters so much. My heart went out to Violet’s mother (much to my surprise). I love Mira’s protectiveness towards Violet. I adore the Iron Squad (Rhi, Sawyer and Ridoc) and praying fervently that they will survive till the end. Even Dain & Cat sort of redeemed themselves (Okay I'm a softie I know). The final battle in this book was so tense and nerve-racking that I felt as if I was transported there. Violet was badass and tough. And after Varrish’s cruel interrogation, she won me over completely. Don’t even get me started on Tairn & Andarna. If anything happens to them in the next book, I WILL be wrecked. And of course, not forgetting Xaden Riorson. Our badass, sexy, unbelievably devoted, confident, and fearless wingleader. How can I forget these scenes: Xaden who rescued Violet from that chamber and killed those who stood in his way, Xaden who worshipped the woman he loves on that throne, Xaden who bared his heart and secrets over and over again, Xaden who sacrificed himself to save Violet from the general, the man who would watch the world burn to save the woman he loves instead.

I can't help it. Every time a new Eve Dallas book comes out my grabby hands come out. This story was super fast-paced. I think it all took place within 48 hours, and it didn't do things I expected it to do at all. (view spoiler) Sometimes expected is better. This starts with a killing in the park and the person responsible is easily found. Piece of cake. But, he had hired a professional who has evaded authorities for like 20 years. The book becomes a giant man-hunt with everyone involved in bringing the hired killer down. And, to make things more interesting, the guy is coming after Roarke next and they all know it. Odd way of trying to kill someone, but I'll allow it. There is a frantic pace of information coming together from all over as they try to get this guy before he gets them. The fun part of things is that everyone that we have come to know and love on the police force gets involved. They have a lot of back-up. And a hella good a capella group I hear, although I doubt they'll need their services. I had expected there to be some sort of new development in the world from reviews I had read, but there really wasn't. The relationship between Roarke and Eve is super solid now and I liked that Roarke wasn't as neutered as he seemed in the last book or so. He got a step-up from being Eve's errand boy. Still, I will be happy when something new happens on the personal front. I'm just not holding my breath. In the meantime, these are great police procedurals set in the future world. It will be all of our lucky days when we get kangaroo pimps. There is no way that isn't a good idea. The future is so cool

I know: I'm addicted to this series! LOL Here the crime solving was not as complicated as in the other books, as Eve knows since the beginning who did it! ;) But the writing is so good and easy the I enjoyed it all the same! What I appreciated is the the relationship between Eve and Roarke was not the main point or overdone. It is still sweet and loving with their usual banter, but it was not toothachingly sweet as in the Fatal series by Marie Force! It is just their way! The evil bastard was slightly overdone and deeply stupid, but it was nice reading how they reeled him in! I'm looking forward to the next one hoping the mystery/crime will be much more complicated and inetersting!

As usual Eve and Roarke have done it again! Worked hand in hand to bring justice to a cold-hearted, calculating ,stone-faced killer...we all know the hand cuffs will come out and be slapped on the wrists of the "perp". That's nothing new. I also know there's several (a lot) of people out here in the reading world, that don't much care for Robb/Roberts writing. And that's ok! I am a fan. Just like I am a fan of Robert Parker -especially his Jesse Stone series, and David Balducci and his Stone character..so! Will you like this one? I don't know! But I did..Is it worth your time? I can't answer that either...but I thought so..Will you think it's worthy of a 5star rating if you do decide to read it? Again, I can't answer that for you either--but I gave it 5stars! Bottom line, I am a fan...Cheers!!!

Shadows in Death is book fifty-one in the In Death series by J. D. Robb. One night Lieutenant Eve Dallas and Roarke was at a crime scene when Roarke saw someone from his pass named Lorcan Cobbe. Roarke knew Lorcan was a professional killer and told Eve. However, for Eve this case became personal when she realises that Lorcan had a vendetta against him and people he loved. It becomes a race for Eve and her team to find Lorcan before he kills again. The readers of Shadows in Death will continue to follow Lieutenant Eva Dallas investigation into the murder of a young woman to find out what happens. Shadows in Death is another fantastic addition to this excellent series. When I started to read this book, I forgot about sleeping or housework. I love J. D. Robb portrayal of her characters and their interaction with each other throughout this book. Shadows in Death is well written and researched by J. D. Robb. I like J. D. Robb description of the settings of Shadows in Death that allow me to imagine being part of the plot of this book. The readers of Shadows in Death will understand the consequences of childhood neglect. Also, the readers of Shadows in Death will learn about the problems law enforcement officers have when an investigation goes cold. I recommend this book.

SHADOWS IN DEATH (IN DEATH #51) ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ —-counting crimes- nessa barrett now playing—- "killing's in his bones, in his blood, in his gut. killing is what he is and tht gives him pride" "for though you're not patrick roarke's son in blood, you're his in your cruelty, your bloodlust and the rest" the second i picked up this book and read that the killer was after roarke, i knew it would be good. even though they knew the killer the whole time and there wasn’t a lot of ‘mystery’ it was the the process of tracking him that was so interesting. constantly finding new leads and interviewing civilians, this book showed a newer side of investigating. "we were children" "he was a killer. he was born one. i'm telling you he was made that way" 🚓EVE DALLAS🚓 "but i don't care about kindness from you now. i want your fierceness" our super kickass lieutenant ruthlessly tracked down a man that had eluded all the “alphabets” for decades and presented a whole load of new evidence on a platter to them. "separately, you're formidable. together? i would never bet against you" 💸ROARKE💸 "you think he'll go after your man?" "i think he'll try" tormented by cobbe during childhood, roarke knows what he wants. cobbe wants roarke dead. but he’s come a far way from the vulnerable child in an alleyway in dublin. literally the ending 🤌🤌 🔪LORCAN COBB🔪 "he is a person of interest or suspect in four hundred and forty three murders" WOWWWW JUST WOW. THIS MAN IS PSCHO! a seriously dangerous and probably mental unstable contract killer, cobbe has wanted roarke dead for years. he claimed he was the first born son of roarke’s abusive father (for what reason i don’t know) but now he’s in new york and his new mission is personal. kill roarke and everything he loves. but in the end that’s his downfall. because roarke is married to one of the best homicide investigators in the city and she won’t let him run away scot free. as a child, he cut up a little dog because roarke stopped him from beating up its owner. and the cat… 😭😭 so ANIMAL ABUSER HE CAN GO ROT IN HELL "because its personal. when it's personal, you make mistakes" 🩻SUMMERSET🩻 "and you figure being old means you can outrun and outmanuever a professional killer?" summerset took a mini blaster out of his pocket, "i believe this would compensate for age" "jesus, thats illegal!" this book was one of those rarer ones were eve and summerset ACTUALLY ACKNOWLEDGED that they do in fact like each other. even if she says she hates him and enjoys insulting him, in the end he’s family. and probably a target too. the quotes >>> "fucker's going down. fucking fuck's going the fuck down! pardon my fucking french" i love Jenkinson and his ties and his over fondness for the f word "if i went for girls, and polygamy was legal in this state, i would fucking marry you" reo and dallas are such an underrated duo "show the bleeding jackeen what a clare man's made of!" "fucking ring that fucker's bell!" 🩸💀📝☎️🔪🐈🔒🎤🏠🎁🚨🚓🧕💰

The one reason I keep going back to this series is because of Eve and Roarke's kickass relationship dynamics and this book right here gave me a whole lot of that. Add murder to that and you have the perfect story. This part is better than the previous one in a lot of ways. A major part of the story is set in Dublin, another favourite location of mine. Really enjoyed it.

Yes I love these stories. I devoured this one in about 4+ hours the day after it came in for my library reserve. The story revolves around a killer who Roarke knew as a child. As always I love the smart, strategic, unrelenting investigation Eve runs to track down this killer. We see a little of most of the team, including Whitney and Feeney, a quick moment with Nadine, and a warm visit with Roarke's mother's family. It just hits the spot; I love everything about these cases.

There is no way that I could ever give any of the 51 books in this series less than 5 stars. They are as close to the absolutely perfect crime story, police procedural and romance as any book can ever hope to come. You must start at the beginning and watch Eve and the team grow and develop into the best that NYC has to offer. See Eve and Roark become one of the most endearing couples in today’s literature and watch Peabody in her pink coat, become everything…as a person and as a police detective… that Eve always knew that she could and would be. Of course Galahad...the cat...gets fatter and more adorable with each book and Eve carries on her ongoing verbal battle with Sommerset who she really adores and would protect with her life if need be. This book will just take its rightful place as a part of the one of the best series in print today. About twice a year I and all the fans of this series…get to visit with these very good friends and see what’s happening in their lives. J.D Robb, (Nora Roberts), makes it a marvelous experience every single time. 100 of these books...1000 of these books... would never be too many.

Shadows in Death was better than the last two Naked in Death books in this series by J.D. Robb (AKA Nora Roberts.) I felt that more attention was put on the relationships that Eve and Roarke had built with others, especially in the police department and it was nice to see the loyalty and bonds that have developed. Beloved characters join in on the manhunt in this one, and Roarke is center stage for much of the novel. When you are reading number 51 in a series, it is important to remember that although it can be read as a stand alone, die hard JD Robb fans (I mean...me) really savor the relationships and character development from having read the entire series since the beginning. I am looking forward to the next books in the series.... and when are they going to make a movie from one of these books, preferably the first one?? The quick capture of the homicide in the beginning of the novel leads to a massive inter-agency manhunt for the ultimate killer that seems to have a taste for revenge against Roarke. Nothing gets Eve as ferocious and determined as someone going after her family....but we also get to see more nurturing aspects of her personality - and of course, her insightful mind and leadership qualities. I was shocked to receive this book from my e-lending library so quickly!!! What a blessing!

I really enjoyed this latest book in the Eve Dallas series. I didn’t want it to end! It kept my attention all the way through. I borrowed this book from my library.

The one with the blast from the past Roarke kicked his ass so well 👏🏻

This one was definitely one of my most favorite out of the In Death series! It was action packed, and since Roarke was the main target, everyone got involved to protect him and we also see the deadlier side of Roarke emerge! Absolutely enjoyed this. Devoured it in hours.

For any and all who have not started or finished reading Shadows, all I can and will say is: It grabs and keeps your attention from start to finish! No spoilers whatsoever.😀

A welcome return to form Not that the last few books have been bad, because they haven’t, but I have been mildly disappointed as Roarkes role —- in the last few books——- has been more along the lines of an ancillary character. Well not this book, Roark is from and centre with as much page time as Eve. An old acquaintance from his childhood in Dublin is in New York, this man, Cobbe has always hated Roark and would see him dead, as painfully as possible, after first killing everyone Roarke cares about. Eve and Roarke will need all her team and friends, all his resources and contacts and it still may not be enough to capture a man who has eluded authorities all over the world for over twenty years. Cobbe is a straight out killer, the best at what he does and he’s coming for Roarke.

4.5/5 stars. I thought this one was BRILLIANT. I think this is the only series I’ve read - and I love to read series books - that I still LOVE after 51 books!!! I love the fast paced whodunnit, just enough mushy stuff, & the twists and turns of the back stories of our two MC’s. Loved it.

5 stars Let me start by saying this: there’s going to be a lot of hate for this book for the sole reason people just want to dislike this author for their popularity and there’s this hate train going on for the littlest things this author does so I already know people are going to just come out of the woodworks and find the tiniest thing to hate on this. That is not to say that this book is perfect or that your review will be disingenuous. Books are subjective-- therefore there can be books that I love you hate, and books I hate that you love. I just don't understand or stand for the unwarranted amount of hate that goes into BASHING books just for the way they are written. I have been reading Colleen Hoover since 2012- Slammed was my first book by her. I have had many misses with her along with many hits. With that being said; I read It Ends With Us in 2016. I truly loved how it ended, I thought it was the end. I did not ever expect it starts with us and yet I could not think of what a beautiful and necessary addition this is. It Starts with Us shows the after effects of abuse in every form. It shows how realistic, how tragic and how even a happily ever after is still shadowed by the ache and reminder of abuse. I know people are going to be mad at how often Ryle shows up here but that’s the reality of how abusive situations are, they don’t just die or leave you alone— colleen did a fantastic job at showing how realistic this situation is, at how much of a gaslighter he is. For the Ryle apologist and stans: I’m so glad Colleen wrote this book because there’s NO room for y’all’s bullshit. He is an abuser. This isn’t a dark romance. This is a contemporary romance where an abuser stays abusive, continues to be abusive in the tiniest ways and the cycles are broken. He truly and will forever be a terrible person and I’m so glad that this book continuously highlighted that. Abusers don’t “change” and even if they do, the cycle should be broken forever. We get to see Lily and Atlas as an unit and we get to see them really fall in love with their love. I so deeply appreciated that aspect. We really do get to see them find their way back to each other and then fight for their love. This is THEIR story now. I also want to add, I loved the side characters. Every single one of them. Theo and Josh stole my goddamn heart. The only thing I rolled my eyes at was Lily writing to Ellen still but alas a book can’t be too perfect. Atlas has always been book boyfriend material but this book really cemented him as one of the good guys, and if not one of the top 10 book boyfriend’s in existence. I was not expecting this to get 5 stars from me, my favorite book by Colleen Hoover is Reminders of Him but this really deserves five stars for how thoughtful, realistic and just downright beautiful this was. It ends with us was about Lily and her journey to end the cycle of abuse. It starts with Us is about Lily and Atlas navigating life after ending their own cycles. We’ve reached the shores turned into You can come home now.

i like to think ive matured and i wont be reading collen hoover from here on out, i repect the collen hoover fan though, more power to you when you have exams so you can’t read this I will not be emotionally available for 8-12 business days after this comes out

I don’t think I have ever been so excited. Excuse me for a second I’m going to scream for an hour and cry from happiness. *already gave it five stars because let's be honest we all know this book can’t go wrong.

5 stars It Ends with Us is one of my favorite CoHo books and I was so excited to hear it had a sequel coming out. I needed more Lily and Atlas in my life! This book is hard-hitting at times, but it did have a bit of a lighter feel than IEWU which I think is a good thing. I loved that it was finally Lily and Atlas's time. Also, getting a bit more of Atlas's backstory was great. I do wish we would have gotten a little less Ryle in the book, but I understood why it was necessary that he was in so much of it. This book didn't have the same gut punch/impact as the first book for me, but I still loved it. I think most fans of the first book will also enjoy it, but I also believe that IEWU makes a great standalone for people that don't want to continue on. I'm happy I got to read it and I have to comment on the audiobook- the narrator for Atlas did such an incredible job! Audio book source: Audible Story Rating: 5 stars Narrators: Colin Donnell & Olivia Song Narration Rating: 5 stars Genre: Contemporary Romance Length: 8h 41m

‘’Sometimes people think if they love a broken person enough, they can be what finally repairs them, but the problem with that is the other person just ends up broken, too.’’ (CoHo knows 😢) I was so worried before I picked up the book because of the unrealistic expectations I have for it but….. I feel so complete! You did the right thing writing this book and making it so wholesome. And you know what? I am already expecting a novella or something to know more about Josh! (People, read the book and try to know the good, the bad and the ugly characters). I am so glad this book happened! It gave me a great chance to read the first book again and I am so grateful. For those who don’t know what it’s like to have people close to you who are toxic and harmful I don’t know about you but this book means a lot and at least tells what it’s like to have someone looming around to hurt you according to their whims whenever they feel like it. It’s a cycle and they are never going to change. The story is so good and has a very realistic tone from the beginning till the very end. And what can I say about Alyssa, Theo, Theo’s father, Marshall (People, read the book to know them). (Sigh! I love them so much!) And dear CoHo, if possible I would love it very much if you write a complete story of Theo and his love story! ***coughs in queer*** That would be a game changer! I promise! And if you haven’t hated anyone as much you want to, please hate Tim, Sutton and Ryle. (People, read…. Ok! Ok! I’m leaving…. But pick up the book okie?!!!!) Damn…. I think I believe in romance again: the realistic, mature, yet fictional perfect romance all over again! 22nd October 2022: Calm the heck down and have no expectations whatsoever! 17th October: GOT THE BOOK!!!! So ready you say?! ***one year before the book comes out***Give me the author's laptop or anything that has the uncorrected proof or anything like that.... 🤦

Oh atlas !!!! Your the perfect fish for lilly

5/5⭐️ I consider myself a very critical person but I still don’t understand the hate for these books tbh. like, I really liked both of them? I understand that people can have opinions but I’ve just seen sooo many hateful comments about this book. I expected it to be shit and I genuinely enjoyed them ————————————————————- no thoughts just Lily and Atlas <3 omg it's an Atlas backstoryyyyy I thought it was after it ends with us but this is wayyy better it ends with us- broken lilies it starts with us- blooming lilies SWIMMING "just keep swimming" edit: they aren't lilies but it's a nice wordplay

This is exactly what I wanted from this book 😭❤️ Thanks Colleen for your service 🫡

everything you want and more 🤩 atlas: 😍😍 ryle: 😡😡

5/5 - Colleen, you did the story of Atlas and Lily justice. It was everything I wanted in a sequel. Thank you <3 NO BECAUSE THIS IS WHAT I WANTED— ATLAS AND LILY TO GET A STORY OF THEIR OWN <3

“You're going to drive five miles just to give me a hug?" "I'd run five miles just to give you a hug.” Contrary to all my expectations, this book was absolutely beautiful. buddy read with the wonderful shell! ❤️ warning: spoilers ahead for It Ends With Us PREMISE. This sequel begins a few hours after the epilogue of It Ends With Us. Lily and Ryle have been divorced for a year and a half, and Lily and Atlas have just met up again. Both want to try dating, but Lily is terrified of how Ryle will react to Atlas in her and her daughter’s life. Ryle blames Atlas for their divorce, and he’s been grounds for several fights between Lily and Ryle. PLOT. As reviews were initially coming in for this book, I saw that a lot of people were very frustrated with the way Lily let Ryle stay in her life after the divorce. To that, I’d argue that while both we the readers and Lily know how horrible and abusive Ryle is, there's only so much Lily can change about her situation. Emerson is his daughter (and he still has the legal right to see her), Lily’s best friend Alyssa is his sister, and she doesn't want to abandon her whole floral business and dream of living in Boston out of fear of her ex-husband. Leaving an abusive relationship is extremely difficult, and with so many emotional and situational ropes tying you to your abuser, it’s nearly impossible to cut every rope. It’s an unrealistic expectation to place on anyone, and I’m glad Colleen showed just how messy and emotionally painful that split truly is. The other thing I saw many people saying was that this book was the quintessential “sequel that shouldn’t have been made.” I would disagree. Every action has consequences, and yet in many books, we don’t see those consequences. We see the happily-ever-after ending of Cinderella, skipping the part where the nobles reject and rebel against a commoner as queen. In many romance novels, we see nothing after the main couple get together. We skip the part where they get into fights over who picks up the kid and why one of them is working far too late. We see only the good and none of the hard. This book, on the other hand, showed those consequences. The consequences of abuse don't go away when you get out of an abusive situation. The consequences of divorce don’t end with signing a paper. Maybe the ending of It Ends With Us felt more final, more perfect, but It Starts With Us showed that even the best endings are messy too. CHARACTERS. Ryle Kincaid. I imagine that Ryle Kincaid is what happens if a classic male romance hero existed in real life. Ridiculously attractive, over six feet, very well-educated, possessive, slightly narcissistic, and has a tragic backstory. In any other novel, I don’t think very many people would think twice. Yet in these two books, Colleen examines the dark side of that archetype. In fiction, characters like him don’t have the abusive streak that often runs alongside possessiveness, narcissism, and a difficult past. Reality, however, is much closer to Ryle. I hate him for what he did to Lily, yet it’s worth noting how disturbingly similar he is to heroes that we love. Atlas Corrigan. I adore Atlas with every fiber of my being. In this book, we see more of his own journey with abuse and abandonment, one that was merely hinted at in the first book. If Ryle is the classic male romance hero, Atlas is the secondary love interest. He didn’t end up with Lily the first time around, but he gets a second chance. Like Ryle, Atlas worked his way out of a difficult past, yet unlike Ryle, Atlas overcame it. He didn’t turn possessive and narcissistic and vengeful. He sought to understand, to apologize, to forgive. He is the antithesis of Ryle, and the lover that Lily truly deserves. Lily Bloom. Lily, Lily, Lily. I am so proud of you. All the pain and deliberation you went through and the consideration of your daughter and the standing up against Ryle was beyond difficult, but you did it regardless. Lily truly broke the cycle of abuse. She began breaking it in the first book when she walked away from Ryle, and she ended it in the second book by not making the same mistakes. She changed a multigenerational cycle of abuse, and for that, I am so proud of her. “I can draw a seedling with two tiny branches. Yours and mine. We’ll be on our own brand-new, tiny family tree—one that starts with us.” Ratings: Star Rating: ★★★★★ If This Book Was a Movie Rating: PG-13 Recommendations If You Liked This Book: Beach Read by Emily Henry

•| ⊱✿⊰ |• 4,9 Stars •| ⊱✿⊰ |• A história de Atlas e Lily depois de Emerson nascer. O que ficou por dizer, como termina a história deles. Apesar de ter ficado implícito que ficariam juntos, não sabíamos as dificuldades que iriam ter, o que Ryle iria fazer, como iria reagir. Este é o seu percurso. Gostei de Theo, gostei da surpresa que foi Josh, gostei de muita coisa. O que não gostei e impediu-me de classificar com 5 estrelas, foi como Colleen transformou Ryle num monstro. Com isto não estou a desvalorizar o seu comportamento, mas eu realmente gostei dele no livro anterior (excepto quando começou a ser agressivo), sei que Colleen teria de o tornar mau para que Lily o deixasse e a história dela com o Atlas se tornasse real, mas neste foi demasiado. E depois a aceitação foi suave, para alguém que reagiu da forma como Ryle reagiu durante toda a história, foi uma mudança abrupta. Excepto isso, a história é maravilhosa, tal como foi a anterior, é impossível não nos apaixonarmos pelas personagens, Atlas e Lily 🥰 ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ Atlas and Lily's story after Emerson was born. What remains unsaid, how their story ends. Although it was implied that they would be together, we didn't know the difficulties they would have, what Ryle would do, how he would react. This is their journey. I liked Theo, I liked the surprise that was Josh, I liked a lot of things. What I didn't like, and what kept me from rating it 5 stars, was how Colleen turned Ryle into a monster. This is not to downplay his behavior, but I really liked him in the previous book (except when he started to be aggressive), I know that Colleen would have to turn him mean in order for Lily to leave him and her story with Atlas to become real, but in this one it was too much. And then the acceptance was smooth, for someone who reacted the way Ryle did throughout the story, it was an abrupt change. Except that, the story is wonderful, just like the previous one, it's impossible not to fall in love with the characters, Atlas and Lily 🥰 ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ “𝒀𝒐𝒖 𝒄𝒂𝒏 𝒔𝒕𝒐𝒑 𝒔𝒘𝒊𝒎𝒎𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒏𝒐𝒘, 𝑳𝒊𝒍𝒚. 𝑾𝒆 𝒇𝒊𝒏𝒂𝒍𝒍𝒚 𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒄𝒉𝒆𝒅 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒔𝒉𝒐𝒓𝒆.”

This is a five star for me. Has to be. Sanford is my go-to mainly because he has never let me down. Never. And that is saying a mouthful when put up against the vast number of books I read and have read. When I try book after contemporary book and founder in search for that "Fictive Dream," and can't find one, I drop back to the solitary comfort of an early John Sanford. (I just finished reading Shadow Prey for the third time). Dark Angel is well worth the read. I liked it a great deal. But once put up against early Sanford this book doesn't have the same depth of prose, the attention to detail. The thrust of the book main focuses on servicing the story rather than the character (unlike in earlier books). This isn't uncommon with many authors (John Connolly, puts forth his all in every book). No matter, I still devoured this one in two sittings and can easily recommend it. As with all books there is the "reader world," and the real world. Great fiction straddles the line between both. The closer to real world the better chance for experiencing that ever elusive, "Fictive dream." This is why, of late I have shied away from action/adventure fiction ie, military and some spy (not all). Because they cross the line too deep into the world of incredulity. This book ventures a smidgen too deep into that world. But again, this is a John Sanford novel. Loved it. Will I buy the next hardcover? Already preordered it. David Putnam author of the Bruno Johnson series (and now the Dave Beckett series)

When Lettie Davenport, the adopted daughter of U.S. Marshal Lucas Davenport and his surgeon wife, Weather, used to make an occasional appearance in one of Lucas's books, I never warmed up to her much. Then when she got her own series with last year's The Investigator, I started to take her a bit more seriously. With this, her second book, I started to like her a lot. Seriously. At this point in her life - she's 25 - she's an investigator for Homeland Security, at least on the surface; under it, she works for a powerful U.S. Senator. Through him, she's asked to go under cover to try to infiltrate a ransomware hacking group known as Ordinary People, ostensibly to prevent another attack; in the process, she meets another hotshot investigator and crack sharpshooter, Barbara Cartwright, and they hit it off. Their camaraderie leads to both friendship and, when Lettie needs more help on her assignment, a professional assist (just for the record, I liked her too). Lettie also picks up an undercover "partner" named Rod Baxter - another very likable dude (the repartee between the two can get quite amusing). It doesn't take too long, though, for Letty and Rod to figure out there's more to their assignment than they were led to believe - and the difference between the assumed adversaries and the real ones can become a matter of life and death with the slightest of missteps. All in all, it's another fast-paced book with an intriguing, timely plot that kept me entertained throughout. Many thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review a pre-release copy. Don't miss this one!

At the moment, I am loving Letty with a gun more than Lucas or Virgil with a gun. Highly entertaining!

Letty Davenport.....the newest member of John Sandford's posse. I like the way he's taking this new series, and am enjoying watching him develop the character of Letty. It's different than he's done with the character of Lucas and with Virgil. I honestly don't know how Sandford does it, his imagination must be limitless! With this entry, we observe Letty getting her feet under her, discovering more about who she is, and what she is capable of. I can see great things coming for the series. And with the new partners Sandford has assigned Letty, the series is set for takeoff. I hope he continues to use them. The book is typical Sandford. Fast-paced, full of action, witty, and fun to read. Everything I have come to expect from him, and he doesn't disappoint this time either! I discovered Sandford many years ago, when he was revealed to be a Garage Logician in Minneapolis. I have been a fan ever since! Thank you, John Sandford!

Another exciting, fast paced Sanford mystery full of intriguing characters and a timely, relevant plot! Letty is learning as she goes, and I’m so glad to be along for the ride! My only request is for more of Sandford’s trademark humor. There are amusing lines, but this series doesn’t seem as witty as his others.

John Sandford's novels are always entertain, but he's really topping himself with the Letty Davenport novels. These are fast paced and fresh. Letty is a very likable hard-nosed, gun toting, bad ass. In this second novel spotlighting her, she joins an NSA agent to pose together as rebel computer programmers/hackers in order to infiltrate Ordinary People, a group of hackers with their sights apparently focused on public utilities. Before this ends, the Russia-Ukraine war plays a part in the proceedings in remarkably timely fashion. Also, enter the Russian mob. Plenty of gunplay and action to satisfy thriller fans. A really good one.

Another very enjoyable book in this series. Fantastic characters and action and suspense and the end was a bit dumb with love life but, overall very good. Hour there's more.

As usual, the pages go by in a blur... From father to adopted daughter, the style continues! What Lucas can do, Letty does with a touch of irreverance and street smartness!!

I read this through Netgalley as an arc. 5⭐!! This was a fantastic read, as all of his books are! Story flowed, characters well fleshed out and believable, constant action, can't wait to read the next book in the series. On the downside, there are a few instances were words are mixed up or doubled up, but doesn't take away from the story and expected as an ebook and an arc.

What a great read - lots of bantering, lots of new characters, and a great storyline. Really liking the Letty Davenport Series! Don't mess with Letty!

This might be my favorite Sandford novel for several years. I enjoy the Prey and the Letty novels, but this one felt different. It had the charm of the historic characters and successfully added Cartright, who works for the Agency-that-must-not-be-names, as well as a few others. I think the introduction of the Ladies Gun Club is brilliant. It brings a lot of possibilities to future novels. The biggest question I have about the plot is the unknown reasoning for keeping the actual reason behind the hacker hunt a secret. When it came out, it wasn’t a giant revelation, more like, “Oh, of course, let’s do that.” The suspense built up around this just fell flat at the reveal. Revolving the events around the beginning of the Ukraine invasion really sets this novel in time. I wonder how it will read in a few years. I guess it makes it easy to pinpoint these novels in time, and it’s not like Sandford hasn’t referenced current events in his novels before. Finally, I have to mention my satisfaction with the final confrontation. It’s atypical for crime novel because while it has its share of heroic acts, it isn’t the all-guns blazing shootout we often see when the bad guys and the good guys finally meet. This book is a fast read, and it’s hard to put down. If you like Sandford, you’ll like Dark Angel.

Thank you to NetGalley and G.P. Putnam's Sons for the advanced reader copy of this second Letty Davenport book. I didn't think Letty could have a more amped-up adventure than THE INVESTIGATOR, but this one certainly had as much action if not more than her debut independent outing. The combination of Letty with Barb Cartwright is just as good a pairing as Lucas and Virgil, if not better because they're women and thus underestimated..but only by men with inferior intelligence. Here Letty is paired up with the oafish Paul, a reluctant NSA operative, to find a group of hackers known as Ordinary People, under the guise that the NSA thinks they're about to take down a utility grid when in reality the NSA wants them for a much bigger assignment. But, the Russians are also after Ordinary People and they'rekilling everyone in their path. Letty, Paul and Barb have to be on their toes if they want to stay one step ahead of the Russians. Not sure anyone does pacing as good as John Sandford, he truly is the master at keeping me reading past my bedtime.

i read both of these books through my local library leaning program. what a fun series. "A Letty Davenport" series. if i can i think i will pick a favorite from the 2. i will pick book 2. shocker. do u ever do that??! book 1 was out April 12, 2022. Murder. Murder Thrillers. Suspense. book 2. out on April 11, 2023. i am glad i didn't have to wait for those books. now to wait for book 3. LOL!! Crime Fiction. Mysteries (books & kindle store. will read more from John soon. i see his has plenty of books and series to check out. will do. yeppers. this my favorite. which will be your favorite??! check them out and see asap!!

I listened to this one and the narrator did a great job of making the characters come to life. Letty is sent undercover with an overweight computer operative. The overweight computer operator is a whiner and sometimes gets on Letty's nerves. They are sent to find a computer hacking group and get them to hack for the government, but the government will deny this. They have a hard time finding the group and are arrested once and have to call the bosses to get them out of trouble. There are dead bodies everywhere and non stop action. I am giving this one 5 out of 5 stars. I hope that Mr. Sandford writes more about Letty in the future.

The 2nd in Sanford’s Letty Davenport series, the adopted daughter from the series of Lucas Davenport books…Working as a “fixer” for one of Minnesota’s Senators and with her amazing intellectual, tactical and firearms skills she is drawn into a deep, sub Rosa computer hacking operation targeting important Russian activities on the cusp of the Ukrainian invasion…Edge of your seat, page-turning thriller, with great characters that’s was too difficult to put down…Good stuff!!!

Always a fun ride with John Sanford. Even after all these years, he still manages to develop his core group of characters and put them into interesting situations. In this case, he continues to have Letty in a fascinating situation torn from the headlines about the war in Ukraine and hackers. I can see that the Peace Makers are going to be fascinating group of ladies with many more stories to tell. Buckle up and enjoy!

Solid Sanford detective romp

As always the great John Sanford entertains and thrills with his writing. The 2nd in a series with Letty Davenport.

James Patterson and Dolly Parton - this was one book I had to read. I may have squealed when my request was approved on Netgalley - thank you so much Random House UK, Cornerstone, Century. I have been a long time James Patterson fan and who doesn't love Dolly right. This was a lovely story, with a strong influence from Dolly. There is going to be a 12 song album of song that Dolly has written just for the book and I cannot wait to hear it when the book comes out in March. As always with Patterson reads, I was up until very late reading until the very end. And I am not sorry about it all. This book will appeal to more than the regular James Patterson readers which makes me really happy. Our main character is young AnnieLee Keyes, a singer with a big dream and a big voice. She arrives in Nashville to become a star, and to escape her past. She arrives with a small backpack and the determination to succeed. The music business is not for the weak and she makes some strong connections and friends with a legend of the country music scene who sees her potential. She is finally getting everything she has ever wanted, but she is tired of looking over her shoulder all the time. Her secrets are always there and are threatening to destroy her. Bravo James and Dolly. This is one heck of a book and it deserves to be a bestseller. Released March 7th, 2022

OH MY GOSH!!!! I absolutely adored Run Rose Run by Dolly Parton and James Patterson! I loved every minute of this book! Country music is one of my many favorite music genres, so this book was right up my alley. While reading this story I was on the edge of my seat because I just wanted to know what was going to happen. The story was just so easy to follow. Run Rose Run had me hooked from the very first page, and was unputdownable! Although this story didn't make me cry, I felt all the emotions that went along with the story. This story is about chasing your dreams, music, love, passion, and song writing. I definitely recommend this book to anyone, it is a long book, but the chapters are super short, so that was good! It was just a mind blowing story!!! This novel deserves way more than a 5 star!!! UPDATE: THIS BOOK IS TURNING INTO A MOVIE, I'M SO EXCITED!!!!! "The thing is, you can be God's gift to the radio waves and it's still rare that you get something for nothing". In Run Rose Run we follow the journey of AnnieLee Keyes, who is chasing her dreams to becoming a country music artist. This is a wonderfully entertaining story of a young, promising, talented singer-songwriter trying to escape an abusive past and make it in Nashville. AnnieLee Keyes has been writing music and singing since she could talk. AnnieLee leaves her hometown and arrives at the Nashville Cats Paw saloon because she just wants to sing on stage. While AnnieLee is performing on stage another aspiring country music artist, Ethan Blake notices her! Ethan thinks AnnieLee has a beautiful and painful voice, and so much potential, so he calls the retired queen of country music, Ruthanna Ryder. Ethan seemed like such a sweetheart, and just wanted what was best for AnnieLee. After hearing AnnieLee, Ruthanna opens her arms and home to AnnieLee. Ruthanna is determined to help AnnieLee make her dreams come true. Every song tells a story. She's a star on the rise, singing about the hard life behind her. She's also on the run. Nashville is where AnnieLee has come to claim her destiny, but it's also where the darkness might find her. And destroy her. AnnieLee is such a firecracker, she's also extremely sassy. AnnieLee doesn't like being called little. AnnieLee had nobody and nothing at all, she's alone and broke. This novel focuses on AnnieLee, Ethan, and Ruthanna whose lives have become connected and entwined. AnnieLee has a secret that no one knows about. Each character in this story has a secret, but are they willing to share it with the others they have come so close to? I was at a loss for words at the end. I loved every character! Sometimes it felt like I was in the crowd cheering on AnnieLee as she was performing.

Did I listen to the album Dolly released alongside this book while reading it? Yes, yes i did. Those of you that know me know that Dolly is my absolute queen and I would anything for that sweet fairy, so when I found out last year she was writing a book I think my scream was probably heard around the entire globe. Enter AnnieLee, our tough back roots girl with a not so happy past trying her best to make it in country music. Like most country singers, she knows she has to make the move to Nashville to try and land her bit break and become the next Patsy Cline or Loretta Lynn (or Dolly Parton…). She turns up in Nash with songs in her pockets and talent brimming inside of her, but as our sweet AnnieLee starts to rise up the ranks of the country scene her past begins to catch up with her, and it’s a damn sight stickier than trying to walk through a lake of molasses. I feel like this book was the perfect combo of thriller, suspense and romance for them, it’s a cute little genre crossover that I love. I wouldn’t say any of them are the main genre, but rather it’s a triple talent for all three genres. And the album from Dolly? SWEETER THAN APPLE PIE AND SWEET TEA ON A HOT DAY IN JUNE. I loved it. I love Dolly. I love Century books for publishing this. I LOVE IT I LOVE IT I LOVE IT. Please go and read about my little country pumpkin AnnieLee and listen to her story while my queen serenades you.

“Run Rose Run” is a highly entertaining piece of commercial fiction; I read it in one sitting, I kind of devoured it. Listening along to the audiobook while reading, narrated by Dolly herself and singer Kelsea Ballerini was a fascinating reading experience. It just felt like I was watching a movie played out on screen, and I can’t wait to see Dolly physically play the role of Ruthanna, I know that will happen one day soon! She was born for a role like this; you definitely see her input throughout the whole book, it reads like something that Dolly would tell the story of, a young woman on the run, who wants to be a singer songwriter in Nashville who is mentored by the semi retired queen of country music...... It’s fluff. But it’s very very fun fluff. As a huge Dolly fan, it really satisfied me!

This was such a fun read. It had Dolly's voice all over it. From the names to the country slang. I loved it and being a book lover and music lover, this was a must read for me. I highly recommend Run Rose Run. 5 stars two times.

This is just a wonderful book. Just enough intrigue, just enough action and pulls at the heart strings of anyone that has ever been down and out. Dolly Parton is easy to picture in this novel.

Please see full video review on my YouTube channel - https://youtu.be/evM20Pvfm5c

I listened on Audible. Annie Leigh chases her dream to Nashville where she encounters Blake who takes an interest in her, introduces her to a retired country star and her whirlwind of success begins a little bit to easy in many respects. However, Annie Leigh holds a secret. She's not who she says she is and the book leads us through the journey of find out the secret that will either redeem her or kill her. We are toured through the life of what a rising star might expect to find on their journey to stardom, and in Annie Leigh's case, we are given tiny clues into what lurks behind her and who Rose might be. I enjoyed the story. It might be a little long-winded for the non-country fan but, overall, it wasn't overdone. Blake is a bit of a hero as we would expect, the story doesn't harp romantical, and it gives a sense of how easily social media can aid a stalker persona. To me, it was great. I'd recommend it.

After a week spent in bed sick, receiving approval for Think Twice was just the medicine that I needed on a Friday morning. It made me so happy to see this book download onto my Kindle, and I dove right in. I don’t do that very often, but when it is a new Harlan Coben book, the world just has to stop for a while. I was so very happy to be back in Myron and Win’s world 😊 It has been a long time, and from the first page I was enthralled. The whole gang is here, Esperanza, Big Cyndi, Therese and even Ellen and Al! this fan girl was smiling all the way. And the story, my goodness. Get ready for a wild ride across the states as Myron and Win try to find out why the FBI are looking for a client of Myron’s, a client who died 3 years ago. Nothing is ever straight forward of course. This case will hit close to home, and put them all in danger. This book was an intense page turner, and I stayed up all night to finish it. Oh my goodness, the ending!! When you read it please message me as I need to talk about it to somebody!! It was emotional, it was funny. The banter between Myron and Win is still there, still sharp as ever. Thank you so much Harlan for bringing us another adventure with these characters. It made my heart sing. One of my most anticipated books for 2024 and it was spectacular. And a massive thank you to Grand. Central Publishing for giving me early access to read one of my favourite authors of all-time newest creation. You made me so happy. Publishing on May 14th, this is a must-read for fans of the series and anyone who loves a good story. This can be read as a stand-alone lone as you are given plenty of background as you go. But seriously, you will want to read all the other books too.

I do not have the foggiest idea why I had to wait 8 years for Harlan Coben to write, yet, another great book in the Myron Bolitar series. Well, it was worth the wait. I just love the characters in his series… Big Cyndi, Esperanza, Win, Myron and now Terese. Throw in Big Cyndi’s antics, the witty conversations with Win, the discovery of the libido increasing marijuana gummies by Myron’s parents and you have a great mystery novel with a lot of humor. I was again at a loss trying to guess the killer’s identity. The ending was superb with several gentle twists. I recommend this read for my fellow GR friends. The question is … how long do we have to wait before we can jump on the next rollercoaster ride in this series?

I have read this series since the 1990's (again those books on tape) I bought this as a preorder before I cancelled my audible subscription ages ago and didn't get around to reading it till this week. OH so good to have the old gang all back together. This is another author that has his characters age in real time. Win and Myron as so good. I know I keep raving about the book and not giving much review. BUT I am just happy to listen to Steven Weber voice each character and bring them to life. The book is filled with action and the "mysterious" evil doers plotting. Several great twists and WOW moments and I give the book 4.5* and round up. I hope I don't have to wait years for the next one. One thing when I write a review is that I have a lot of enthusiasm and will never be an author so forgive typo's please lol

This was a stellar read!!! and I enjoyed the array of complex characters in the mix. Coben always manages to hit his books right out of the park! and I can only hope we get to see more of the Character Myron in future books. How can a dead man commit a murder; oh not just 1 murder but also be connected to 2 in total? That's the question Myron is trying to answer while trying to come to terms with his situationship with an ex girlfriend and their son. As Myron tries to uncover the mystery, lives are at stake and he's had to come to terms with what and who can be traded for the people we love! Watch out for the end, just when you think you've got it figured out! Thanks for the ARC! Grand central publishing Release Date 5/14/2024

5/14/24: It’s publication day!! Ah, Harlan, I have missed you. It’s been too long since I immersed myself in Myron Bolitar’s world, and it was so fun to come back to it. I’ve read three (I think) other Myron books, so I was somewhat familiar with the characters, but never fear—this *can* be read as a standalone, although it’s better if you’ve read at least some of the previous books. Coben does a good job here of catching you up just enough on things you need to know about. Win is, of course, as smugly arrogant as always, and he joins Myron here to unravel the mystery of how a dead man could have committed two recent murders. Coben reels you right in at the start, and I was no exception to this. I had six books on my to-read ARC shelf, and, while I was a good girl and read the next book on the list first, I was then sucked into this one ahead of schedule because Coben is just that good. I swear I was just opening up the ebook for a second, but that PROLOGUE!! That’s how you *do* it, folks. Coben is also hysterically funny, and if you’re still on the fence about reading this, it does contain the most hilarious cover band name I have ever encountered, and it’s no exaggeration to say that the book is worth reading for that ALONE. 😉 I howled with laughter until I ran out of air…and then I laughed some more. Mr. Coben—you and I would get along famously. I love some humor with my thrillers. Are you convinced yet? There’s a reason his books keep getting adapted to the small screen—Harlan Coben is a MASTER. That’s enough out of me. Put this on your to-read shelf and mark your calendars for May 14, 2024! Thank you so much to NetGalley, Grand Central Publishing and the man himself for the complimentary eARC. All opinions are mine alone. I just hit 100 books reviewed on NetGalley about a week and a half ago, but receiving this ARC? Indescribable.

I love Harlan Coben! He is one of my must buy/favorite authors and his books never disappoint…EVER! 𝗧𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗸 𝗧𝘄𝗶𝗰𝗲 is the latest in the Myron Bolitar series (one of my absolute favorite series of all time), and once again Coben hit it out of the park with this high octane mystery. ✔️𝗥𝗲𝗮𝗱 𝗶𝗳 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗹𝗶𝗸𝗲: Mystery Sarcasm & Witt Excellent supporting characters NYC Drama Moral Compass Tension High Octane Situations Excellent Twists! Stand Alone Yoohoo😂 🔢𝗗𝗼 𝗜 𝗻𝗲𝗲𝗱 𝘁𝗼 𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝘀 𝘀𝗲𝗿𝗶𝗲𝘀 𝗶𝗻 𝗼𝗿𝗱𝗲𝗿? Honestly, you could read this series out of order. Each book gives you enough background pertaining to the story itself without giving spoilers from the previous book. 📖𝗛𝗼𝘄 𝘄𝗮𝘀 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗽𝗮𝗰𝗲? In my opinion, any book Coben writes is always a fast paced adventure that I cannot put down, so be prepared to get nothing done as soon as you start this book. ✨𝗗𝗼 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗿𝗲𝗰𝗼𝗺𝗺𝗲𝗻𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝘀 𝗯𝗼𝗼𝗸? Heck YES! you can never go wrong with any Coben book you pick up! Especially this series! It is perfect for the beach/pool, the weekend, if you're traveling, if you need a good laugh, if you're looking for some sarcastic comments to throw into your everyday conversations…so, basically you need this series in your life and if you haven't started reading it, you need to now. Thank you Grand Central Publishing for this gifted copy in exchange for my honest opinions.

Book 12, the last one. I'm so sad this series is over. I fell in love with all these characters. Let's start with Allen and Ellen Bolitar (Myron's parents); they are a hoot. Loving and overbearing, but perfect in Myron's eyes, they add so much love to these books. Big Cindy is a necessary character; she brings color and flair and has the biggest heart. Esperanza is one tough cookie; her character shows love and steadiness. She is Myron's best friend, and their relationship is amazing. Win and Myron have that special friendship that's like brothers. The dynamics between them is amazing and heartfelt. They complement each other and hold each other accountable. Win is cold, and Myron is warm, but together they are unstoppable. This book had so many ups and downs, and the way it ended was full circle. Have I mentioned how incredibly sad I am that this series is over? Well done, Harlan Coben, for writing this memorable series! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

This is book 12 in the Myron Bolitar series and I was so happy to invited back into this world. I love the characters in this series (and not just our main characters Myron and Win who are fabulous), but the supporting characters are also fabulous and all of my favorites were present in this one. I will admit I haven’t read every book in this series (I found it late and am still catching up) but the story still worked for me. Myron is surprised when the FBI stops by demanding to know where his old friend Greg is. Myron is particularly surprised because Greg died years ago. But the more Myron and Greg dig into the murder deceased Greg is suspected of the more they realize how much they didn’t know. In addition to a serial killer who kills and frames someone else with motive (pretty scary concept of a serial killer if I’m honest) there is a lot of family drama as well but in a really good way. I was so happy to see Myron and Jeremy actually talking and spending a bit of time together, even if it was just to try to keep Jeremy’s father out of jail.

It took me a while to get to this, but once I spied it on audio, I was ON. Harlan Coben is my favourite author, this does not mean I rate all of his books 5, it means I love his style, his wit, banter, and general vibey tone. When I love a book it often comes down to the characters, and this is what I love with HC. I love his people, they are my tribe. They are quirky, flawed, smart, fallible and super funny. We see a little of Myron and his wife, his love life really is never meant to be the shining star here, we see the unconventional way they live, and a spot of jealousy, too. Myron is tasked with solving a murder which happens to involve his dead nemesis, his rival. He delivered Greg Downing's eulogy for God's sake. Each book is fantastical, one must suspend belief, and this is part of the fun. Esperanza makes a comeback, she and Myron talk about working together again - woo hoo! Win has Myron's back. What impressed me here is the reality of ageing. The author specifically mentioned Myron's subtle picking up of Win's miniscule changes. Tiny signs of the small things, slightly more affected by alcohol, a blink and you'll miss it change in reaction time. I found this wholesome, real. What NEVER changes is Win being there for his guy. There for Myron in every way, physically, emotionally, logistically. Myron is going to need him now, more than ever. This story did not end well for Myron. This latest offering in the Myron Bolitar series was action packed, fanciful, propulsive and fun. The characters are just the best, and I love Myron to bits. Be well, Myron.

It’s been eight years since Myron and Win’s last adventure, and they haven’t missed a beat. This was the first book I’ve ever pre-ordered then read on release day, and it was well worth the wait! Coben’s latest thriller brings our heroes right back into action, which will appeal to new readers and long-time fans of the series. The return of their witty banter and deadpan one-liners had me laughing out loud (yes, really. My wife kept looking at me funny) multiple times in just the first 20 pages. Also, all of Myron’s interactions with Terese are just 🤌🏼 As a die-hard of the series, the established relationships among the cast of characters feel authentic and real, as if you’re sitting in the Dakota with them. If only some of that cognac came with a copy of Think Twice… What I found both endearing and melancholy were the small details of them aging, especially through Myron’s observations of his parents and Win. Instead of keeping the characters frozen in time, Coben has them aging alongside the reader. The plot is full of twists and turns, as always, and I wasn’t left with any loose ends. Granted, when it comes to Coben’s thrillers, I’m not hard to please. The worst part about the ending was that I have no idea how long I’ll have to wait until the next installment, should we be lucky enough to get one!

Harlan Coben, master storyteller, is back with his #12 novel in the popular Myron Bolitar series with THINK TWICE. An enthralling thriller with all the action, suspense, twists, and humor the author is known for —when Myron discovered one of his former client's DNA has been found at a murder scene that everyone thought was dead —is just the beginning of this knock-out page turner! Coben and Myron Bolitar FANS will devour THINK TWICE! Secrets and lies abound in a murderous conspiracy that stretches back into the past churn at the heart of the blistering new thriller from Harlan Coben, #1 New York Times bestselling author and creator of the #1 Netflix drama Fool Me Once. Myron is on the phone with his 80-year-old father having a lively discussion when two FBI agents arrive in this office with new information about the murders of Cecilia Callister, a 1990s semi-supermodel, and her 30-year-old son Clay. It was assumed the two were murdered by Callister’s fourth husband after she agreed to testify against him on fraud charges after discovering he was having an affair. However, new evidence points to Greg Downing and his involvement. The problem is he is DEAD! He died three years earlier. Myron Bolitar has reopened his sports agency and teams up with friend and attorney Win Lockwood. Greg was a former client. They had history. How could this be? Is Greg still alive? Did he fake his own death? Myron and his friend Win investigate the crime and case further, which turns complex, twisty, and dangerous. From secrets, lies, conspiracy, and Murder when the past and present collide. Get ready for a wild roller coaster ride with all the gang and favorite characters from previous books. So much fun! You will laugh out loud at the banter. INTENSE, absorbing, a clever, twisty plot, and highly entertaining characters with action, fast-paced suspense, humor, and wit! Everything Coben writes is pure gold. Even if you have not read the previous books in the series, it can be read as a standalone, but why miss out on all the fun? Thanks to Grand Central Publishing and NetGalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review. I also purchased the audiobook narrated by one of my favorites, Steven Weber! Blog review posted @ JudithDCollins.com @JudithDCollins | #JDCMustReadBooks My Rating: 5 Stars Pub Date: May 14, 2024 May Newsletter May 2024 Must-Read Books

Myron Bolitar is back in this 12th installment of this series. This time, Myron gets a surprise visit from the FBI asking about the whereabouts of his former client, Greg Downing. Myron is confused because Greg is dead, but the feds say Greg's DNA was just found at a double murder scene. How can that be? Of course, Myron, Win, and Esperanza are on the case. This was yet another excellent entry in this series. Full of twists, turns, red herrings, and the sarcastic quips we all have come to know from this series. They help ease the tension in this book. The characters continue to grow as they've aged over the years, and it's like visiting with old friends. I definitely recommend it! My thanks to Grand Central Publishing, author Harlan Coben, and NetGalley for gifting me a digital copy of this book. All opinions are my own.

Stunning! I'm still shocked at that climax! It feels like a lot of things are coming together in this one. It's a real heart stopper.

So glad for more adventures of Myron, Win, and the gang!

Myron and Win find out their dead client’s DNA has been found at the site of a murder and start investigating the possibility he is still alive. Unearthing a serial killer in the process, the duo find themselves in the middle of a complicated case. From the start, this is explosive and action packed with lots going on. Fast paced and peppered with humour (Myron’s parents had me laughing out loud), this book had me constantly turning the pages. There’s some great twists and turns along the way. This would be well suited to a Netflix adaptation, something Coben is a king at! Many thanks to NetGalley and Random House for my advanced copy.

Myron Bolitar is back with all of the regular cast from this series. I enjoyed this book more than any others from the series. I'm so glad this book was written and I hope that there will be more. 5 🌟

#ad I received a gifted copy of this book - many thanks and appreciation to @grandcentralpub #partner I have a confession. Although I love watching limited series based on Harlan Coben books, this was my first read by the author. I know. Shame to me. What a writer! The story hooked me immediately- and although the characters didn’t flatter me much I came to love them. The story was genius! If watching true crime has taught us anything it’s that you cannot get away with murder these days. So how does a serial killer escape all our technological advances? Coben has crafted the perfect murder book. Also, Beluga Whale detective made me almost pee my pants. I could picture this character perfectly in my mind. 🐳 If you watch true crime, you’ve seen this type of character. This one will entertain you completely. Can’t wait to read more from this author.

God it felt so good to be back with Myron and the gang, it’s been way too long and I missed these characters so much. Being back in this world was like reuniting with old friends, if you’ve read and loved this series like me you’ll know exactly what I mean. As always there is a fantastic mystery, Myron’s old rival is wanted by the FBI in a current murder case but the catch is he died several years ago so why is he connected to a current crime? That’s all I’ll say but in his usual style the author took me on a wild and unpredictable ride that left me shocked by the end. I was even a little emotional when I finished, an unexpected tug on my heartstrings that made me ache. This is such a great series, can’t wait for the next installment and hopefully it won’t be such a long wait for book 13!

Three years ago, Myron Bolitar have a eulogy for his former client and 'frenemy' Greg Downing Now, federal agents claim that Greg is alive and wanted for a double homicide. Who does Myron call - Win of course and they set out to uncover the truth. But being book 12 in this series - Myron and Win are peas in a pod... some of my favorite characters in any series.. especially thriller. Yes, this can be read as a standalone, you get enough background on the characters and how they tie in, but they grow on the reader and you come to expect smart a$$ comments from Win and wait for a shot to be fired or Huey Lewis and the News to play in the background. I love these books, this series and Harlan Coben's other books. He is a go to auto buy author for me. The banter between Win and Myron never disappoints, you will want more for certain characters in the series and cheer them on. This page turner is a must read... Harlan Coben fans know and understand this when I say "articulate"

Harlan Coben has written another stellar book!!! This was gripping from the very beginning and it just kept getting better! Myron and Win set out to find out the truth about Greg, a basketball coach who was presumed dead and who killed him. All kinds of obstacles get in their way and I was shocked by the ending!! Myron and Will make the perfect crime duo! Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for this early release in exchange for my honest review. All opinions are my own. To be published May 14, 2024.

I enjoyed this one but, at times it was a little confusing. It had all the usual twists in it and red herrings but, for me there were alot of characters to keep up with.

I’ve never read a Harlan Coben book and I’ve not read any others in this series, and yet this was brilliant. I didn’t guess the outcome and each part of the story really did keep me intrigued. Loved it from start to finish and I will certainly be picking up another.

Wow! Loved this. Myron Bolitar is back and so are all the gang. One of the best in the series by far.

What an entertaining book! One cannot go wrong spending time with our good friends, Windsor Horne Lockwood, III (Win) and his partner in crime, Myron Bolitar, though these two are not actually criminals, but long time friends and crime busters extraordinaire. It’s almost a certainty that from the moment the feds show up in your orbit, your life is going to become sticky, and that is exactly what happens here! This is a fast moving, complicated story of the mutual friend of the two, who has been dead for several years…OR this is what everyone thought. Well, from this point on, follow along closely for a very interesting story and you will not be disappointed! When the questions turn back to their orbit, with murders that may or may not be close to their world, the pieces almost fit together ~ but do they… I thoroughly enjoyed this book! My thanks to Grand Central Publishing via Net Galley for the download copy of this title for review purposes.

“Think Twice” by Harlan Coben was an absolutely enjoyable read filled with intriguing plot twists, intelligent dialogue and some humor as you would expect from this great author! Mr. Coben has brought back to us Myron Bolitar sports agent, and moneyed blue blood best friend Win Lockwood, in an action packed wild adventure. Famed basketball coach Greg Dowling died three years ago and Myron gave his eulogy, so why is the FBI in Myron’s office asking Myron where he is and letting him know his DNA was found at a double murder. Greg is Myron’s nemesis, he married Myron’s ex wife and was the father to Myron’s biological son, is it possible he is alive and a killer? This sets the stage for the thrilling journey Myron and Win embark on along with a host of our favorite characters from past books in the Bolitar series. This book is action packed, tension filled and impossible to put down. This book can be read as a standalone, but if it’s your first read of this series I promise you will want to read all of them as these characters stay with you long after the books are finished. This book goes on my 2024 best reads list! Thank you NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for the ARC of this book in exchange for my honest review.

Think Twice by Harlan Coben is a fast paced thriller When the FBI shows up to see Win and Myron Bolitar, they are stumped when they ask about a client named Greg Downing. Gregs DNA has connected him to a murder, but that would be impossible because he died three years ago. As they begin their own investigation into Greg Downing, Myron and Win discover secrets that were well hidden, landing themselves in the crosshairs of a Mob Boss and his henchmen. I loved the characters, especially Win, Myron, and Esperanza. As they slowly unravel this mystery, they find more twists and turns, making this murderous mystery a fun rollercoaster style thrill ride from beginning to end. What will they uncover? And how is the other murders connected? And most of all, how is the DNA of a deadman at a murder scene three years after his death? This was my first read for this series, and this author, and although I was able to follow the storyline, I will definitely read the previous books. I definitely recommend this read as it’s an engaging fast paced story.

An intense taut thriller featuring the return of Myron Bollitar, the sports agent. And Win Lockwood, Myron's best friend, is a long for the ride. Greg Dowling, the man responsible for the ending of Myron's basketball career, has been dead for three years. Then why and how does his DNA surface at a recent murder? And now you are in for a heck of a ride.... Rounded up from 4.5⭐

There is little to be gained in being a rigid fan. See the howls of derision when Daniel Craig was announced as Bond – There can’t possibly be a blonde haired Bond! Lee Child may be retiring, but he has sensibly kept his name on the first book written with his brother as the new Jack reacher author. Critics have pointed out that Reacher talks more, that he uses a mobile phone and even drives, more than once! So what? There will be changes, that’s the point of bringing in a new author. That and to keep the series going. Supply and demand. Of which there is plenty. Elements of Reacher’s mythology are peppered throughout: reference to his French mother, pointy heads, his MP unit, military tactics. And an obliging lady, eventually. There are all kinds of twists and turns. There is definitely more life in this one than in the last couple of books, if you ask me. The last top quality one was Night School, 4 books ago. You could see that Lee Child was running out of ideas, exactly why he brought his younger brother in. This story is bigger in every way. There are international angles, at least two heinous networks of bad guys, a larger cast of characters and a smattering of the trademark sarcasm. It gets personal for Reacher. It always does. It’s personal for us, the fans. But I, for one, am very happy with the new injection of life.

The Sentinel was really good. As usual Reacher the vagabond saves the day. In the novel he seemed overly confident in his abilities and he constantly undermined his opponents. Everything worked out well in the end but it'll be nice if Reacher gets fucked up and beat up once in a while.

Last year I read the 24 previous Jack Reacher novels, and also the Jack Reacher short stories, novellas and crossovers. In fact, I had to make sure I read other books in between. So it was a long wait of almost a year for this volume to be released. And then this one ended up being something very different. It appears that Lee Child is passing the Reacher baton to his younger brother. Lee is 14 years Andre’s senior. And Andrew is a well-respected author in his own under his name Andrew Grant. This one is in some ways different and in others very much like a Reacher novel. This story does not give any real indication where it falls in the Reacher story arc. Some novels give a clear indication of which came before or which came after. But this one seems to float out there alone. In some ways this story feels like Persuader, Reacher is in the wrong place at the wrong time. There is a long preamble set in Nashville. The Nashville incident could make an interesting story in and off itself. But Reacher leaves town and ends up on the hunt for coffee. He witnesses what he recognizes as a set up for an obduction. And that the intended victim is completely oblivious. Reacher sticking to his moral code steps in and turns events around. And soon he finds himself in a strange situation. Trying to protect a computer geek. Deal with an undercover agent. Determine who is really the bad guys and what they are really after. All in a town that has all it’s computer systems locked down with ransom ware. And everyone in town thinking the guy Reacher saved is if not at fault directly responsible for the situation the town is in. There are also implications about the security of elections. And of course the novel released just weeks before the US general election in 2020. The story moved along at a brisk pace. I could not tell which parts were written by Lee and which by Andrew. The story flowed well. Some interesting twists. And some history lessons. Overall a very good read. On a side note I can’t wait to see what Diane Capri does in her Hunt for Reacher series. How will Otto and Gaspar debrief the characters from this story. The Reacher novels were originally great reads during my commute to work. They were excellent for my ride on the bus. But since it is 2020 and I now work full time from home, this story was read on a day off, over a few mugs of coffee, in part sitting on the porch in the sun on an unusually warm fall day. The Reacher novels are entertaining, usually fast paced and always interesting. This is a good read in a great series, and one of my favorites. I look forward to what the brothers will come up with together next, or what direction Andrew will take the character. Read the review on my blog Book Reviews and More and reviews of other books by Lee Child.

5 Stars. Nuff said. On to Reacher’s next adventure.

Every time I see a new Lee Child book on the shelve in the book store, it brings a smile to my face. I know I’m in for many hours of wonderful entertainment. Thank you, Mr Child, for not killing off Reacher and allowing your brother, Andrew Child to carry on the series. I know you’ve made many fans happy. This book is truly sensational, definitely up to the usual high standard of Jack Reacher. It was by pure chance that Rusty Rutherford came into contact with Jack Reacher. As usual Reacher was minding his own business, more worried about finding a place with food and coffee, but along the way he ran into Rusty. After Reacher learnt that Rusty had been delt a bad hand and was now in serious trouble did he decide to hand around and see if he could help. He had nothing better to do, although there were a few people in town that were keen to see Reacher get out of the way and just leave. Seriously great entertainment from start to finish. Easily worth the 5 Star rating.

I started reading #FREED one minute after midnight on June first. Right after amazon delivered it to my kindle. But the book was soo long that I could only read 4-10% in one sitting. Which I loved. I wanted this book to last forever. I wouldn't have minded another 500 pages. I don't know why I love Christian's thoughts so much. I know I prefer a male POV in books, but still ... I loved Ana's books too. But Christian is just ... perfect. Perfectly imperfect of course. I loved that we got to see so many moments we missed in Ana's book. And there's even more that I wanted to hear about. I wanted to walk through London and Paris with them! I really missed that. But there were so many amazing moments in this book. There were also some thing I hated - like I always do in most of my 5-Star-Reads. I hate religion in my books and there was a tiny bit too much church and praying in here. 😞 And my pet peeve when it comes to British authors with their American characters. I know it's hard to get rid of all your words and expressions, but it bothers me so much! And there have been beta-reads and proof-reads and editings done by American people with this book ... why didn't they find all those many things? I highlighted SO many British moments. Ugh. Ever since I read the first Fifty Shades book, I keep wondering why Erika didn't just let the Greys be British?? It would've been so easy to just have them move to Seattle because of a good job for Grace or Carrick. Maybe when Christian was around 10-13 years old. That way all those British moments would've made so much more sense. Plus... Jamie's Irish wouldn't have bothered me in the movies. He does a good American accent but you hear the Irish in almost ever word/sentence. 😭 Anyway. I loved this book! I loved all the moments. The beautiful and funny and adorable moments. Christian with Elliot. Christian with Mia. Christian with Ethan. All of his moments. Just beautiful. But I will also keep on hoping that those were not the last words/thoughts of Christian we ever get. I hope that there will be more one day. I don't know how the following idea came into my head, but somehow I see Christian with a dog. I think he needs a dog. No idea why!? I think I need a novella where he adopts a dog - a dog that loves him best. That would be so adorable! 💜 💜

Cannot wait. I want to know what Christian was thinking when she told him she was pregnant and what he thought when he thought she was going to leave him. I’m so excited!!!

‘We’re flying through the sunset to chase the dawn.’ Back in 2011 I picked up Fifty Shades of Grey after coming off a long binge of paranormal romance, I craved something different but of course, it still had to have romance in it! Little did I know at the time, that by picking up the Fifty Shades series by EL James my life would change and bring me a whole new wonderful world: the book world. A place where I’ve found so many book friends around the globe – friends for life. I consequently discovered new Authors I would’ve never known about, and because of Fifty, it led to starting a book blog with my book soulmate and bessie mate, Jenny. I’ve experienced new and exciting things I never could’ve imagined and of course -above all, it brought me the unforgettable Anastasia Steele and Christian Grey as well as a tattoo quote, which to me, epitomizes their journey. Ten years filled with wonderful moments, amazing books, and like-minded people, creating memories I will always treasure, come what may. For this, I will always be thankful for the Fifty Shades series and will always hold its Author, EL James close to my heart. ‘I know what it’s like to bathe in her light. She is warmth and life and home. She is everything. I want her by my side. I love her.’ Reading FREED told by Christian, knowing that this is the last book to reveal his inner musings and the why’s of his actions was quite bittersweet. I was excited to begin yet hesitant to finish. Now, sitting here in my garden on a warm summer’s evening, drinking wine out of a glass etched with Freed, which could not be any more apt, I feel quite despondent yet overwhelmingly happy at the same time. I have loved this series for everything it was and always will be, that EL James gave us three more books to have the privilege of Christian Grey’s voice was a gift worth its weight in both gold and girth, as this last instalment proved. And you know what -even so- I could’ve kept reading, such is my love for Fifty Shades and everything it embodies, and to be honest, it’s go big or go home right?! Well, EL James went big and she brought me home. A home I will remember fondly as I’m sure the rest of you will too. ‘I’m unleashed. My need for her greater than I ever imagined. I want to crawl inside her skin so she can keep me in one piece; keep me whole.’ I don’t need to tell you about Freed, Fifty Shades as Told by Christian. If you’ve been on the same journey as me, you know what it means, what the crux of the story is, and how it will end. What you won’t know yet if you haven’t read it, is how wonderful, emotional, and revealing Freed is across a storyline we’ve had the ultimate pleasure in experiencing once before in Ana’s voice. I truly left my heart amongst the pages of Christian’s Freed, and I was barely hanging on at times during the most poignant moments of Christian’s truths. “If you grow up with a wholly negative self-image, thinking you’re some kind of reject, an unlovable savage, you think you deserve to be beaten…Ana, it’s much easier to wear your pain on the outside.” It’s much harder on the inside. Christian Grey gave us such heartfelt revelations, so many new layers were unravelled. So much agony, confusion, self-sabotage, and insecurity yet a feeling of the intense need for certainty in love. Christian Grey, the man scared of human touch, affection, and a questioner of the love he received, desperate for everything that scares him and has scarred him. Unwilling, feeling unworthy and lost when not in control. Two sides of a man desperate to marry the two, but at a loss on the how-to. ‘I can’t do this. I don’t want to think about the past. It’s been. It’s done. It’s too painful.’ Freed was beautiful, poignantly emotional, sexy, fun and so worth the wait. I have my own emotionally vivid memories of scenes from Freed in Ana’s voice which I could not wait to hear in Christian’s. Not only that, but I also needed to both hear and feel Christian’s thoughts and emotions when it came to his family, and woah, at times I had tears rolling down my cheeks! They always say the best comes to those who patiently wait, and every word of that is true when it comes to Freed, Fifty Shades as Told by Christian. It was captivating and pure indulgence for this fangirl. ‘Happiness. It’s a strange and unsettling emotion, one that I’ve felt often enough since meeting Ana. But I’ve always thought of those as fleeting moments, sometimes euphoric, sometimes just pure joy. It’s never been my constant companion. It‘s crept up on me, and now it’s with me, always – but it’s an uneasy feeling, a tightness in my chest. And I know it’s because it could be snatched from me at any moment, and I’d be left devastated.’ What EL James has achieved by writing a trilogy from both Anastasia’s and Christian’s view is quite outstanding. Both have an incredible impact. The first three books were fundamentally Ana’s story, a woman’s journey in a new and dark world of love, heartbreak, and kink. Having to grow up very quickly to fight for the man she wants, whilst finding her place in the world at the same time. A sweet, innocent, and adorably naïve voice turning mature, powerful, and becoming a persistent light in the darkness where Christian Grey lives. The very same books in Christian’s voice felt darker, more fractious, and ultimately so much more heart-breaking. The intensity of soul searching, of forgotten memories, and violence were so powerful and felt quite momentous. Yet these same pages were filled with wonderment and light too, as a man learns what it means to be loved and opens his heart and mind to those who matter as Ana shows him the way. The way home to love and acceptance. What a journey it’s been, I feel quite breathless. Thank you, EL James. Always! ‘My beacon. My dreamcatcher. My love. My life.’ Available to purchase below Amazon US Amazon UK Come and say hi, at: ✲ TotallyBookedBlog ✲ TBB on Facebook ✲ TBB on Instagram ✲ TBB on Twitter ✲ TBB on Pinterest

I have been waiting for this and it did not disappoint at all. I love, love, love, loved this book. Reading Christian side of the story made the books much better then Ana's perspective. There was so much more too the story and I loved every minute of it. There where a lot of questions answered in this book. I really liked this ending better.

And with that my journey with Christian and Anastasia has come to an end. I have enjoyed the entire series. The original series, the movies, and this new round of books from Christian's point of view. It feels a bit sad for it all to be over. I love how even though we've read and watched the previous book and movie, having the ability to be in Mr. Grey's thoughts brings a new, and at times heartbreakingly sweet, view on things. Thanks, EL James it was a wonderful Charlie Tango ride! ~Tanja Follow me on Instagram✿Twitter✿Facebook✿Pinterest✿TikTok

Me on Nov 6, 2020: A Stacey Abrams novel? It could be the word “vote” for 80,000 words and it gets five stars from me. Me in March 2021 when I read the book: It turns out Stacey Abrams can write a DAMN good legal/medical thriller. This is a story about a supreme court with a swing vote, a judge in a coma, and a law clerk-turned legal guardian who is left to solve a mystery that will change the country’s future. This is a brilliant and brainy thriller that involves genetic bioengineering, political prowess, and a lot of chess. But it’s got a story that won’t quit and some awesome characters. Abrams can be a bit verbose at times, but once you get into the groove it’s hard to stop. Thank you to Doubleday books for my advance copy!

this was my first legal thriller and i might need to get into this genre because it was so much FUN! it reminded me of how to get away with murder

Stacey Abrams is a force to contend with. Brilliant, visionary and dedicated to justice, she shines like a brilliant star. This being her debut novel, I assumed her intelligence and political background would play roles, but never fathomed she'd craft a high velocity political crime mystery such as this. Avery Keene is a young, dedicated law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Howard Wynn, the swing vote on countless cases for decades. When he's rushed to the hospital in a coma, the reader is immersed into a labyrinth akin to a Sherlock Holmes plot, filled with ciphers, oddball clues and 'chess moves'. As the judge lies in a coma, Avery learns he's authorized her to be his legal guardian complete with Power of Attorney. Her suitability for this position is questioned by Chief Justice Roseborough as well as the President, though Avery is steadfast. The subplot is focused on an East Indian genetics research firm seeking to merge with an American pharma company with the goal of bringing life changing cures to the world. Behind the scenes President Stokes, a power hungry, deceitful type carries out a plan to block the merger using Avery as one of the pawns. As the reader immerses into the storyworld, Avery partners with Jared, Wynn's estranged son and Noah, Wynn's estate attorney who battle underhanded FBI and DHS agents who are part of President's plot. Littered with crime, deception and chess references, the jigsaw puzzle gains complexity with each chapter. The combination of the author's research and ability to engage the reader bears similarity to Dan Brown, John Grisham and Conan Doyle due to pacing, character depth and plot twists. In addition she demonstrates mastery of momentum which continually builds toward the end. In the Acknowledgements section, she pays tribute to a jurist and two of her sisters of which one is a judge, the other an epidemiologist. Being a progressive politician who's fight for democracy is without compare, its easy to see a comparison of President Stokes to Donald Trump since they both manipulate, cajole and deceive. Put simply, this is well crafted story that will appeal to anyone who appreciates characters, plot and pacing. As someone who rarely hands out 5 star ratings, I'm eager to read her latest.

While Justice Sleeps is a gripping, complexly plotted novel set within the halls of the U.S. Supreme Court and was penned by Stacey Abrams, former member of the Georgia House of Representatives and fervent voting activist; this is her new legal thriller. Avery Keene, a brilliant young law clerk for the legendary Justice Howard Wynn, is doing her best to hold her life together--excelling in an arduous job with the court while also dealing with a troubled family. When the shocking news breaks that Justice Wynn--the cantankerous swing vote on many current high-profile cases coming before the Supreme Court in Washington--has slipped into a coma, Avery's life turns upside down. She is immediately notified that Justice Wynn has left instructions for her to serve as his legal guardian and she will have power of attorney over all of his affairs; naturally, this both antagonises and upsets Wynn’s wife and son. Plunged into an explosive role she never anticipated, Avery finds that Justice Wynn had been secretly researching one of the most controversial cases before the court--a contentious proposed merger between an American biotech company known as American GenWorks and an Indian genetics firm, Avtar, which promises to unleash breathtaking results in the medical field. She also discovers that Wynn suspected a dangerously related conspiracy that infiltrates the highest power corridors of Washington. As political wrangling ensues in Washington to potentially replace the ailing judge, who is apparently suffering from Boursin’s Syndrome and whose life and survival Avery controls, she begins to unravel a carefully constructed, chesslike sequence of clues left behind by the wily Wynn. She comes to see that Wynn had a much more personal stake in the controversial case and realises his complex puzzle will lead her directly into harm's way in order to find the truth. This is a riveting and completely enthralling legal thriller with taut plotting and corrupt politicians and lawyers at the centre of it all. Abrams is a lawyer who studied at Yale hence this is full of gritty realism and authentic depictions of the courts. It moves at a rapid-fire pace, gets the heart-thumping and twisty surprises are in abundance as Abrams cleverly and devilishly pulls you this way then that. Palpable suspense, fluid prose and exhilarating excitement are enough to keep you feverishly turning the pages. A high-octane thriller jammed with legal intrigue, While Justice Sleeps is multilayered and occasionally convoluted, ending in a terrific set-piece legal showdown between Keene and those ranged against her. A cunningly crafted, sophisticated novel, layered with myriad twists and a vibrant cast of characters, and drawing on her astute inside knowledge of the court and political landscape, Abrams shows herself to be not only a force for good in politics and voter fairness but also a major new talent in suspense fiction. Highly recommended.

I'm not the biggest fan of political thrillers but my goodness, Stacey Abrams is an incredible writer (along with being an incredible human being and activist) and to my surprise, I ended up loving this book. The plot: While Justice Sleeps tells the story of Avery Keene, a brilliant clerk to larger-than-life Judge Howard Wynn. Judge Wynn is both loathed and admired in the political world because he's usually the deciding vote in important Supreme Court Cases. When he slips into a coma, to the surprise of everyone, he appoints Avery as his legal guardian and power of attorney. As the media, the FBI, and even the White House are breathing down her neck, she uncovers a series of clues that the judge left behind and what she discovers will change the country forever. I really want someone to adapt the Avery Keene series; maybe AppleTV since they've really been in their political thriller bag. Avery was a fabulous heroine: intelligent, determined yet still vulnerable and loyal (almost to a fault). As a reader, I felt terrible for her when the world was against her and breathed a sigh of relief when she was able to find people who were truly in her corner. Additionally, as a romance reader, I rarely get invested in romantic subplots in other genres, but you can tell that Abrams is a romance reader/writer because the relationship between Avery and Judge Wynn's son Jared was natural, subtle and more importantly, it didn't take away from the rest of the story. It also made sense for the characters. There's nothing more annoying than when an author who clearly doesn't like or respect romance just sticks a random romantic subplot for "reasons." EVERYBODY SAY THANK YOU STACEY ABRAMS, FOR A LOT OF THINGS, BUT ALSO FOR WRITING A GOOD ROMANTIC SUPLOT IN A POLITICAL THRILLER.

Excellent, engrossing thriller with lots of twists and turns. I also enjoyed the author's note at the end, which revealed how long she'd been working on the project and detailed the research assistance she received from her very talented brothers and sisters.

Stacey Abrams is someone I really admire, and when I saw she had written a thriller, I had to read it. I was not disappointed at all, and would highly recommend it – whatever your politics. I had sort of expected it to be anti-Republican, but it was not overtly so. President Stokes was definitely not modelled on Trump – and indeed, it took me a lot of the book to work out whether he was a bad guy or not. There was obviously something suspect going on – but whether or not it was a matter of genuine national security, whether the FBI, CIA, Homeland Security …. were involved, trying to stop terrorists (if so, which terrorists?), playing party politics – or something altogether more sinister – remained to be seen. In the tradition of all top-class thrillers, I was kept guessing. The hero, Avery Keene, was a young female legal clerk, who was thrown into an unholy mess when the Supreme Court judge she worked for fell into a coma, and named her as holding his power of attorney – not his son, not his estranged wife, not another judge. Why? There is a very important (again why?) ruling coming up for the Supreme Court, where Justice Howard Wynn is expected to cast the deciding vote. If he dies – another judge can be appointed. But so long he is in a coma, nothing can be done. By the way, he has an incurable disease, which makes it likely he will not come out of the coma. Avery does not only have the ethical (turn off life-support or not) and politics of the situation to deal with, but family issues too. Her mother is a junkie, always looking for money to feed her habit. And then people connected to Avery and Justice Wynn go missing and/or die. Like Avery, the reader is left floundering in the dark. Justice Wynn is not a sympathetic character. He expects everyone to dance to his tune, regardless of how much his machinations destroy their lives. He could have made things a lot more clear – but instead chose to hide obscure clues in chess games and other esoteric places. Thankfully, Avery finds two people she can trust, to help her. Apart from a very good plot that kept my avid interest throughout, the book was really well written. A couple of the lovely phrases that appealed to me were: ““Such a shame about poor Howard,” offered an eggplant-attired matron of impeccable breeding and questionable chromatic theory.” “Aware that her family ties to the White House faded with each president, she had made ingratiation her blood sport.” The book also raised important questions about the way the USA is governed. I like to think that anyone on the Supreme Court has earned their place there, and will make judgements based on the law and not personal desires or politics. But what should happen if a justice is no longer capable of doing their job. As one character points out, the founding fathers did not know how much or how quickly medicine could advance. Two hundred years ago, a job for life would have had a much more limited term. They also did not know how science could change, or the media – did anyone? “Despite knowing how vulnerable technology can be, bureaucrats placed their faith in the myth of privacy. Their job relied on the fairy tales Americans told themselves about their government, despite ample proof to the contrary. Surveillance. Covert research. Targeted retribution. All disguised by pleasing stories told by men like Vance and President Stokes.” Medical ethics and scientific discoveries play a big part in this story – making for a very thought-provoking – as well as compelling and fascinating – read. “I am suggesting that scientific curiosity may get the better of humanity yet again. As it always has. Oppenheimer wasn’t a pioneer. He was just another scientist afraid to stop thinking.” I received this copy from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own and not influenced by either the author or publisher.

** spoiler alert ** Oh my goodness. I loved this book! Avery is such a badass, and now I really want to read more books from Abrams. I really loved the pace of the book. I didn’t have to agonizingly wait to understand what was actually going on. Everything was revealed at a great time, and it just continued to get interesting and interesting. I know this was fiction, but damn, the U.S. government is really shitty, isn’t it? Anyways, Avery better start a career as a detective because the way she kept figuring out the clues got me so hyped up. The court hearing scene was definitely a favorite. She really showed them who's boss. This book even added some biology in there. I mean, okayyy Abrams, showing off your brain I see. I like how subtle Jared and Avery’s growing love for each other was developed. I’m a sucker for romance but I definitely don’t mind when a book doesn’t have a lot of romance. Besides, this book was about how smart Avery is and it’s so crazy that Justice Wynn saw how smart she was way before she did. The title with its double meaning was perfect. Overall, such a great story! 5 stars.

Favorite book I’ve read all year. A terrific, legal and political thriller. Whodunit. Clues and puzzles. And even some romance. So much fun! Listened via Libby

Listened in one session, my earphone battery died in the crucial last 20' and I ended up stock still sitting in the sun holding my phone tightly for the finale! You could take this out of today's headlines with a little tweaking, fast paced and highly entertaining.

Da Vinci Code meets Big Pharma meets the Supreme Court, with a dash of the Queens Gambit. Avery Keene (who is indeed a very keen young law clerk) is named the legal guardian of her boss and mentor—who happens to be a Supreme Court Justice as a session is coming to an end with several monumental cases coming to the court—when he slips into a coma. Piecing together clues left by the chess-loving, semi-paranoid, incredibly smart Justice, Avery and a few confidantes are in a race against a clock. I loved this story, the complicated puzzle, the characters and their flaws, and most of all I love that this book was written by Stacey Abrams, whose talents know no bounds. Her acknowledgements gave me chills because she leaned on the expertise of her brothers and sisters… this woman is amazing. I’m also encouraged that she noted this is Avery’s debut…hoping for more in a series!

I am in the middle of a reading slump which has lending itself to a reviewing slump! I finished this book weeks ago but have not been inspired to review it . . . or any others I have finished in that time. This is not a reflection on the book, it is just where my head is at right now. This book is another entry in Grisham’s sports series of books. Along with Bleachers, Calico Joe, and Playing for Pizza – this book helps to firmly plant Grisham in a genre other than legal thrillers. I have loved all of this sports books and I think he does a pretty good job with them. In fact, lately I have been kind of lukewarm on his legal dramas, so Sooley is some of his best recent work in my opinion. This time the sport is college basketball and you should give it a try if you are a fan of the sport. It also touches a lot on the situation international refugees go through and the contrast between life in war torn countries and the United States. So, while there is a lot of sports to be enjoyed here, there is also a lot to be learned about the world. If you are just a fan of Grisham’s legal dramas, you may not enjoy this one. But I think it is worth giving it a try no matter what your interests.

Inspired, heart wrenching story of possibility When I first read the summary of the book, I couldn't help but wonder why one of the most heralded legal thriller authors would write about a basketball player from Somalia; but the question was quickly answered. Grisham's experience with pacing and character driven plots is evident as he takes the reader on an impossible journey of a teen boy in a strange country. Living in war torn Somalia, Samuel Sooliemon and his family have become fearless, one of several qualities associated with greatness. Recruited hesitantly by a small US college coach, Soolie's relentless desire to be his best seem fruitless at the first; but with a coach that believes in him, he dedicates himself to the game and soon finds himself in the midst of a frenzy. Over time, Soolie leads them to unimaginable heights while NBA scouts hover. With a coach as an advisor and his roommate's mother as a protector, Soolie achieves what most teens dream about. At its core, its an inspiring story of an unusual boy that never gives up on his dream, and a roommate whose family believes in him. Whether you're a sports fan or not, this one of the most unusual stories Grisham has written and ranks highly with his others.

This is my favorite sports novel from Grisham. The saga of Sooley is at times humorous and heartwarming. There is a good amount of sadness too. The refugee situation in Sudan is an integral piece of the story. If you like basketball and you are looking for a good story, this is your book.

It may benefit with a bit of skimming but the game plays are like listening to a game on radio. It moves along pretty well.

Only John Gresham would have the heart and talent to create this lovely story of a phenom from South Sudan, brought to the U.S. to play basketball while the horrific civil war rages in his home country. In an interview, Gresham reveals that he loved playing the sport while in school, but that this is his first basketball novel. Written to satisfy his "sports itch" after the pandemic closed down The Big Dance last year, how he and his family love college basketball and how he supports UVA despite living in a houseful of Tarheels.

I played basketball in junior high, loved it, hit a growth spurt, had more sprained ankles and jammed fingers than I actually played. But I enjoyed it. This was the story of Samuel Sooleymon from South Sudan who was selected to a team to compete in the United States to get basketball scholarships. The hope was to get a scholarship to a good school and then play in the NBA. The only problem was Samuel (or later Sooley) was not very good. In the end he was not being scouted by anyone, but his sponsor/coach asked his friend to have some faith, watch him, and he will be surprised, because it was not safe for Sooley to go back home in South Sudan. Sooley had determination and practiced every spare minute he had, and it showed. Sooley was redshirted his first year, then came the injuries to the team, and Sooley was allowed to play. And Sooley played!! I think I read this book in about 3 days once I got into it. It is not your usual John Grisham lawyer story, though of course there are a couple sprinkled in. But it is a feel good story of a down-and-out boy who finds fame, and then as usual it comes crashing down. And as usual, Missy needed about 500 tissues in the end.

From the war ravaged badlands of South Sudan to the glitzy world of the NBA draft, Samuel Sooleymon has come a long, long way. With an abundance of God gifted talent and tenacious hard work, Sooley is an instant hit in the College Basketball 🏀 circuit. The NBA draft comes calling! Back home, his family is struggling in a refugee camp, fighting daily for food, water and shelter. Sooley's goal is to bring them all here to the US, whatever be the cost! Please read my detailed review from the link below https://www.aniblogshere.com/book-rev... Do visit🏃🏽, read 📖, like 👍🏼, comment 💭 or share 🚩 🙏🏼🙏🏼 #sooley #johngrisham #basketball #nba #southsudan #bookfan #bookreviewer #bookworm #booklover #booklove #booklovers #bookbuzz #books #bookreview #bookstagram #bookstagrammer #bookblogger #bookblogging #blogger #suspense #book #booksarelife #booksaremagic #bookreviews #bookaddicts #booksarelove #sportsstories #sportsnovel #civilwar #refugeecamp

Thank you Mr Grisham for this beautiful story - I’d like to think it is true. You have outdone yourself as we follow Sooley from the slums of Africa to the pinnacle of the American basketball courts. Hard to remain dry-eyed. Basketball is the only sport I have any knowledge of so I enjoyed all the play-by-play action. It is so well written that you can hear the ball bouncing and the cheers of the crowd. South Sudan is the newest country in the world and one of the top three most dangerous places in Africa. When I read Levison Wood’s walking trek up the Nile I remember he had to bypass The Sudan swamps because of the danger. This is where Sooley was born and raised. What an inspiration he became to young and old alike.

4.5-5 stars. Any Grisham book is an automatic read for me. This one surprisingly took place at a different court. I thought his storytelling was great. I know the subject won’t be for everyone, but I love basketball, especially NCAA, and really enjoyed this rather quick read.

Holy wow. What a CAPTIVATING story by a master story teller! Book hangover is real from this one…I’m a huge college basketball fan, so this one resonated on a totally different level. Read it. 5 Sooleymania stars.

As Grisham comments at the end of this story, he wasn’t very good in sports, but he was good at writing, so he wrote about them. This is the one about basketball. I enjoyed it more than PLAYING FOR PIZZA (football) and BLEACHERS (baseball). Sooley is a sympathetic basketball player from Sudan. His story is awe inspiring and sad. He’s not the best player on the team, but he is the most loved. He is homesick for family and home while living and playing in the USA, but he finds extended family who love him and want to help him. Grisham has written a fantastic story that seems like non-fiction, but it is not. Husband and I listened to the audio version on a long road trip. It was the perfect length, and the narrator’s use of different voices for the characters was spellbinding.

Loved this book, although I am not a basketball fan. An excellent, well written story.

An incredibly moving book about college basketball, the new country of South Sudan, and the dedication of Doctors Without Borders. South Sudan received billions of dollars in aid from the United States and Europe, in addition to the newly discovered oil reserves. Unfortunately, the ruling elite siphoned billions that was stashed in Swiss banks, overseas mansions, and a well-equipment militia. Poor people got poorer, and whole villages were torched and destroyed. The men and boys were killed and the young women raped and tortured. The women and children who were able to escape fled to neighboring countries where some four million were housed in crowded refugee camps. The book also highlights a promising basketball phenom, Sooley. Before his home was destroyed, he was recruited to travel to the United States to get accepted into a college program where he would be trained and educated in preparation for a promising career. Sooley has a meteoric rise in his college basketball career, while continuing his ambitions to rescue his family. I knew about the wonderful work of Doctors Without Borders, but I never know this much about NCAA Basketball. Detailed, interesting, exciting and heartbreaking. As always, Grisham is a masterful storyteller.

This is the second of Grisham's ventures into the world of basketball, and an unforgettable one.When Samuel Sooleymon gets a chance to leave his native South Sudan to play in a basketball game in the United States a whole new world open up for him. While he is gone, though, his village is attacked by rebels and his father is killed and the rest of his family become refugees. Samuel cannot return home so devotes his life to basketball, through a college scholarship and beyond. Along the way we get heartbreaking looks at the refugee camps in Africa and suffer with "Sooley" as he is called, in his helplessness to do anything for them. It's not a happy novel, but a very, very good one.

My husband and I have been printing the March Madness sheets for years and spend the month entertained with college basketball and have moans and groans over our selections and laughs and giggles so this book was right up my alley. (it helps to have a brother that played basketball and several high school friends/boyfriends who played) The story is of course far fetched and has some glaring improbabilities but that is why we read fiction isn't it? I was thoroughly entertained and loved every minute of the read. A great ending always helps.

This rating is for the narrator of the book. He was outstanding! The story itself was a 4 star for me as I could see the end of the story a million miles away. The action of the games left me breathless and missing my own basketball days. The juxtaposition between what Sooley was experiencing and what his family had to endure in the Sudan was heartbreaking. This was a great book. It will leave you chanting “Sooley, Sooley…” along with the crowd. And I HIGHLY recommend the audio!

The story takes place in South Sudan and in the U.S.A. I felt I got insight into life in South Sudan and refugee camps. There was also a lot about basketball which was interesting. The story was very engaging in both settings. I listened to the audio and very much enjoyed the narration. Another great story by Grisham!

I love this series. I enjoy the characters, the conversations and of course the major case that they are working on is always filled with many twists. Looking forward to Book 24.

23rd Midnight is the twenty third book in James Patterson and Maxine Paetro's Women's Murder Club series and I am always excited when a new title in this series comes out as I have really enjoyed them all. This book has the usual murder that Detective Lindsay Boxer has to try and solve along with her colleagues and usually with her 3 best friends Cindy, a journalist, Yuki a prosecutor and Claire, the Chief Medical Examiner who all get involved in one way or another. It's great to see the ongoing character development in the books, and although this is the latest in a long series, a new reader could easily pick it up and read and enjoy as a standalone. You'll soon be wanting to read them all. This book has the usual short sharp chapters that we are used to from James and his co-authors and it very quickly picks up and becomes very exciting. Cindy has just promoting her published her new true crime novel and becomes embroiled when an obsessed fan starts causing problems that mirror the original serial killers actions. Lindsay has to try and catch the criminal. A big thank you to Random House UK, Cornerstone, Century for the opportunity to read and review this book.

Enjoyed the return of these characters.

Love this series have read them up to this one and can't wait to read 24... will this be it and no more im interested to see what will happen in boxers life. Ive been invested since I picked up the first book. Well written as always by one of my favorite authors

I have read all the previous 22 books and this one was great and very exciting. Love all the characters and what they go through. The storyline takes always place in San Francisco. Love that city!

Amazing Read This was an incredible read. This is the twenty-third book of the Women’s Murder Club series. Every book is getting better and better in my opinion. I really love Lindsay Boxer. She has become one of my favourite heroines. In this book, there is a copycat recreating the murders of a famous serial killer from the Women’s Murder Club’s past. Cindy wrote a bestseller about serial killer, Evan Burke and now someone is using the book to recreate the crimes. Lindsay has found a suspect, and must find him before another murder is committed. There was crime, mystery, and some badass moments. I loved the fast pace of the story, and also the twists that unfold in the series are awesome. The ending was fantastic, and I didn't expect it at all. This series reminds me of Criminal Minds, but an all-female version of it. The series about four best friends, who are more like sisters than friends is the best thing ever. We get to see how they are able to overcome anything because of their friendship. The only thing I am sad about is that Yuki never got to meet Jill. I think if all 5 women were in the series, it would have been even better. I am happy that I am now caught up with the series. This series is one of my favourite crime series, and I cannot wait to continue the story. I can't wait to read book 23.5, and I am excited to see what the series has in store for me. 23 1/2 Lies, here I come. Overall, an amazing read.

@jamespattersonbooks was the first author I recommended to people, and when I stumbled onto the Woman's Murder Club Series with @maxinepaetro, I was sold on the series right away! Fast forward to now and the 23rd book in the series, and it still gets better after every book! All four of the Murder club gals usually have their own little story in the story, but this time, it is closer to home than what they would want. This was fast-paced and stressful as hell. Every second of listening to this was incredible and packed with so much tension. Highly recommend this series if you have not yet started it.

** spoiler alert ** This was another great installment of the Women's Murder Club!! This has to be my favorite series written by James Patterson. You can't go wrong with Lindsay, Claire, Yuki and Cindy. Even the side story with Yuki was a nail biter.

OMG this book was so good i can’t remember the last time i read a book in a day but i could not stop This has to be the best women’s club book so far and yes it is the 23rd installment and not boring or mundane like you would think Absolutely love the characters and the way they re evolving I sure hope there is a 24th

So good! This series never has a dull moment. Each book is better and better. Great storyline, had me a little worried. The characters were on point. Loved it!

As ever, this author draws you into a heart pounding adventure from start to finish. Murders are mounting up, seemingly related to Cindy’s book tour, and Yuki is involved in a domestic abuse trial. There is always so much going on as Lyndsey and the team try to solve the murders and tie the puzzle pieces together before more lives are lost, especially when one of their own is in danger. The Womens Murder Club, their partners and colleagues are all compelling characters and each add to the story overall. A highly enjoyable read and definitely to be recommended. I received an ARC of this book from Netgalley but voluntarily leave this review.

The lights go off, the screen fades, all goes black. It’s a blackout. What is lurking in the darkness you might be asking? Keep your eyes closed, hold your breath and pray that you don’t find out. Wow! The 23rd Midnight was hands down one of my favorite reads of this series this far! Hands down a five star read!

'The 23rd Midnight' was a great follow up to a very solid '22 Seconds' novel. I said in my review of that one that I expected it to be more intense from the synopsis. Where that one lacked in some tension, suspense, and intensity - 'The 23rd Midnight' made up for it PLUS some. And appealing to my personal wants, we got a classic "Women's Murder Club" meetup to sift through evidence and bounce ideas around. But this time, Cindy was not there - because it was her they needed to save. Speaking of the Women's Murder Club, it was a good novel for most of them - Lindsay Boxer We got to see a new side of Lindsay. After so many years and so much pain and trauma, she's not quite sure if she wants to continue with her job or move on. If there is a plan for this series to continue, I have to imagine she takes a vacation and comes back ready to take down more criminals. It wouldn't be the same if Lindsay wasn't working cases as a cop. Cindy Thomas Cindy is who this novel revolves around. She's seeing some great success due to her new True Crime novel, but it also puts her life in danger. While she may not have actually appeared in as many scenes as she sometimes does, a good majority of the chapters touched on how the story goes back to her, her novel, and her connection to a psychotic serial killer. Yuki Castellano I love the books in this series that have one of Yuki's court cases as a heavy feature. The chapters are always interesting and keep me turning the page fast to see if she comes out on the victorious side. 'The 23rd Midnight' was full of tension and suspense with Cindy in danger. But Yuki's chapters were almost more gripping to me. Almost. She's a great character and isn't always super involved in the books. It's a treat when she is. Claire Washburn Unfortunately, with so many strong story lines featuring the other three, Claire didn't see as much time in this one. That was the only thing I was bummed about. But, it wouldn't have made sense with the flow of the story to insert her randomly where she wouldn't normally be. A classic, thrilling Women's Murder Club installment. 5/5 Stars

I truly love reading the Women’s Murder Club series. Detective Lindsay Boxer is hot on the trail of a new serial killer; newspaper reporter and up-and-coming author, Cindy Thomas has written a book about a notorious imprisoned-for-life serial killer; top prosecutor Yuki Castellano is working to find a vicious abuser guilty of trying to murder his wife; and medical examiner Claire Washburn has the unenviable task of autopsying some of the serial killer’s victims. Delightfully gruesome book. Loved every page. (I lived on Alamo Square and in Haight-Ashbury in the sixties, and I love reading about San Francisco. It is such a beautiful city.)

Even though I started with this book mid-series, I was pleasantly surprised to find it stood well on its own. While I suspect there's substantial character growth throughout the series, diving into this installment was a gripping experience. Despite some challenging descriptions, particularly involving the baby, the writing was captivating and kept me hooked. I raced through the book in a single day, constantly on edge. An addictive read! A very special thanks to Grand Central Publishing for the complimentary copy.

Alright, for the last 10 or so books I’ve been complaining about how much I can’t stand annoying ass Cindy. Y’all, I take it back. Poor Cindy!! Lord, this was traumatic I really thought we almost lost a member. I typically enjoy the books more when there are multiple cases that are unrelated but this one was a good one. I did suspect from the beginning about who was behind this but I still enjoyed going through each murder and each club. Give me more of this please!

I love this entire Series, for a number of reasons. I enjoy the San Francisco and Marin County backdrop, from the descriptions of the lovely old neighborhoods and coffee houses to the lovely parks and even the traffic! Having been to most of the government buildings, it’s just fun to hear about them from a good distance away. This book might be one of the more gruesome of the series, but certainly is realistic, given some of the local news lately. SGT Boxer is generally front and center with her Women’s Murder Club, but in this story the light is shining on News reporter Cindy Thomas, who has written a book about serial killer Evan Burke. Turns out he’s also a mentor for a man who wants to be the next best killer and he has our beloved team in his sights. This book moves well, the characters continue to grow and we may be starting to see some stress - which would be absolutely true and expected - making me quite interested in seeing where the next book will deal with Joe and Lindsay, and perhaps we might have a wedding… no matter where we go, it’s going to be another great ride in a perennial series loved by so many people! Kudos to one of my favorite Narrators. January LaVoy, IS brilliant in this series. I can not imagine this series without her.

Loved it Really enjoyed this although first one of this series I have read and didn't matter that I hadn't read the others. Great pace, page tuner and very well done. Nice little twist in the tale 😊

Cracking read so fast paced you can't put it down

Gotta love Sampson on a rampage to defend his country and brother!

This is a highly unusual Alex Cross book; makes me wonder if Alex Cross is on his way out and John Sampson is on his way in. This is a big first in the series; Alex Cross was shot at the beginning of the book; and hospitalized in critical condition. John Sampson is left to his own wits to solve the dilemma and get justice! A series of random domestic terrorist attacks have been occurring across the U.S.; now they are heading for the White House. It's up to John to figure out the clues and end the chaos before it's too late for America.

Awesome read

Another classic Cross book with the focus on John Sampson which I enjoyed

The Cross Series has been probably my favorite Patterson series over the years. And with a new collaborator, I was interested to see any differences. But this was WOW. Of course it takes a totally different path, with a focus and story on big John Sampson (Cross’s partner) and his mission to disrupt the coup going on within the government by the Milley’esque “Holy’er than thou” … “my treason is really patriotism” conspirators. I’ll leave it at that. And wish there were more John Sampsons in our law enforcement and not those who take the law into their own hands “for the good of the country”

A very interesting plot to say the least. I assume it was written after the very un-American behaviour on 6 Jan 2021 as a result of the 2020 election. I started the book feeling out of my comfort zone as it was Sampson giving the narrative not Cross. I initially was not enjoying the different narrative, but eventually I came to engage it and by the end I enjoyed Sampson's perspective on what was happening. Certainly different to Cross' normal narrative, but still was full of non-stop action, which is always good. Even though a very difficult, and hopefully fictitious plot to swallow, the book was worth the read.

Another good Alex Cross story however this one was about his brother in arms John Sampson. The story tells the tale of corruption.. no one can be trusted in the world of politics and the upper military.. but thankfully Sampson & FBI guy Ned Mahoney save the day.

I must say James Patterson and Brendan DuBois have written a magnificent roller coaster book worth the read and Alex Cross along with a long time friend Detective John Sampson have their hands full ….. The optics within this story worthy to fans and new comers to alike. Sit back…..enjoy the ride!

Alex Cross is BACK! Well, at least a fantastic, page-turning, three hours past my bedtime to finish it story with Big John Sampson taking the lead role. And yet…certainly pause for contemplation given the ‘nearly’ invisible line between our current reality and fiction the storyline highlights.

This series NEVER disappoints!

This book features a plot to overthrow the US government. Alex Cross is out of commission so it’s John Sampson to the rescue.

WOW What a book! Very intriguing and quite a page-turner!

Just finished all 32 of the James Patterson books in the Alex Cross Series! What a ride! Hoping the upcoming network adaptation will be just as thrilling!

Current & Scary Thought provoking narrative on the current state of our nation and how quickly our way of life could devolve into anarchy. A must read for any concerned american.

Loved it!

I did not want to put this one down! Nuff said!

Wow! Excellent book! I couldn't put it down.

Excellent from start to end

This book was insane! Cross’s journey through the book keeps the reader intrigued. The only thing better is Sampson’s desire and mission to carry out revenge. Fast paced and action filled! Loved it!

I enjoyed this one a lot! I know it was more of a john sampson book than alex cross but still enjoyable. Can’t wait until the next one!

✨ Haunting, heartfelt, and impossible to put down! ✨ The Mirror pulled me even deeper into the spellbinding world of The Lost Bride Trilogy. Nora Roberts strikes gold once again with a perfect blend of suspense, humor, romance, and supernatural mystery 👻📖. The spirits in this story don’t just haunt the halls... they have personality and presence, making them just as compelling as the living characters. One line that truly stuck with me was: “Every glance into the mirror was a door. You could never know if it would open to something haunting, something heartbreaking, or maybe something you needed to see.” 🪞💔 That quote perfectly captures the emotional pull of this book. I couldn’t stop turning the pages, and now I’m officially counting down the days until Book 3 releases in November 2025 ⏳✨. If you haven’t started this trilogy yet, do it - you’re in for a chillingly good time. ❄️📚

The Mirror is book 2 in the Lost Bride Trilogy by Nora Roberts. I've been waiting for this book since I finished the first book, The Inheritance. Sonya MacTavish inherits a huge mansion in Maine in book 1 and has no idea that the house comes with many guests. The guests are ghosts and the mansion is haunted. Luckily, most of the ghosts are friendly and even helpful. One picks the perfect music for any occasion that arises while another cleans up, makes the bed, picks outfits to wear, etc. I wish I had a ghost like that! Sonya and her best friend Cleo decide to move to the mansion permanently and work from home. Cleo is an artist and Sonya does website design and marketing design for companies. She's recently left a firm in Boston and is on her own for the first time. Sonya is in a relationship with Trey, the son of the man who came and told her about her inheritance. They met while he was doing some work on the house before Sonya arrived, They've been together ever since. His best friend, Owen, has been with Cleo for almost as long. Trey is a lawyer like his father and Owen is a boat builder. The four of them spend a lot of time together at the mansion and are all aware of the doors that slam, the voices that arise, the music that plays, the little boy that comes to play fetch with the dog, and the mirror that appears at times. Owen is Sonya's cousin and at the end of book 1 they went through the mirror and were in another time. Book 2 picks up right where Book 1 left off and it's pure magic. When Sonya and Owen go through it they see a bride murdered on her wedding day and her wedding ring taken off her finger by Dobbs, the bad witch. Dobbs is the dangerous witch who haunts the mansion. This mansion has been the place of horrors. Seven brides in total have lost their lives here and Dobbs was responsible for all of their deaths! She wears their wedding rings as badges of honor on her fingers. Dobbs is pure evil and doesn't want Sonya and Cleo living happily in the mansion. She thinks it belongs to her even though she's dead! Sonya continues to be drawn to the mirror when it appears and has little control over her feelings. She always goes through the mirror and witnesses another bride's death. Dobbs has put a curse on the mansion and Sonya, Cleo, Trey, and Owen must figure out how to break the curse! Sonya thinks it involves getting the brides rings back, but how? Dobbs wears them proudly. How can she get them back? Sit back, relax, and be taken away for awhile by The Mirror. I absolutely love this series and can't wait for book 3 in the trilogy! Nora Roberts has created a story that makes you want to be in the mansion, help break the curse, and see happiness for the characters we've come to love! I rate The Mirror 5 stars with my highest recommendation. I'd like to thank NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for an advanced copy of The Mirror in exchange for a fair review. The Mirror is available now and should not be missed. I recommend you start with The Inheritance if you haven't read that yet. I hope Nora Roberts writes fast as I can't wait for book 3! #TheMirror

A wonderful second book in The Lost Bride trilogy! A novel that has it all - historical fiction, historical thriller, contemporary fiction, mystery and fantasy. Inheritance (the first book in the trilogy) leaves us with quite a cliff hangar at the end and The Mirror picks up right where it left off. A captivating story of multiple weddings performed at Lost Brides Manor. Seven brides marry and soon after die under very frightening circumstances. Returning main characters work together to try to break the centuries old curse. A constantly evolving plot leads to a very compelling read! Thank you to NetGalley and Macmillan Audio for an advanced copy of this audiobook in return for my honest review.

I received an advance digital copy of this novel from the publisher, St. Martin’s Press, via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Inheritance was one of my favorite books of 2023, and it ended on a major cliffhanger. So when I was offered an advance digital copy of The Mirror, which was quite possibly my most anticipated read of 2024, I couldn’t hit the download button fast enough. And I loved every single page. There’s not a single thing I would change about The Mirror, except for the fact that I have to wait over a year to see how the story ends. Thankfully, our story picks up exactly where Inheritance left off. Because of that, there’s not a ton I can say about the plot. What I can do is offer a brief synopsis of Inheritance. Our main character, Sonja, is watching her life unravel. Right after we meet her, she finds her fiancé in bed with one of her bridesmaids—who also happens to be her cousin. From there, she has to deal with throwing him out, cancelling the wedding, and drama at her job, as both she and the ex-fiancé work for the same graphic design firm. In the wake of all of this, an additional piece of drama completely upends her life. It turns out her deceased father was a twin, and that the uncle she never knew has left her Lost Bride Manor, a massive mansion on the coast. She takes a chance and moves in, only to find that the house isn’t empty. It’s insanely haunted. Most of the ghosts are helpful and friendly, but there’s one that will stop at nothing to drive Sonja away. There’s a mystery to solve, a romance to be had, and some truly fantastic friendships to be found within the book, as well. There’s not a ton of forward momentum to the plot in The Mirror, but I didn’t care. It was never, ever boring. Nora weaves a spell in her portrayal of the everyday; even the mundane is magical in her hands. This is one of the best examples of a slice-of-life story I’ve read in recent years. It gives us a ton of character development in Sonja, as well as in her best friend Cleo, who I absolutely adore; Trey, Sonja’s love interest on of the steadiest, sweetest men in Nora’s vast back catalogue of romantic leads; and Owen, Trey’s best friend and Sonja’s cousin she didn’t know about until moving to the Manor. I love every single member of this inner circle of the cast with all my heart. They’re just a wonderful group, and I love the many bonds between them. (Also, can I just say that Cleo, Owen, and Cleo’s grandma are some of the most naturally, effortlessly sexy characters I’ve encountered in any book?) Then there are the other two main groups of characters: the pets, who all somehow resemble their humans in personality; and the ghosts, who are an eclectic and by-and-large charming bunch, with one glaring exception. I’m not a big crier as I read, but I had to put this book down multiple times because I couldn’t see the words. Sometimes the tears were from sorrow, shared with one of the characters. But more, they were from sheer sweetness, from scenes that made my heart ache in the best of ways. Nora has a way of bringing out the emotions in me, and I’m not sure she’s ever exemplified that more than in the last 10% of this book. Let’s talk about the bookends of the story: the prologue and the final chapter. Nora’s prologues are always exceptional. They plunge us into the tone and atmosphere of the story to come, but they’re also different stylistically than the rest of the book. This one in particular was musical, moody, darkly whimsical. I was instantly transported and drawn in. And then there’s the last chapter. That ending, man. What is up with Nora’s endings in recent years?! They leave you desperate for the next book. Which is all well and good when you actually have the next book in hand. But when you have to wait a year? It’s torture! But it’s torture of the best kind. It guarantees that I’ll be thinking about this book for months to come, and will be reading the last installment as soon as I can get my hands on it. One of my dreams when I first started reviewing books in 2016 was to, someday, be able to read Nora Roberts books before they were published. It seemed like such a lofty goal to me, but she’s one of my absolute favorite authors, a favorite I share with my mom, my grandma, and my brother. If I could get anything out of reviewing books, that’s what I hoped for. Lo and behold, my dream has become reality. Every time I get one of her books early, it feels like the best Christmas ever. I’m so thankful to have gotten to read The Mirror early, and am even more thankful that I loved it so much. Nora Roberts is a master of her craft, and I can’t wait to see how she brings this story to a close in 2025! Expected publication: November 19th, 2024

This was a great story about a woman inheriting an eerie mansion and going back in time. It held my attention from start to finish and was better than the first. I can’t wait to read the next in the series. Thanks NetGalley and St. Martins Press for the chance to read this book!

Holy Cow! So many authors use the second book in a trilogy as filler, but not Nora! She uses it to continue the story. And what a story! Full of ghosts and despair with bright moments of pure thrilling happiness.

The Mirror by Nora Roberts is book 2 of the lost bride trilogy. Sonya has settled into her mansion with ease but the fact it is haunted is something she wasn’t expecting. After she passes through a mirror and it shows her the murder of a bride, she begins to see that the house is cursed and only she can break it and let all the dead’s brides move on. The family curse is an old one and one ghost in particular isn’t happy that Sonya is there. Oohh it was so good! Book 1 was so amazing I couldn’t put it down! Her romance with Trey is beginning to really take off and I love that he understands what is going on with the house and is happy to be there for her. The supernatural elements to the book are top notch! I love that most of the ghosts love having her there and she is respectful to them. Her friendship with Cleo is lovely and their personalities really balance each other out. The story built more on Sonya building her business and getting more comfortable in the house and less on the spooky stuff which while entertaining, wasn’t what I wanted! I need more about the house and history and don’t get me wrong, it did give us a lot of stuff to ponder, it still left us on a cliffhanger… thank goodness the next one is the end because my heart cannot take it! 4.5 stars! Brilliant so brilliant. Thank you @stmartinspress for my gifted ebook and audio!

The Mirror picks up where the Inheritance left off, and it still ended with a cliffhanger! Clover is back with her impeccable taste in music. Sonya, Cleo, Owen, and Tre learn more about how the curse came to be. Sonya is a strong heroine, and there were scenes where I enjoyed her growth. Tre is a fantastic hero and how he gave Sonya room to do what she needed to do, but was there for her. The friendships between the quartet felt very much like a found family. And another cliffhanger! I guess I have to wait another year to get an ending.

Omg! I need the sequel NOW!!

fuck all yall icebreaker haters fr lol. this was EXCELLENT!

The Maple Hills series keeps growing on me as the author delivers an even better new book that I fell hard for! I've had a soft spot for my sweet boy Henry since the series began, and as soon as I received my ARC, I was over the moon. But expressing excitement at work has its consequences—like when colleagues walk in unannounced and catch you mid-handspring, causing you to lose balance, hit your knee on your favorite rolling chair, and land on the floor in a split! No exaggeration, something close to that happened to me. But it was totally worth it to get an ARC of one of the most anticipated romances of the year. Firstly, the author's heartfelt, genuine, and honest letter at the beginning truly warmed my heart and increased my interest! Her creative writing has reached new heights with each book. Her connection with her true feelings also enhances her character development, making it easy for readers to engage with each character, embracing their flaws, mistakes, eccentricities, and unique antics. In this novel, we not only witness Henry’s character evolving throughout three books but also see a perfect depiction of the author’s blossoming creativity. She gives us unforgettable, easy-to-love characters, each with a well-developed voice. Henry and Halle are the best quirky, one-of-a-kind couple I've rooted for! I loved their slow-burn friends-to-lovers story: how they work on themselves, learn to communicate honestly, and form meaningful relationships, leaving behind their flaws. Their meet-cute happens when Henry accompanies Aurora to her book club meeting to choose leadership books to become a great hockey captain, a consuming job he pours his soul into. Instead of picking a book, he crashes the book club to devour the cookies made by Halle Jacobs: an overachiever, the sweetest person, who struggles with saying “no” to anyone. Henry is impressed not only by her baking skills but also by this pretty, quirky, sweet woman. He discovers she can help him with a class he's struggling in, using her unique teaching technique that worked wonders for her sister Gigi, who also has ADHD. Henry wants to return the favor to Halle, who recently broke up with her egotistical boyfriend Will, a hockey player who gaslighted her into thinking little of herself. When Halle rejected sex, Will ended things. Henry knows Will is a douchebag and that Halle never loved him. He also learns that when they broke up, Halle lost her mutual friends, making her more insecure. She’s always put others first, thanks to her overbearing mother who dumped all family problems on her. For the first time, Halle decides to do something for herself by joining a writing competition that offers a free course in NYC as a reward. This means she has to write the romance novel she’s dreamed of but postponed due to her responsibilities and people-pleasing nature. However, when she sits down to write, she’s blocked because of her lack of romantic experience. Henry finds a way to help by offering to date her without crossing friend-zone boundaries, to help her break her writer's block. Halle agrees, and their "dating project" helps both of them break down their walls, exploring their true selves together. Halle starts writing, and the words flow onto the screen. But they had one rule: Halle couldn’t fall in love with Henry. She was sure she wouldn't, but what if their friendship turns into something more? What if Henry starts feeling the same way, feeling unhappy when other guys flirt with her? What if they abandon the rule book and take a chance on happiness together? Overall, this is my favorite book in the series, earning five blazing hockey, quirky lovers stars! I also enjoyed the cameos of my favorite characters and seeing how their stories evolved. This is a must-read, one of the most unputdownable, sweet, and sexy reads of the year that I highly recommend! Many thanks to NetGalley and Atria Books for providing me this fantastic ARC, which made me cry and dance with happiness. I highly appreciate it in exchange for my honest thoughts. medium blog instagram facebook twitter

omg my dayssss this book is perfect like truly truly i love it so so much, hannah outdid herself yet again

I’m so sad I finished this book! I need more Halle x Henry content 😭💗

♾️⭐️!!! If you were to ask me how much I loved this book, I wouldn't be able to tell you in words. This was incredible. Absolutely incredible. I am so so happy that Taylor convinced me to continue this series or I wouldn't have found this masterpiece. There was just so much to love about this book. The biggest thing I loved about this were the characters. This entire series holds such a high place in found family, especially this one. Halle's struggles from beginning to end were so real and raw and shaped so much of her self-love journey. The things she would do for Henry from acquaintances to friends to lovers was just so. So. Beautiful. She starts off as being this lonely introvert who lacks self confidence and is a very big people pleaser, but soon learns her self-worth through her friendship with Henry. Henry himself was a shining STAR in this book. It's clearly stated that he is not diagnosed neurodivergent, but as I was reading this, I couldn't help but relate to the fact that he had always felt different and so had I. I could relate to so much of him and Halle, personality wise and self struggles. Henry was so gentle and patient with Halle and strong and assertive when he needed to me. He was the perfect mix of everything and their chemistry was just off the charts. It stemmed from true connections and real feelings that you don't get to see in a lot of books. The side characters and basically the entire Maple Hills friend group were so funny and added so much love and character and banter to the story; these people are true gems. I thought the plot of Halle's writing and Henry's art and hockey was a nice touch, as it added more depth and realness to these characters. Overall, this book made me laugh and cry but in the best ways possible. This is one of those books that are going to stick with me and I will remember it for years to come. Hannah Grace, I don't know what you did to make this book so magical, but if you continue to write and come up with stories like this, I will be your number 1 fan. Loved loved loved this book. 💜 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ So so SO excited to read this!! Taylor, I'm reading this one for you cause of how much you loved it (and because of how much I loved Wildfire) 🤌🏼💜

HAPPY RELEASE DAY BESTIES An easy 5 stars. I don't think I have ever felt so seen with a character than I have with Henry. It brings me immense joy to read a story about an individual whose brain works in such a similar way to mine. Henry's portrayed, undiagnosed neurodivergence is a very unrepresented trope in literature, and is sadly the reality for a lot of people. I enjoyed seeing him grow and deal with his emotions in ways I could relate to and adore Halle for everything she did to help Henry. Although this book deals with emotional circumstances and situations, above all else, this book is funny . I honestly wish I could share with you some of the unhinged text messages I sent to my friend at some points whilst reading this. The banter is on point and Henry is now a certified funny dude. I will defend Halle and Henry with my life, they are now one of my book favourite couples. 'Bark at him.' The book follows Henry and Halle as they navigate recent changes to their lives. Henry, the new Maple Hills Hockey Captain, and Halle, recently single and attempting to put herself first, meet unexpectedly at a Book Club Halle is running (I am crediting Aurora for this meet cute). The pair become quick friends as Halle tutors Henry in a class he is struggling with, and Henry promises to give Halle 'experiences' for the aspiring author to write about. Neither of the two expect to fall in love. Halle is a self-described people pleaser, it was a delight watching Henry bring her out of her shell and Halle fill Henry with confidence he struggled to retain. As this book is a friends to lovers slow burn there is not a significant amount of 'spice' in the book, I found this to be refreshing and fitting for the characters and it really helped develop the emotional depth of the pairs connection. Before anyone asks, yes we get cameo's from our favourites, and yes, JJ is as funny as ever. Tropes/Microtropes: 📣Good communication 👩‍❤️‍👨Friends to Lovers 🔥Slow Burn 💕Dating Lessons 📚Tutoring 👯‍♀️Halle is an Eldest Daughter 🚪Open door ------------------- Rtc I need 2-3 working days to recover that was incredible I just got an arc for this book so see you all when I've devoured it in one night.

This review is coming from someone who found the previous two books in this series, Icebreaker and Wildfire mid at best. I read Icebreaker (the indie version) earlier this year and immediately after I closed the book, I stopped thinking about it. I really liked Henry, but after writing my review for Icebreaker, I completely forgot he existed. Since then, I recently read Wildfire last week and Henry appeared again! I didn't care for him as much in book two as I did in book one, but once again the book was closed and I didn't think about the Maple Hills series ever again. At this point, I assumed Grace would just be an author I read knowing the books are mid, but having a cute time anyway. Daydream proved me wrong. I received a digital advanced reader's copy of this book via Edelweiss since I am a bookseller at Barnes & Noble! I decided to download this because I wasn't sure the series was worth continuing physically, but I will now be sat for every installment. Daydream follows Grace's fan-favorite character, Henry, who is now the reluctant captain of Maple Hill's hockey team. Henry is struggling in one of his classes and can't figure out how the previous captain juggled it all, so he heads to the bookstore in search of leadership books. Instead, his heart leads him to crash a book club when he spots cookies. There he discovers Halle. Halle is newly single and is finally trying to live her life and become an author. When she realizes she hasn't lived 'enough' to write anything, they come up with an arrangement. Halle will tutor Henry so he doesn't fail and Henry will be the (stand-in) boyfriend Halle deserves. I love Henry. In the first two books, I thought he was sweet, but I didn't care for him the way everyone else who loves this series does and that's definitely because I found this series lackluster. However, in this book, he was THE BEST. A perfect male love interest. He was witty, charming, and hilarious without even trying. Henry is neurodivergent 'coded' as Grace describes and perhaps that is why I connected to him. I was giggling OUT LOUD and squirming in my bed as I read this book! I would literally repeat some of his lines because I knew he said it with the straightest and most deadpan face. He was a FLIRT and a good one at that. Personally, this was also the first book where the hockey teammates really shined. There are scenes where they're texting or just chatting with Henry and I just started CACKLING and highlighting the exchange so I could come and read them later whenever I want a quick giggle. They are GREAT teammates and extremely funny. Daydream also felt like the first of Grace's books that had a plot. I found Icebreaker to be pretty plotless and mostly character-driven and when I finally got around to Wildfire it had more plot, but still felt very character-focused. Daydream finally felt like a romance book I'd pick up. The arrangement was really cute! I wouldn't consider it fake-dating, but it's the same concept that Lara Jean and Peter have in To All the Boys I've Loved Before. I also think this is the least smut-heavy book of Grace's. Icebreaker was A LOT for a contemporary romance book. to me, and Wildfire wasn't too bad but they were AT IT. In Daydream there is still spice, but it's very short and not as descriptive as the other two. If you read these books for that aspect, you may be disappointed. I overall loved this one. Henry and Halle really pay attention to each other and I LOVE THAT. I also appreciate that this series picks up around the same time the other one left off and that we see so many glimpses of previous couples! The struggles those couples go through in their own books are still hashed out in this one and I really liked that Grace didn't just brush the characters aside once their respective books were over. My favorite parts of this book? The text exchanges between Henry and his teammates and the Henry scene with the voice recorder... IF YOU KNOW, YOU KNOW. I was GAGGED. That is a MAN who knows his lady. Overall, I'm so thankful I gave this book a shot. If you're like me and you didn't care for the first two books, I'd say Daydream is worth checking out. It is SO good. I was addicted and stayed up until 1 am to finish it on a WORK DAY. The sacrifices I make... (This title is set to release on August 27, 2024, from Atria Books. Thank you!)

this book was written for the acts of service girlies

12/4/23 Letting y’all know from now that Henry has been mine since book 1 so back off bishes 🤺🤺🤺🤺 7/5/24 statement above still stands. Henry is MINE AND MINE ONLY BCUZ HOLY CRAP WAS HE MANLYYY MAN😫🫶

these are probably two of the most emotionally mature people and i fear i cannot relate LMAO. need a man with two moms cuz henry was raised RIGHT!!!!!

5 stars!! “The best kind of love doesn’t happen on moonlit walks and romantic vacations. It happens in between the folds of everyday life. It’s not grand gestures that show how you feel, it’s all the little secret things you do to make her life better that you never tell her about.” You guys do not know how excited I am to write this review because this book meant so much to me and I honestly didnt think a book could mean so much to someone until I read this 🥺 It was so beautifully written, with such emotion, Only one book has managed to make me cry (As long as the lemon trees grow") while this one did not make me sob, It brought me so close to it when I read the epilogue because it was perfect 🙂‍↕️✋🏻 I could have binged this book in one sitting because I was literally free but I was so attached to these characters that I was delaying an inevitable goodbye which hit me so hard because within a span of 400 pages, they gave me so much and took it all away as I closed the book 😔✋🏻 Reading this book was such a serene experience, makes me want to read every Abby book out there because this was fucking beautiful. I have never in my life read a book filled with so much feeling, such perfect representation of guilt, self-hate, anxiety and neglect as this 😮‍💨 This book perfectly captures gut-wrenching moments mixed with feel-good, heartfelt moments, written with so much emotion that it honestly felt like I was experiencing all this in real life with them with me because there is no way a book can have me on the verge of tears imagining them sitting together as they laugh and live a happy life or make me feel so angry at a character for treating her daughter so bad and I can not stress on how the slow burn made me feel AHHH!! I wanted everything and it eventually gave me everything 😭. The writing was simply breathtaking, it reminded me so much of Emily Henry because usually her books are the type to make me feel this way. The way it described love is gonna make you believe in it 🩷 I feel like another way to look at why this book is so perfect for us is because we had unbelievably high expectations like you do not know how high are expectations were, we singlehandedly believed that this would be our summer read and the anticipation that led to this book because were waiting to read it in June but my copy took a month to arrive and then one thing led to another and before we knew it, and we learned that you need to read the first two books (not true, this could be read as a stand alone) 😭😭 but for a better experience we did and we really enjoyed these two but they can not be compared to this masterpiece. It was everything, it managed to exceed everyone of our expectations and we loved every second of it 😌 This showed how good of a book this was. The characters in this book were so fucking precious 🥹. I wanted hug all of them because they all deserved so much better than what they got, We follow two characters Emma and Justin who meet over a twitter thread and having similar relationship problems enter a fling 'Just for the summer' and one thing leads to another and to know more you would have to read this book because so much happens and I am still stuck in those moments 😔😮‍💨✋🏻 “You're not asking too much," he said. "You were just asking the wrong person. Ask me instead.” Justin was the epitome of 'If he wanted to he would' because he did!! 😌 I love how good Abby Jimenez's men are. All of them are literally green flags. He was everything that you would look for a man. That man was the standard because no one has ever put themselves out that much for anyone, he was fully committed, the way he comforted and understood Emma's trauma and pain and tried to give her time and be there for her was so precious for me because this should be the bare minimum tbh these days, he did all this while struggling himself with his mom going to jail and him having to take care of his family, all of it put together complimented the book well. I mean how can you not love him, he's 6ft, charming, charismatic, funny and has dimples + is a software engineer and uses his skills to make fun things for his gf 🤭. I love, love, loved the effort that he put into this relationship and I also love the found family aspect that we got because of him, this whole series tying up to this moment felt like a massive found family and I was in love with it. “In a world where you can choose anger or empathy, always choose empathy,” Emma was such a strong character tbh because it's so hard to find books without any annoying female characters and I was so happy when I found Emma to be so realistic and relatable 😭 I wont agree with anyone saying Emma didn't deal with anything in a mature way-✋🏻 Live with a mother who abandons you and neglects you and then judge her✋🏻. Emma was so cute, I loved her and I literally grew so close to her and so fond of her that everything that came rolling down on her made me so sad and angry. I loved the way her character looked at the world, where she would look at things with more empathy and would encourage people to do that as well. People like her are a gem and should be protected at all costs 🩷 I hated Emma's mother sm 😡 she made me furious because what she did was unforgivable!! to think that Emma could have gotten so much love and such a nice past- but she didn't because Amber the fucking bitch was to selfish to do that, she would abandon her and ruin her life, would make her feel like shit and would not care for her or more or less pay attention to her 💔 Especially chapter 41 where she talks to him (yk who) and he tells her about his past and she thinks that's it could've been for her. “Maybe home isn’t a place. Maybe it’s a person.” Maddy is the friend we alll want and I am so happy and thankful to god for giving me friends like her because she was perfect. She understood Emma so well, gave her reality checks and supported her, helped Justin figure her out and overall I just loved how she was there for her always. I also loved Emma's relationship with Justin's brother and I liked how Justin and Emma rekindled because of them<333 “What are you thinking?” I asked. He didn’t answer for a long moment. When he did, he did it with his eyes closed. “All I ever think about is you.” The romance was everything that I ever wanted. It was everything. I loved it so much that I literally have no words to describe it, it made me feel every emotion that is out there to exist 🥹 Justin and Emma were made for each other, it was everything that I was looking for in a moment, there banter alone was so well done and their chemistry was perfect tbh. Their domestic scenes had me swooning 😮‍💨 where they would cook together and help the kids and I loved how she would just extend her trip. That first kiss scene literally gave me and Emma both butterflies, it was so well done. Although it's supposed to be a fling but there's so much slow burn and angst and tension filled in this book 🥵 The perfect balance of everything. Like its the perfect fucking combo for everyone out there. I genuinely would read it every year/ every summer. Scenes that I absolutely loved: 1, Justin making Emma pre-date questionnaires and giving her invitations 🤭 2, the whole toilet king banter 😭✋🏻 3, Dual pov 🙂‍↕️ 4, The confrontation between Emma and her mother 🥺 5, Chapter 40 😨 6, Justin paddle boating his way through to get on an island just because Emma called him and told him that she was sick 🥹 7, The airport hotel scene between Maddy and Emma 🫂 8, Sarah emergency contact list scene + JustinEmma domestic scenes 🩷 9, Justin and Emma on the date where Leigh and his mom crash with them 🤣 10, the first and the last chapter 🩷🫂 “The moment Emma came into view, my entire world slipped into slow motion. My brain took a screenshot. I felt the moment freeze and save. She was beautiful.” The plot (Spoilers will be mentioned) started off so cute with the whole fling and it served well for their banter and chemistry and I was excited to see where all of it would go tbh because I wanted to see how all of it would end and oh my god that plot twist that came and hit us?? like me and Roxy were shooketh like we could have figured this out so fast but we were so blind like we were actually so blind and Jimenez did such a mega job keeping us distracted with Justin and Emma that we didnt even figure out the elephant in the room SPOILERS umm chapter 40?? Daniel and Emma being siblings?? I felt so bad for her when Daniel and her talked and Amber was litr mentioned + Neil was right there HOW did we not notice him LMAOO. anyways I liked how Daniel and Emma got their good moments and she had a better life and found someone to love just because of a summer fling SPOILERS END Overall, an amazing read!! I went in with extremely high expectations and read every single word there was to read!! Would definitely recommend! Some of the quotes that I loved; “The love stories sold us the wrong thing. The best kind of love doesn’t happen on moonlit walks and romantic vacations. It happens in between the folds of everyday life. It’s not grand gestures that show how you feel, it’s all the little secret things you do to make her life better that you never tell her about. Taking the end piece of the bread at breakfast so she can have the last middle piece for her sandwich when you pack her lunch. Making sure her car always has gas so she never has to stop at the pump. Telling her you’re not cold and to take your jacket when you are in fact, very, very cold. It’s watching TV on a rainy Sunday while you’re doing laundry and turning her light off when she’s fallen asleep reading. Sharing pizza crusts and laughing about something the kids did and taking care of each other when you’re sick. It isn’t glamorous, it isn’t all butterflies and stars in your eyes. It’s real. This is the kind of love that forever is made of. Because if it’s this good when life is draining and mundane and hard, think of how wonderful it will be when the love songs are playing and the moon is out.” . “Sometimes the best way to show love or be kind to someone is to meet them where they are.” . “Unhealed trauma is a crack. And all the little hard things that trickle into it that would have rolled off someone else, settle. Then when life gets cold, that crack gets bigger, longer, deeper. It makes new breaks. You don’t know how broken she was or what she was trying to do to fill those cracks. Being broken is not an excuse for bad behavior, you still have to make good choices and do the right thing. But it can be the reason. And sometimes understanding the reason can be what helps you heal.” . “Sometimes I feel like the seasons could come and go and come and go, a hundred years could pass, a thousand, the ground could collapse under us, this house could crumble and go back to the earth, and we would still be standing here frozen in time, because every second I’m with you is eternal. I’ve never felt anything like it.” . “Because when you’re in love, you do hard things.” . “I’ve been waiting my whole life to feel like this and I thought it was a curse that nobody else ever worked out. But it wasn’t. It’s just that they weren’t you.” . “To me, love meant you stayed. But now I understood that love sometimes means you let someone go.” . “This is the thing nobody tells you about The One. How they’re timeless. How the moment they pop up again you’re right back in it, right where you left off.” . “Tell me your day today from start to finish.” ____ This book fucking ruined me Easily my favourite book of the year 😭 ___ In Roxy's wise words "This better be revolutionary‼️" •Buddy reading with Roxy __ Please, please, please be THE summer romance book. I have invested a lot in you! 😤

Oh boy! Too many words come to mind at once, creating a huge cacophony. They're not enough to express how much I loved this book. Great, brilliant, adorable words aren't doing justice for this most poignant book, and even the best couple and best book boyfriend (OMG: don’t you think Justin is like cinnamon rolls meets mud pie? This character completely changed my perspective about the name, although I still think both Justin Bieber and Justin Timberlake are rubbing me the wrong way) created by Abby Jimenez. I used to think “Part of Your World” was her best work, but “Just for the Summer” exceeded it with Toilet King references, fantastic dating options, so many ugly cries, and sweetest, sighing, swoon-smile-repeat moments blended in heavy triggering subjects that are handled with care and in a realistic way, including PTSD, panic attacks, death, child neglect, dysfunctional family, and mental health issues. The witty and sweet dialogues, catchy banters, physical attraction, and emotional intimacy, along with the perfect chemistry between Emma and Justin, are pure perfection! Even though they met through a Reddit thread that turned into humorous messages and sweet phone calls during the hardest times of their lives, their blooming friendship and curse-breaking designated dates—including four dates, one kiss, and a breakup—are a scenario doomed to fail when the attraction hits the roof. Another best part of the book is seeing cameos from the “Part of Your World” universe. Seeing those favorite characters in this book made me smile a lot. Let’s take a closer look at the plot: The book opens with a laugh-out-loud “Am I the asshole?” Reddit thread written by Justin, a cute, caring 29-year-old engineer who sees his situation as a good luck charm, meaning each woman he dates finds their significant other immediately after their breakup, and they even invite him to their weddings. Emma, a 28-year-old traveling nurse, reads this thread during her lunch break with her bestie Maddie, and she decides to DM the guy because she’s also the good luck charm that every man she dates marries immediately after the breakup. Justin decides to write her back, which turns into very entertaining correspondences. A few days later, they start talking on the phone, and eventually Justin comes up with an interesting offer: if they date each other and break up, they can also break the curse and have a chance to find their soulmates. Emma finds this plan unreasonable at first. She and Maddy had already decided to fly to Hawaii for their rest residence, but as long as she spends more time with Justin on the phone, she decides to change her plans and rent a cozy cottage in Minnesota for only six weeks to help her realize their date plan. She even plays the guilt card to convince Maddy. The plan is simple: they’ll date only for a few weeks, kiss each other goodbye, and ride off into the sunset with their own future soulmates. But when sparks start flying around them and their first meeting turns into being hit by a love truck, the detailed plans, which included more surveys and questionnaires, are fated to fail. Especially when both of them struggle with unexpected mommy-related family issues, which push them toward each other, and Emma, who resists taking people into her heart, finds herself letting not only Justin but his entire family in. Could she learn to set roots somewhere? Could she learn to dissect the barriers to make herself small and open her heart fully to love and be cherished in return? Overall: three words, “I loved it,” and two more words, “read it”! This is one of the best romance novels of the year, and don’t you dare miss it! Oh boy, I couldn’t tell you how much I appreciate this digital reviewer copy I received and how thankful I am to NetGalley and Forever (Grand Central Publishing) for sending me this ARC copy in exchange for my honest review. And thanks a lot to Abby Jimenez for writing this book, lighting up my mood, making me laugh till my stomach aches, and making me cry till I had the best raccoon makeup. Follow me on medium.com to read my articles about books, movies, streaming series, astrology: medium.com instagram facebook twitter<

WOW. This book gives golden retriever 'IF HE WANTED TO HE WOULD' MMC and a complex, good hearted, kind and layered FMC who when brought together, make this story magical. The chemistry is something I could almost reach my hand out and FEEL radiating off the page. The honesty, and communication was so refreshing to see characters who whilst setting boundaries, and being carefree with each other also unashamedly sharing feelings with one another. The banter and just silliness that leaves a smile stretched on your face makes the feel goodness of this book undeniable. As always Abby Jimenez serves an amazing romance with such a deeply emotional plot as a side and the two mixed together in this book made it absolutely incredible. 5 🌟

SO GOOD!! I was at 4.25ish stars for the first half and then THE ENDING was so good!!! I loveee Justin. He is the epitome of if he wanted to he would. And Emma! I love that she was such a realistic character. She was so kind and amazing but also had such a heartbreaking past and so much to work through. I thought they were both perfect for what each other needed🥹 Favorite Abby Jiminez book so far! I think this one is really going to stick with me for a long time.

Amber is my own mother. I didn’t expect the rollercoaster of emotions I felt reading this one. I cried, I laughed out loud, I annotated. I really liked Part of Your World, I loved Yours Truly, but Just for the Summer is easily my favorite. 100 stars!

calling it now: favorite book of 2024

4.75 ⭐️! (Rounding up for the sake of Goodreads not letting us do .75 stars 😠) My favorite Abby book yet!!! 🥹

Forgot to update this but I LOVED IT just like I knew I would. I just love how Abby Jimenez writes contemp romance, it feels so believable. Highly recommend all 3 in this series.

•Online meet-cute •Summer romance •Dual POV •Dating pact •Complex family dynamics •Found family//adoption//foster care//guardianship •Mental health/past trauma •Alllll the Abby Easter eggs •Baby raccoons! Justin and Emma meet online after she and her best friend, Maddie, stumble upon Justin's recent "Am I the asshole?" post detailing his most recent 'Good Luck Chuck' relationship. Every time Justin dates someone they quickly break it off and immediately go on to find the love of their life. Not believing that someone else has the same exact luck (curse?) as her, Emma messages Justin, and a flirty text situationship develops. What would happen if they decided to make a dating pact? Could their own bad luck actually cancel each other's out? Just a few simple rules and they could be on their way to true love, right? Right! 4 dates...one kiss...and a breakup. & just for the summer!! I feel like I say this every time Abby drops a new book but...this is her BEST BOOK YET! Fans of Abby will devour this one and readers who may be new to her writing will no doubt want to go back and connect all the dots from her previous books. One big difference with Just For the Summer compared to her previous books...there is very little of the whole miscommunication trope--bonus points for me! The dual POV gives us a glimpse of two completely different stories, and lives, and slowly merges them into one complex, yet beautiful, story. One of friendship, forgiveness, healing, and the life changing realization that you ARE worthy of love! There were twists I was not expecting and not at all prepared for!! A summer lake house setting & many hilarious and lovable side characters. Laugh out loud funny, the perfect beachy read & also emotional and Kleenex worthy--Just for the Summer is a 5 star heartfelt must-read. Thank you to NetGalley and Forever Publishing for granting my wish in exchange for my honest review. I cannot wait to see what Abby dreams up next!

Nobody, and I do mean NOBODY, writes romances that I enjoy more than Abby Jimenez! She makes me want to crawl inside the pages of her books and become one of her characters, so I can marry her “too good to be true” MMC, have a best friend like her MFC will have, and own one of the adorable (or ugly!) rescue dogs that she creates! (here’s looking at you, Brad!) 🐶 I am never approved for her ARCs, and this was one of my MOST anticipated books for 2024, so you know I planned to start reading it on publication day-and it DID NOT DISAPPOINT! Justin thinks he has been cursed-every woman he dates and breaks up with goes on to find their soulmate in the very NEXT person they date. He posts about it on Reddit and now it is all over the internet. Emma and her BFF, see the post and send him a DM, admitting that Emma seems to have the same problem. In a flirty response, he suggests that dating each other, could break the curse. Currently on assignment in Colorado, the friends who are traveling nurses, are due to go to Hawaii next, and a stint in Minnesota where Justin lives, was not even on their TOP 25 list of destinations. But when two positions open up at a prestigious hospital in Minneapolis, complete with an adorable cottage on a private island on Lake Minnetonka, it seems fated that Emma give “breaking the curse” a try-even if true love wasn’t really something she was looking for. The result? Another book that had me laughing and crying and cheering a couple on! With cameos from characters from the “Yours Truly” and “Part of Your World” an earlier two book series-I devoured this unputdownable book! And, the ending? Chef’s kiss! 😘 Definitely BEACH 🏖️ BAG approved! Thank You to the Chandler Public library for the loan of both the Audible and written copies on publication day, which I paired for another wonderful experience. A buddy read with DeAnn! Be sure to watch for her review! TW: undiagnosed mental health issues, a toxic mother, and past child neglect.

i REALLY liked this book—teetering between 4 and 4.5 stars. the more i sit with it, the more i miss it. especially you, Justin🥹 i read this in under 24 hours and in two sittings. ate👏🏼it👏🏼up👏🏼 it was the perfect book for me at the perfect time. it doesn’t quite beat out THE FRIEND ZONE (my fave of hers) but it was good. maybe my second fave of hers?!? it’s time for an author ranking… this is the perfect romcom to head into spring/summer with, and a PERFECT beach or pool binge (i binged it outside this weekend). and the setting? the Midwest in the summer >>> my favorite thing about Abby Jimenez’ books are the side plots. she kind of reminds me of Katherine Center in that way—where the side plots are almost just as strong if not stronger than the romance / main plot. this was no exception! i also love how mature her characters are. maybe that’s a reflection of my age (31), but i’m here for the older 20s/early 30 romances where people are in similar stages of life to me. much more relatable, idk the younger characters just dont hit as hard for me now (which obv makes sense, except if you’re Magnolia Parks lolllll). this book was much deeper than i was expecting it to be, esp with the mom side plot. but i really applaud Abby for how she wrote and handled these delicate topics and characters. without spoiling anything, the third act breakup was actually really respectable and not an eye roll at all (which it typically is for me, iykyk). but like, is Justin everyone’s book bf now? bc he’s mineeeeeee. my goodness he was perfect 🥹 gentle and kind and caring and romantic and supportive. and i’m sure he was a SMOKEEEE lol😮‍💨 chalk this up as a book i’d like to see adapted STAT!!!!

!!!!!! i have no WORDS ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ “four dates. a kiss. no breakup” 🩷🎀🌸💓 *CHANGED FROM 4.75 TO A 5 BECAUSE I LOVEEEDDD SO MUCH*

1.) Part of Your World ★★★★★ 2.) Yours Truly ★★★★ let me preface this entire review by saying that i do believe you should read at least part of your world in this loosely connected series. i didn’t feel like this about yours truly, because you just see overlapping friendships between characters - which is really cool, but i don’t think would hinder any reading experience! But i truly am not sure if i would have given this book five stars, if not for also reading part of your world! so again, totally do whatever you wanna do, read these however you want to read them, but i just recommend reading at least part of your world (which is probably the best romance book i’ve read in years, so it will be a fun side quest, i promise)! now that that is out of the way - let me actually talk about the book itself! The basic premise is that a girl read a reddit post that makes her realize the poster and her have one thing in common: they both are the person people date before they find their soulmates. So emma (28, traveling nurse) slides into justin’s (op, 29, engineer) about this curse they both may have, but then they start talking about other things and realize that they actually have more in common than their nonexistent love lives. they come up with a plan to maybe try to break this spell by dating each other on emma’s next traveling assignment, where she will come to minnesota where justin is at. and maybe, much like another book i loved this year - funny story, justin can convince emma to fall in love with his state, and maybe even want to set up some roots even though she lives a life constantly moving from place to place with her best friend. firstly, i love justin, i love emma, i wish them both the very best in life, but their friends, in particular maddy, oh they have my entire heart. this is a love story, without question, and this has a lot of heavy themes of grief and childhood neglect, but to me, this is a story about friendship, support systems, and being there for the people you love in life, no matter what. from justin’s friends knowing exactly what to do to lightening the weight in his life, to emma’s best friend maddy, who gave her so many different types of love throughout this book and truly is probably the best book friends i’ve ever read about in my life, to justin’s mom’s best friend who makes me cry even thinking about. this is just such a book about showing up for people, and also feeling like you trust people to show up for you, even when others in the past have made you a person who does not trust easily. these themes just really set this book apart for me, and is the reason this will be one of my favorite books of 2024. other things i loved: first dates with kittens!! questionnaires/google forms letting the person know what you like on dates! i know a lot of medical travelers and it was really cool reading a mc who does it! also, accurate med surg stereotype commentary, alongside accurate vegas stereotype commentary lol. you’re never too old to make new connections, and healthy relationships, with respected boundaries (romantically, but also with friends and family and anyone you choose to share your life with)! overall, if you’re looking for a really good romance, following two people healing from their pasts, both together and apart, and truly creating a healthy life for themselves, while also being such a love letter to friendships and all relationships (again, not just romantic ones), then please pick this up. i knew i was going to like this, but i didn’t expect to love it so very much and be impacted by the story so very deeply. and if you need a reminder, you are not the sum of the bad things in your past, especially stuff that was beyond your control. and it’s never too late to get the help, or extra resources, that you deserve. and you always deserve to live a healthier life, surrounded by people who appreciate you and love you unconditionally. lastly, abby - please give us the maddy (view spoiler) book. I am on my knees writing this review, begging you, please. trigger + content warnings in the front of the book (it also says there should be a full list of more tw/cw on the author’s website and goodreads, which i couldn’t find to link as of august 5th, 2024, but i still always appreciate when they are in books): scenes containing panic attacks, anxiety, ptsd, depression, depictions of undiagnosed mental health issues, a toxic mother, and past child neglect. additional trigger + content warnings i wrote down while reading: talk of loss of father in past (car accident where the other person was drinking and driving), abandonment, abusive parents, neglect in past, child starvation in past, gaslighting, manipulation, a few hospital settings (only because of the profession of one of the mcs), talk of foster systems, grief, a parent going to prison, one sentence regarding suicide, vomit, sickness (norovirus), talk of menstruation, headlice, and talk of loss of grandparents in past. blog | instagram | youtube | wishlist | spotify | amazon ♡ The Friend Zone ★★ ♡ buddy read with betty jo

5 stars "You're not asking for too much. You were just asking the wrong person. Ask me instead.” Another Abby Jimenez book is going right on the favorites of the year list. Should I even be surprised at this point? Her last three books, especially, have been the biggest wins for me! Emotional and hard to read at times, yet so much fun at other times. I loved this one so much! Emma and Justin meet unconventionally, and as a travel nurse, Emma decides to come to Minnesota, where Justin is from, for her next contract. She and her best friend Maddy work together and make the trip. I loved Emma and Justin together. Justin was the best of the best. I still think Jacob is her best hero, but Justin is a close second. And speaking of Jacob… all the freaking easter eggs in this book! Some of them I caught really early, so that was fun, and others surprised me in the best way. As I said before, I laughed and smiled so much in this book, but I also teared up. It had some heavy topics, and both Justin and Emma are going through some issues with their mothers, though Emma’s is a lot more traumatic in a way. I loved watching her heal and grow. Her bff Maddy was the real MVP of this book, and she deserves all the happiness. She helps Emma a lot. Overall, this book was fantastic, and honestly, there was nothing I didn’t love about it. It was witty, sweet, charming, and an absolute must-read! Audio book source: Audible Story Rating: 5 stars Narrators: Zachary Webber & Christine Lakin Narration Rating: 5 stars Genre: Romance Length: 11h 43m

4.75⭐️ hey, if a book makes me cry on the bus, it's getting 5 stars 😭😭 4 dates, 1 kiss and a break up; just for the summer - or is it?? Justin and Emma think they are under a curse, everyone they date finds their one true love after a break up so they decide that maybe if they dated each other, that would break each other's curse, right? The first book I read by A. Jimenez was Yours Truly and I remember thinking that for a romance writer who leans more towards romcom, she explores too many medical trigger warnings, like maybe it would make sense if were typical contemporary romance because you'd kind of expect that. Her covers get me and I pick them up because I want their romance to make me go "awww too cute" just the bright colors and smile a lot more than cry and have my anxiety triggered. I was worried when I read the description and trigger warnings for this book - panic attacks, anxiety, PTSD, depression, depictions of undiagnosed mental health issues, a toxic mother, and past child neglect. This managed to be still very cute and felt like a warm hug after therapy. I loved this storyline so much more. I loved the layers to the characters and the plot as well. It did not at all feel like the triggering contents overwhelmed the romance of the story to me and it had me invested in Justin and Emma, Maddy and Niel and Amber the whole time. *** this is as much summer as I'm going to get rn, I'll take it ☀️👙⛱️🌸💛

GODDDDDDD THIS ONE OF MY FAVORITE BOOKS OF THE YEAR ABBY JIMENEZ YOU DESERVE ALL THE GOOD THINGS IN THE WORLD I LOVE YOUUUUU

I will never stop thinking about this book. Everything from the setting to the characters was perfect! It was an imperfect story written in the most perfect way. I loved the approach Abby Jimenez took with writing about very delicate subjects. It all felt painfully real but the love story in this book really is one of the best. Truly can't recommend this enough.

ੈ♡˳ rating: five outta five ੈ♡˳ thoughts: i absolutely loved this book. it was so hard to put down once i started but me falling asleep at work a couple of times was so worth it being able to read this book all in one sitting. i loved the growth from the female main character, emma. it took a couple of hard knocks against her head from her best friend maddy, but in the end she really came through. justin is a perfect boyfriend through and through. i doubt that there are any men that are going to send you a pre and post date survey to make sure that they cater to you 100%. i loved him and i loved his growth as well. i feel like both emma and justin had a lot to learn from each other, a lot to teach each other, and a lot to teach the people around them. but oh my god that 3rd act break up had me screaming so loud. also this was the first time that i actually found myself giggling at a romantic comedy book in a long time, so props to abby for that. this is actually my first abby read but i will be reading so many more. ੈ♡˳ tropes ꕥ found family ꕥ small town romance ꕥ strangers to lovers ꕥ summer romance ੈ♡˳ fave quotes “ೃ⁀➷ “in a world where you can choose anger or empathy, always choose empathy.” ೃ⁀➷ “you're not asking too much," he said. "you were just asking the wrong person. ask me instead.” ೃ⁀➷ “sometimes the best way to show love or be kind to someone is to meet them where they are.” ೃ⁀➷ “you are not what happened to you. you are what you do next.” ೃ⁀➷ “the best kind of love doesn’t happen on moonlit walks and romantic vacations. it happens in between the folds of everyday life. it’s not grand gestures that show how you feel, it’s all the little secret things you do to make her life better that you never tell her about.” ೃ⁀➷ “maybe home isn’t a place. maybe it’s a person.” ◡̈ ◡̈ ◡̈

My #1 Favorite Romance Novel for 2024 “Home wasn’t a place, it was a person. For me it was a whole family.” Can you keep a secret? Most importantly, not tell my husband? I have fallen head over heels in love with another man. His name is Justin. How could I not? He sends surveys before dates to determine exactly what we would like to have happen. He is incredibly handsome, smart and takes care of his younger siblings. When sick, he is there in a nano second with everything needed to be sure we are well-taken care of. And most importantly, he has a dog named Brad. So, what’s the problem? He’s cursed. Or so he believes. And so is Emma. Or so she believes. Each one thinks that everyone else that they fall for only can last with them a few dates, but then when they break up with them, those persons will find their soulmates. Because that seems to be what always happens. This is not what Justin wants for himself. Emma, seems to gravitate to a short-term life. Her abandonment since childhood makes it difficult for her to create any roots, except her long-term commitment to her career as a travelling nurse, and her very best friend Maddy. So, what will happen with Justin and Emma? Will she give herself a chance to find her roots in Minnesota? “Sometimes the best way to show love or be kind to someone is to meet them where they are.” What will happen to me? (Just kidding!) I love my husband, madly. There is so much between these pages, that I found myself noticing that, this is not a typical rom-com. There is real here. There is sad here. There are characters that we want to be truly upset with and not forgive, but know intuitively, that forgiveness is always the gift we give ourselves. So, as readers, let us pay attention to what happens with everyone, because there is a complex and compelling plot, we need to be patient with, too. But we can still be charmed with the wit and humor amidst the tragic family dynamics. So, as we turn the pages, we learn so much because the story is rich with heart and soul and we are truly hopeful that maybe just maybe, Justin and Emma will find their HEA with each other. Because if anybody deserves it, they do.

I’m definitely not crying 🥹😭 rtc soon I promise —— ☀️ pre-read: ☀️ I finished Yours Truly overnight in one sitting so I’m immediately jumping into the next one. Thanks to my boo’s Hoda & Buket for hyping me up for this 💞

5+/5⭐️ 1/5🌶️ SIX STARS!!!🙌🏼😍 This is hands down my favorite Abby Jimenez book yet, this was INCREDIBLE! This is such a perfect book for spring/summer and will be a huge hit! I highly recommend reading the series in order if you can (Part Of Your World first then Yours Truly). They are technically stand-alone but this book will mean so much more to you if you’ve read the others first. A Romcom with SO much depth and meaning. Abby does such an amazing job writing deeply complex, real, and relatable characters. I particularly love how she wove important themes of mental health into this book, it was done flawlessly. As someone who works in the mental health field, specifically with individuals who have experienced lots of trauma, it is clear Abby put lots of research into writing this book! What to expect: - RomCom - Insta- love - Fake(ish) dating - Mental health rep - Plot Twist - Travel nurse FMC/self-discovery experience - Rock steady MMC - Amazing connections to the first 2 books in series Thank you so much to NetGalley for this ARC, this will be a top book of 2024 for me!

FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THINGS HOLY READ THE OTHER TWO BOOKS IN THIS ‘SERIES’ BEFORE THIS ONE. (Extra credit if you read all of her other books too) First things first, Abby writes superior men. Justin takes the cake for the ultimate romance book boyfriend. ACTS OF SERVICE BABY. I ate this book up from beginning to end. I don’t know what Abby puts in her books, but it’s like crack for me. The amount of times I sobbed in this book was astounding. She has such a talent at approaching mental health. There were so many things I loved about this book, but I don’t want to spoil anything soo just read it 🥰 Dare I say this might be my fav book from her?? Idk it’s genuinely so hard to pick a fav, but the Part of Your World series is a must read for romance lovers! Abby if you see this, I idolize you. Please let us interview you for our podcast plz plz plz

⋆˚࿔ 𝓳𝓾𝓼𝓽 𝓯𝓸𝓻 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓼𝓾𝓶𝓶𝓮𝓻 𝜗𝜚˚⋆ ·˚ ◌༘͙ 𝒔𝒕𝒂𝒕𝒔! ⋆｡🕯. -ʚɞ {𝟔 ☆’𝒔} {𝒑𝒂𝒈𝒆 𝒄𝒐𝒖𝒏𝒕: 𝟒𝟎𝟓} {𝟓𝒕𝒉 𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒅 𝒐𝒇 𝑱𝒖𝒍𝒚!} {𝒈𝒆𝒏𝒓𝒆: 𝒂𝒅𝒖𝒍𝒕 𝒓𝒐𝒎𝒂𝒏𝒄𝒆} 𐙚𓏲⋆ ִֶָ ๋𓂃 ⋆ᡣ𐭩 ~ ⛵️when i was reading this not even halfway through i went and added all of Abby Jimenez’s books to my tbr <3 ~ 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒘𝒓𝒊𝒕𝒊𝒏𝒈/𝒑𝒍𝒐𝒕 ~ ⛵️ ╰┈➤ the writing was good! i like dialogue heavy romance books. it’s also faced paced! (and dual pov 🤭) I planned on reading this in one sitting but i couldn’t do that bc i wanted more time to experience the book 🥹 i knew i would never get to read it again for the first time, so i took my time with it. she’s similar to EH in the way that she has an emotional underlining theme throughout the book. i really loved this. she also writes mental health well and i appreciate that. the plot follows Emma & Justin once Emma discovers a Reddit post made by Justin that asks “am i the asshole?” from there she learns that she and Justin both have the same “curse” - every time they date someone and they break up the other person goes on to find their soulmate. so Emma & Justin agree to “fake” date in hopes that their curse will cancel out and they’ll go on to find their soulmates. this is such an original idea unlike everything else we see in romance books. I love to see something different! ~ 𝑬𝒎𝒎𝒂 ~ ⛵️ ╰┈➤ i related to Emma a lot. not in the way something happened to her but her thoughts. she gives love to everyone around her and she believes she’s not capable of love. she said something that really makes sense in my mind: “𝑰 𝒉𝒂𝒗𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒘𝒉𝒆𝒓𝒆 𝑰 𝒈𝒆𝒕 𝒔𝒎𝒂𝒍𝒍.” “𝑰 𝒈𝒆𝒕 𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒍𝒍𝒚 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉𝒅𝒓𝒂𝒘𝒏 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝑰 𝒋𝒖𝒔𝒕 𝒘𝒂𝒏𝒕 𝒕𝒐 𝒃𝒆 𝒂𝒍𝒐𝒏𝒆.” same thing happens to me but mine is for a different reason than hers. anxiety will do this to you and it’s an uphill battle I’ve been fighting for years. never in my life have I related more to a character. I’ve been waiting for the day that i can relate to a character this deeply. anyways I love her <3 she deserves the world 🫶🏼 ~ 𝑱𝒖𝒔𝒕𝒊𝒏 ~ ⛵️ ╰┈➤ talk about the perfect man. i knew he would be my favorite bc he’s a dog person. he’s actually hilarious I love his humor. he’s so cute. he has things he’s dealing with in his own life and this is ultimately what brings Emma & Justin closer. I loved seeing their relationship. i’m being serious when i say this is my exact type 😭 he’s a protector and he wants to do things for her. they have a soft love and that’s the best kind if you ask me. you guys know that TikTok sound that’s like “how he makes me feel” and the sound has a bunch of people talking in the background (kind of sounds like a crowded restaurant) but once the girl goes to the guy her mind instantly quiets. that’s how i picture them. i love how they speak about what’s on their mind and communicate. and how they can just be themselves around each other. ~ 𝑴𝒂𝒅𝒅𝒚 ~ ⛵️ ╰┈➤ Maddy is a good friend. she’s like Emma’s rock. she will always be there for her no matter what. she tells Emma things that she might not want to hear but it’s true. she speaks her mind about things and doesn’t hold back. i liked that about her. ~ 𝒇𝒊𝒏𝒂𝒍 𝒕𝒉𝒐𝒖𝒈𝒉𝒕𝒔 ~ ⛵️ ╰┈➤ this is my favorite book of this year. i absolutely adore it. i annotated the crap out of this 😭 I can’t wait to hear all your thoughts if you decide to read it! this book has become my new obsession. prepare for me to not shut up about it 😇 this is your sign to read it! 𐙚𓏲⋆ ִֶָ ๋𓂃 ⋆ᡣ𐭩 ~⛵️ 𝒒𝒖𝒐𝒕𝒆𝒔! ⚠️⚠️(these quotes may have spoilers!! read at your own risk!)⚠️ ⚠️ ・❥・“𝑫𝒐 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒍𝒊𝒌𝒆 𝒅𝒐𝒈𝒔?” “𝑾𝒉𝒐 𝒅𝒐𝒆𝒔𝒏’𝒕 𝒍𝒊𝒌𝒆 𝒅𝒐𝒈𝒔?” -the moment i knew. ・❥・“𝑰 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒌 𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒔𝒆𝒏𝒔𝒆 𝒐𝒇 𝒉𝒖𝒎𝒐𝒓 𝒎𝒂𝒅𝒆 𝒉𝒊𝒎 𝒎𝒐𝒓𝒆 𝒂𝒕𝒕𝒓𝒂𝒄𝒕𝒊𝒗𝒆.” -took the words right out of my mouth. ・❥・𝑰 𝒃𝒊𝒕 𝒎𝒚 𝒌𝒏𝒖𝒄𝒌𝒍𝒆 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒅𝒊𝒅 𝒂 𝒔𝒊𝒍𝒆𝒏𝒕 𝒇𝒊𝒔𝒕 𝒃𝒖𝒎𝒑 𝒊𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒂𝒊𝒓. -he’s such a dad 😭😭 ・❥・“𝑴𝒂𝒚𝒃𝒆 𝒉𝒐𝒎𝒆 𝒊𝒔𝒏’𝒕 𝒂 𝒑𝒍𝒂𝒄𝒆. 𝑴𝒂𝒚𝒃𝒆 𝒊𝒕’𝒔 𝒂 𝒑𝒆𝒓𝒔𝒐𝒏.” -adorable. ・❥・𝑰 𝒈𝒓𝒊𝒏𝒏𝒆𝒅 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒎𝒂𝒅𝒆 𝒂 𝒄𝒐𝒎𝒆-𝒉𝒆𝒓𝒆 𝒎𝒐𝒕𝒊𝒐𝒏 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 𝒎𝒚 𝒉𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒔𝒉𝒆 𝒔𝒄𝒐𝒐𝒕𝒆𝒅 𝒐𝒗𝒆𝒓 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒍𝒆𝒕 𝒎𝒆 𝒑𝒖𝒕 𝒂𝒏 𝒂𝒓𝒎 𝒂𝒓𝒐𝒖𝒏𝒅 𝒉𝒆𝒓. 𝑻𝒉𝒆 𝒉𝒊𝒈𝒉𝒍𝒊𝒈𝒉𝒕 𝒐𝒇 𝒎𝒚 𝒆𝒏𝒕𝒊𝒓𝒆 𝒘𝒆𝒆𝒌, 𝒉𝒂𝒏𝒅𝒔 𝒅𝒐𝒘𝒏. -i loved being in his pov ・❥・“𝑰 𝒔𝒘𝒆𝒂𝒓 𝒕𝒐 𝑮𝒐𝒅 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒈𝒖𝒚 𝒊𝒔 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒆𝒑𝒊𝒕𝒐𝒎𝒆 𝒐𝒇 𝑰𝒇 𝑯𝒆 𝑾𝒂𝒏𝒕𝒆𝒅 𝑻𝒐 𝑯𝒆 𝑾𝒐𝒖𝒍𝒅.” -Maddy, i agree. ・❥・“𝑰𝒕’𝒔 𝒇𝒖𝒏𝒏𝒚 𝒉𝒐𝒘 𝒘𝒉𝒆𝒏 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒇𝒊𝒏𝒅 𝒔𝒐𝒎𝒆𝒐𝒏𝒆 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒍𝒊𝒌𝒆 𝒂𝒔 𝒎𝒖𝒄𝒉 𝒂𝒔 𝑰 𝒍𝒊𝒌𝒆𝒅 𝒉𝒆𝒓, 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒅𝒆𝒔𝒕𝒊𝒏𝒂𝒕𝒊𝒐𝒏 𝒊𝒔 𝒔𝒖𝒅𝒅𝒆𝒏𝒍𝒚 𝒘𝒉𝒆𝒓𝒆𝒗𝒆𝒓 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒚 𝒂𝒓𝒆. 𝑬𝒗𝒆𝒏 𝒊𝒇 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒓𝒆’𝒔 𝒔𝒐𝒎𝒆𝒑𝒍𝒂𝒄𝒆 𝒃𝒆𝒕𝒕𝒆𝒓, 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒘𝒐𝒖𝒍𝒅𝒏’𝒕 𝒈𝒐 𝒊𝒇 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒚 𝒄𝒐𝒖𝒍𝒅𝒏’𝒕 𝒄𝒐𝒎𝒆.” -another reason why Justin is just better. ・❥・“𝑬𝒗𝒆𝒓𝒚 𝒅𝒂𝒕𝒆 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒘𝒂𝒔 𝒔𝒂𝒄𝒓𝒆𝒅 𝒕𝒐 𝒎𝒆. 𝑰 𝒍𝒊𝒌𝒆𝒅 𝒔𝒑𝒆𝒏𝒅𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒕𝒊𝒎𝒆 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒔𝒐 𝒎𝒖𝒄𝒉, 𝑰 𝒃𝒓𝒐𝒖𝒈𝒉𝒕 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒍𝒖𝒏𝒄𝒉 𝒚𝒆𝒔𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒅𝒂𝒚 𝒋𝒖𝒔𝒕 𝒕𝒐 𝒉𝒂𝒗𝒆 𝒂𝒏 𝒆𝒙𝒄𝒖𝒔𝒆 𝒕𝒐 𝒔𝒆𝒆 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒇𝒐𝒓 𝒇𝒊𝒗𝒆 𝒎𝒊𝒏𝒖𝒕𝒆𝒔. 𝑰 𝒕𝒉𝒐𝒖𝒈𝒉𝒕 𝒂𝒃𝒐𝒖𝒕 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒏𝒆𝒙𝒕 𝒕𝒊𝒎𝒆 𝑰 𝒈𝒐𝒕 𝒕𝒐 𝒔𝒆𝒆 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒆𝒗𝒆𝒓𝒚 𝒔𝒆𝒄𝒐𝒏𝒅 𝒖𝒑 𝒖𝒏𝒕𝒊𝒍 𝒔𝒉𝒆 𝒂𝒓𝒓𝒊𝒗𝒆𝒅.” “𝑰 𝒕𝒉𝒐𝒖𝒈𝒉𝒕 𝒂𝒃𝒐𝒖𝒕 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒂𝒍𝒍 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒕𝒊𝒎𝒆.” -say it with me: IF HE WANTED TO HE WOULD 😫😫 ・❥・“𝑻𝒉𝒐𝒖𝒈𝒉 𝒔𝒐𝒎𝒆𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒕𝒐𝒍𝒅 𝒎𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒊𝒇 𝑰 𝒄𝒂𝒍𝒍𝒆𝒅 𝒉𝒊𝒎 𝒏𝒐𝒘 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒘𝒐𝒌𝒆 𝒉𝒊𝒎 𝒖𝒑, 𝒉𝒆 𝒘𝒐𝒖𝒍𝒅𝒏’𝒕 𝒎𝒊𝒏𝒅. 𝑰𝒕 𝒘𝒂𝒔 𝒘𝒆𝒊𝒓𝒅 𝑰 𝒌𝒏𝒆𝒘 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕. 𝑻𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒊𝒇 𝑰 𝒏𝒆𝒆𝒅𝒆𝒅 𝒉𝒊𝒎, 𝒉𝒆 𝒘𝒐𝒖𝒍𝒅 𝒃𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒓𝒆 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒉𝒆 𝒘𝒐𝒖𝒍𝒅𝒏’𝒕 𝒃𝒆 𝒃𝒐𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒓𝒆𝒅 𝒃𝒚 𝒊𝒕 𝒏𝒐 𝒎𝒂𝒕𝒕𝒆𝒓 𝒉𝒐𝒘 𝒍𝒂𝒕𝒆 𝒐𝒓 𝒊𝒏𝒄𝒐𝒏𝒗𝒆𝒏𝒊𝒆𝒏𝒕 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒕𝒊𝒎𝒆. 𝑵𝒐… 𝒏𝒐𝒕 𝒋𝒖𝒔𝒕 𝒊𝒇 𝑰 𝒏𝒆𝒆𝒅𝒆𝒅 𝒉𝒊𝒎. 𝑰𝒇 𝒊 𝒘𝒂𝒏𝒕𝒆𝒅 𝒉𝒊𝒎, 𝒉𝒆 𝒘𝒐𝒖𝒍𝒅 𝒃𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒓𝒆. 𝑰𝒕 𝒅𝒊𝒅𝒏’𝒕 𝒉𝒂𝒗𝒆 𝒕𝒐 𝒃𝒆 𝒊𝒎𝒑𝒐𝒓𝒕𝒂𝒏𝒕. 𝑯𝒆 𝒘𝒐𝒖𝒍𝒅 𝒃𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒓𝒆 𝒇𝒐𝒓 𝒂𝒏𝒚𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒂𝒏𝒚 𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒔𝒐𝒏. 𝑨𝒏𝒅 𝑰 𝒌𝒏𝒆𝒘 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕.” -dependable ✅ trustworthy ✅ all green flags ✅ ・❥・“𝑰𝒕 𝒄𝒂𝒍𝒎𝒆𝒅 𝒎𝒆 𝒉𝒂𝒗𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒉𝒊𝒎 𝒏𝒆𝒂𝒓𝒃𝒚.” -love this 🥹 ・❥・“𝑻𝒉𝒆 𝒃𝒆𝒔𝒕 𝒌𝒊𝒏𝒅 𝒐𝒇 𝒍𝒐𝒗𝒆 𝒅𝒐𝒆𝒔𝒏’𝒕 𝒉𝒂𝒑𝒑𝒆𝒏 𝒐𝒏 𝒎𝒐𝒐𝒏𝒍𝒊𝒕 𝒘𝒂𝒍𝒌𝒔 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒓𝒐𝒎𝒂𝒏𝒕𝒊𝒄 𝒗𝒂𝒄𝒂𝒕𝒊𝒐𝒏𝒔. 𝑰𝒕 𝒉𝒂𝒑𝒑𝒆𝒏𝒔 𝒃𝒆𝒕𝒘𝒆𝒆𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒇𝒐𝒍𝒅𝒔 𝒐𝒇 𝒆𝒗𝒆𝒓𝒚𝒅𝒂𝒚 𝒍𝒊𝒇𝒆. 𝑰𝒕’𝒔 𝒏𝒐𝒕 𝒈𝒓𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒈𝒆𝒔𝒕𝒖𝒓𝒆𝒔 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒔𝒉𝒐𝒘 𝒉𝒐𝒘 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒇𝒆𝒆𝒍, 𝒊𝒕’𝒔 𝒂𝒍𝒍 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒍𝒊𝒕𝒕𝒍𝒆 𝒔𝒆𝒄𝒓𝒆𝒕 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈𝒔 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒅𝒐 𝒕𝒐 𝒎𝒂𝒌𝒆 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒍𝒊𝒇𝒆 𝒃𝒆𝒕𝒕𝒆𝒓 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒏𝒆𝒗𝒆𝒓 𝒕𝒆𝒍𝒍 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒂𝒃𝒐𝒖𝒕. 𝑰𝒕’𝒔 𝒘𝒂𝒕𝒄𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝑻𝑽 𝒐𝒏 𝒂 𝒓𝒂𝒊𝒏𝒚 𝑺𝒖𝒏𝒅𝒂𝒚 𝒘𝒉𝒊𝒍𝒆 𝒚𝒐𝒖’𝒓𝒆 𝒅𝒐𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒍𝒂𝒖𝒏𝒅𝒓𝒚 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒕𝒖𝒓𝒏𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒉𝒆𝒓 𝒍𝒊𝒈𝒉𝒕 𝒐𝒇𝒇 𝒘𝒉𝒆𝒏 𝒔𝒉𝒆’𝒔 𝒇𝒂𝒍𝒍𝒆𝒏 𝒂𝒔𝒍𝒆𝒆𝒑 𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒅𝒊𝒏𝒈. 𝑰𝒕 𝒊𝒔𝒏’𝒕 𝒈𝒍𝒂𝒎𝒐𝒓𝒐𝒖𝒔, 𝒊𝒕 𝒊𝒔𝒏’𝒕 𝒂𝒍𝒍 𝒃𝒖𝒕𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒇𝒍𝒊𝒆𝒔 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒔𝒕𝒂𝒓𝒔 𝒊𝒏 𝒚𝒐𝒖𝒓 𝒆𝒚𝒆𝒔. 𝑰𝒕’𝒔 𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒍. 𝑻𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒊𝒔 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒌𝒊𝒏𝒅 𝒐𝒇 𝒍𝒐𝒗𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒇𝒐𝒓𝒆𝒗𝒆𝒓 𝒊𝒔 𝒎𝒂𝒅𝒆 𝒐𝒇. 𝑩𝒆𝒄𝒂𝒖𝒔𝒆 𝒊𝒇 𝒊𝒕’𝒔 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒈𝒐𝒐𝒅 𝒘𝒉𝒆𝒏 𝒍𝒊𝒇𝒆 𝒊𝒔 𝒅𝒓𝒂𝒊𝒏𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒎𝒖𝒏𝒅𝒂𝒏𝒆 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒉𝒂𝒓𝒅, 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒌 𝒐𝒇 𝒉𝒐𝒘 𝒘𝒐𝒏𝒅𝒆𝒓𝒇𝒖𝒍 𝒊𝒕 𝒘𝒊𝒍𝒍 𝒃𝒆 𝒘𝒉𝒆𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒍𝒐𝒗𝒆 𝒔𝒐𝒏𝒈𝒔 𝒂𝒓𝒆 𝒑𝒍𝒂𝒚𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒎𝒐𝒐𝒏 𝒊𝒔 𝒐𝒖𝒕.” -i shortened this up a bit but it’s one of my favorites 🫶🏼 𐙚𓏲⋆ ִֶָ ๋𓂃 ⋆ᡣ𐭩

4.5⭐️ 𝐋𝐢𝐭𝐭𝐥𝐞 𝐩𝐥𝐚𝐲𝐥𝐢𝐬𝐭, 𝐝𝐫𝐮𝐦 𝐫𝐨𝐥𝐥 𝐩𝐥𝐬: 🎶The little things - Kelsea Ballerini 🎶Sleepy - Ashley Kutcher 🎶All of the girls you loved before - Taylor Swift 🎶So high school - Taylor Swift 🎶Like no one does - Jake Scott 🎶Sink in - Jake Scott 🎶CWJBHN - Jake Scott & Josie Dunne 🎶We haven't looked at our phones - Jake Scott 🎶Someone to love - Christian French 🎶People pleaser - Cat Burns 🎶Beautiful things - Benson Boone 🎶Late night talking - Harry Styles ≿━━━━༺❀༻━━━━≾≿━━━━༺❀༻━━━━≾ ༻✦༺𝒫𝒪𝒮𝐼𝒯𝐼𝒱𝐸𝒮🎀༻✧༺ ୨୧ · · ♡ · · ୨୧ I absolutely ADORE Justin. This man is the definition of "he would do everything for you because he wants to and he also enjoys doing it". His attention to detail, the way this man was WHIPPED!! I'm telling you this is the kind of yearning I personally want. He would worship the ground she walks on🤭 ୨୧ · · ♡ · · ୨୧ I loved the writing. Everything, from the story to the characters and their conversations felt very life like. The descriptions were very well done and I could actually feel like I was in Minnesota even tho I've never been there and I'm not even American:)). The emotional side of the book was also very well portrayed and you could feel every emotion Abby Jimenez was trying to convey through the characters. Especially pain, love and heartbreak🥲 ୨୧ · · ♡ · · ୨୧ Justin's family dynamic was the sweetest. I adored the connection he had with his family. I also lived for Emma's empathic side and how she somehow saw the good in everyone. Even in her mom (even tho at some points it pissed me off to no end😭). And the way Emma eventually got so close to Justin's family it was like she has always been apart of it🥹 ୨୧ · · ♡ · · ୨୧ Their dates were so comforting to read about. They were really two characters who could find themselves in each other and actually read like two real people enjoying the company the other provides. Even the details of what they liked and disliked were so intricate, to the point where you could truly see the characters as real living breathing people having genuine conversations. For example, they got to know each other by asking "Do you clap when the plane lands?". Like, 𝙏𝙃𝘼𝙏'𝙎 𝙏𝙃𝙀 𝙆𝙄𝙉𝘿 𝙊𝙁 𝘿𝙀𝙏𝘼𝙄𝙇 𝙄'𝙈 𝙄𝙉𝙏𝙀𝙍𝙀𝙎𝙏𝙀𝘿 𝙄𝙉 𝙒𝙃𝙀𝙉 𝙄 𝙍𝙀𝘼𝘿 𝘼 𝙍𝙊𝙈𝘼𝙉𝘾𝙀. I need these people to actually have depth and them getting to know one another. Not just mindless smut, instant lust and no conversations ୨୧ · · ♡ · · ୨୧ The friendship between Emma and Maddie was everything and it actually felt like a real connection between two best friends ୨୧ · · ♡ · · ୨୧ I love how Abby always finds a way to add dogs in her books. I also like that she ads (in each book of this series-I only read this series so far from her) a dog with a handicap or one that is a rescue or not a pure breed or not the conventional "pretty" dog(all dogs are beautiful in my opinion anyway)🐾 ≿━━━━༺❀༻━━━━≾≿━━━━༺❀༻━━━━≾ 𝐼 𝓁𝑜𝑜𝑜𝓋𝑒𝒹 𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓈 𝒷𝑜𝑜𝓀. 𝐼'𝓂 𝓈𝑜𝓇𝓇𝓎 𝓉𝑜 𝒷𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓅𝑒𝓇𝓈𝑜𝓃 𝒷𝓊𝓉 𝒽𝑜𝓌𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇☝🏻🙂‍↕️: I understand and I know what trauma does to you. I understand that from a personal view, actually. But this girl is a doormat. She lets her mom walk all over her, no talk back whatsoever, he best friend is the best person ever and she calls bullshit in a way I appreciate especially when she calls it for the MC's sake but Emma has to be one of the most infuriating characters I've ever read about. Denying any sort of feelings bc unresolved trauma that she's kind of aware of but doesn't want to do anything about because she USED to go to therapy so "what's the point of going again?" "Let me live out of a suitcase miserable for the rest of my life while I piss on my best friend's words (𝙒𝙃𝙊 𝙄𝙎 𝙍𝙄𝙂𝙃𝙏 𝘼𝘽𝙊𝙐𝙏 𝙀𝙑𝙀𝙍𝙔𝙏𝙃𝙄𝙉𝙂), while I push away the man that just might be my soulmate, because of his circumstances (which are not his fault), while I let my mom ruin my life once again and I go everywhere, feeling like nowhere is home." Be so fr. I UNDERSTAND her trauma. I really do. But you HAVE EVERYTHING good right in front of you and you not only keep sabotaging it but denying the fact that it exits by bolting every chance you get. That man is in love with you and your friend is right. WAKE UP. I get that the story needs drama and something that's fueling it but it gets frustrating and infuriating after the same thing happens time and time again. While the guy puts in the work 100%, she's completely on the other side of the world from his intentions. After reading all three books in this series-which I all loved, I came to the conclusion that this issue is a reoccurring theme in all three(the only thing I disliked about these stories). The guy falls in love first and harder and the girl is not even present and keeps denying everything bc she thinks she can't have it due to unresolved trauma. That kind of plot line is getting on my nerves tbh bc I don't like it when one of the characters is all in and the other is absent for most of the book. It just makes me feel bad.😓 I get very angry when people are like that irl, I can't help it. I'm a Maddie(her best friend) myself and I get SO fucking angry when people let other people walk all over them and the abused ones become a shell of who they were. They refuse help, refuse to see what's in front of them, good or bad and prefer to live in denial while cutting the abuser some slack every damn time. I know it's hard sometimes but pls stand up. That's one of the reasons I can't even read books with emotional or physical abuse because I get frustrated and angry. The patience Justin has tho is unreal. And he goes through something pretty traumatic as well. Maybe "not as traumatic" per say as her but it's still trauma nonetheless and he at least gives her grace.😕 Another positive is that I'm also really glad Maddie was there to call Emma's shit out cause otherwise I would've with a slap. ɪ ᴘʀᴏʙᴀʙʟʏ ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ'ᴠᴇ ᴛᴜʀɴᴇᴅ ᴛʜᴇ ʙᴏᴏᴋ ʙᴀᴄᴋ ɪɴᴛᴏ ᴀ ᴛʀᴇᴇ ᴡɪᴛʜ ᴛʜᴇ ꜱᴍᴀᴄᴋ ɪ ʜᴀᴅ ʀᴇᴀᴅʏ ꜰᴏʀ ᴇᴍᴍᴀ ᴛᴏ ʙᴇ ʜᴏɴᴇꜱᴛ ᴡɪᴛʜ ʏᴀ. The ending gagged me a little bit. Idk why I wasn't expecting what happened but my jaw could not be found💀 And thank God Emma did eventually wake up lol.

If you love romcoms, meet cutes, insta-love, fake dating Summer romance then I must let you know that this book is not known as readers’ most anticipated release this year for nothing! With some heartfelt moments, found family, and inner healing, this book covered so much that I was not expecting and will not forget. A must-read! Perfect for the upcoming summer – you have no excuse, go read! The best kind of love doesn’t happen on moonlit walks and romantic vacations. It happens in between the folds of everyday life. It’s not grand gestures that show how you feel, it’s all the little secret things you do to make her life better that you never tell her about... It isn’t glamorous, it isn’t all butterflies and stars in your eyes. It’s *real*. This is the kind of love that forever is made of. Because if it’s this good when life is draining and mundane and hard, think of how wonderful it will be when the love songs are playing and the moon is out. [ Contains some spoilers ] PLOT SUMMARY 28-year-old travel nurse Emma Grant encounters 29-year-old software engineer Justin Dahl’s hilarious online Reddit post “Am I the Asshole?” and they start messaging each other. Both of them have this so-called curse that whoever they are dating ends up finding their soulmate straight after: for Emma, this is after a month; for Justin, it is after four dates. So, they conspire to come up with this scheme that if they meet up and date for a while, this will break the curse and they will go on to find their own soulmates. Four dates, one month, a kiss, a breakup. Just for the summer. Emma and her best friend Maddy travel to various places they feel like, work in the hospital wherever they are, then move on. They plan to go to Hawaii but this chance online encounter with Justin spurs Emma into doing what she doesn’t expect: she wants to visit and date him. They change their plans to go to Minnesota instead. Of course, feelings are caught between them, but there are many obstacles. Circumstances have meant Justin has recently become guardian of his younger siblings, of whom he must look after: Alex, Sarah and Chelsea, ages 15, 12 and 4 respectively. Emma has never met the families of the people she dates, nor does she like dating men with kids. She is too afraid to love and only wants this to be a fling. But she has her own baggage to deal with (and not just the only 2 suitcases she takes with her everywhere): her narcissistic, neglectful mother Amber turns up, who tends to come in like a force of nature showering people with love and then leaves. But this time she says she has changed, Maddy doesn’t believe her but Emma desperately wants to. This is a past-tense first-person dual-POV story from Emma and Justin’s perspectives. OVERALL OPINIONS This is the first book I’ve read by Abby and honestly, I cannot believe I haven’t read her stuff sooner! I devoured most of this book in one day, which is when you can tell it’s a good one if you’re hooked that much. << Cameos from prior books >> For those who have read Abby’s work before, you will be sure to recognise some of the character cameos here: 🠚 Emma’s mother Amber, and Neil, both of whom are antagonists of Part of Your World 🠚 Daniel, Alexis, and Doug from Part of Your World are in this, too. I feel now I should have read Part of Your World first before this, but it is not essential: they can be read as a standalone because they are not “part of” (‘scuse the pun) the same series. Abby wanted to take the idea of Amber and “ran away” (‘scuse another pun) with the idea to give more depth to her. Knowing this now, I like it even more. << Writing >> I was only recently aware that Abby Jimenez tends to have bigger themes as part of her books and the romance tends to be more of a subplot. Thus, not knowing this, I was only expecting the summer romance to be the main element with probably some spice, because how else would a summer fling book be quite so long? I was very pleasantly surprised by how even the spice in the book was soft and sensual (crucial to the plot rather than being the plot), when they are vulnerable with each other, the amount of depth to the main characters Justin and Emma, the problems, the touching subjects, and the mature realistic way in which they both grieve and heal. Everything about this story, in fact, was very mature. 🠚 As well as the more serious notes, it was very amusing. Justin and Emma had great witty banter, there were some funny moments like when Emma and Maddy arrived at the cottage, the “proposal” on the bridge, and of course the Reddit posts in the prologue and epilogue. Also, the pun of calling a racoon George Cooney? Genius! The inside joke whenever they say “am I the asshole?” 🠚 Some beautiful descriptions too! Take this, for instance: The sky was crystal clear and the stars were out. The air was perfect. One of those nights where you couldn’t even feel it on your skin. The water lapped quietly on the shore and lightning flashed in the distance, some far-off storm, beautiful and ethereal, like the horizon of a different world. 🠚 Justin and Emma make a promise rather early on in the story that whenever they ask each other what they are feeling, they are to be honest with each other, even if it is brutally so. “So you and I are never going to bullshit each other. The stone-cold truth, on demand, no filter, whenever we want it.” – and I especially loved this aspect! Indeed, I really liked that there was no miscommunication trope in here, I feel it is rather overrated and can get annoying. This was a very mature approach to the story. 🠚 The very difficult subjects of parents who abandon their children, the damage they do, and the person their children become as a consequence were explored in this story and all handled very well. Most people have either encountered narcissists or know of them. And most people have encountered the avoidant attachment relationship style, especially in the current dating world, as touched upon by Abby herself in her Q&A author’s notes at the end of the story. It is good to make people aware of it, and show it is not okay, and making excuses for these people is also not okay. << Negatives >> I found nothing negative about this book. I can see why some people might find aspects negative: like if it felt too long, wanted more spice, or it simply wasn’t for them. But everything worked for me. I could argue the slowburn was quite slow. CHARACTERS -ˋˏ ꒰ Emma꒱ ˎˊ- ↳ I found Emma very relatable. She looks for the good in people, to a fault of course, and that is exactly what I’ve done too. Also, her saying “Nah. I want to finish my book.” when Maddy offers her a night out, GURL THIS IS SO ME! I also love her caring nature, it makes perfect sense as to why she is a good nurse. 🠚 She owns a soft toy of a unicorn named Stuffie, and I too have favourite soft toys from when I was a kid that serve as a comfort to me now. Again, this spoke to me. 🠚 The way she sees herself as insignificant is heartbreaking. This quote alone broke me: “Do well in school. Do my own laundry. Make my own food. Don’t ask for anything. Don’t need anything. Clean up after myself. Then after her. Be helpful. Be invisible. Be small.” 🠚 I was especially moved by Emma’s desire to be a better person than her mother ever was or could ever be. She did not want to run away every time she loves someone so worked on herself for six months to get through her traumas, heal, and come back to be able to stand her ground, show her love for others, and be an ever-present person in the Dahl family. It takes a strong person to do that, and I was so proud of her at the end of the book. *⁀➷ Favourite quotes • “In a world where you can choose anger or empathy, always choose empathy.” • “I’ve had a lot of bad things happen to me, Justin. I think sometimes the key to happiness is framing those things in a different way.” • My lack of permanence was my protection. I left people and places, so I didn’t have to play. If I didn’t play, I couldn’t lose. • It was so rare that anyone took care of me. It was rare I allowed it • Home wasn’t a place, it was a person. For me it was a whole family. • “I know it probably doesn’t matter, but I could meet you where you are now. I can meet all of you. I’ve filled my cracks. I don’t want to be an island. I want a village. I want lots of friends and lots of love in my life. I stayed somewhere for the first time without any plans to leave” -ˋˏ ꒰ Justin꒱ ˎˊ- ↳ He has my whole heart! He is so funny, a beautiful person both inside and out (dimples charm me every time), and I liked the very subtle references to him being a tech guy by having him very organised. Would have liked to have heard more about his work (being a former programmer myself), as this of course impacts him too but is glossed over. 🠚 The quirky surveys and spreadsheets, and evite invitations always made me laugh as much as Emma. Abby was inspired by the story of Graham McCarthy who sent a first-date questionnaire to Katrina Froese, a story that went viral . 🠚 Justin being thrown into the deep end of suddenly looking after his family was very relatable to me. This happened to me recently, and I too cannot understand how parents, especially single parents, manage such a thing. His serious set of circumstances gives him an edge to his otherwise funny and kind side. 🠚 It is so sweet how much he saves Emma in this story: like the way he looks after her when she is ill, but my heart melted when he made the time to go to Emma’s hospital to give her lunch – after she just experienced her own mother visit the hospital but did not come for her, she came for Neil. And when he mends Stuffie, Emma’s favourite soft toy. Ahh! GREEN FLAG! 🠚 AND LET’S NOT FORGET HIS DOG, BRAD! The grumpy, Brussels Griffon rescue dog. So cute haha! *⁀➷ Favourite quotes • Goodbye was the bane of my existence. I hated it. • “You are the only thing in my life making me happy right now. And I’m not the least bit afraid to tell you that.” • It’s funny how when you find someone you like as much as I liked her, the destination is suddenly wherever they are. Even if there’s someplace better, you wouldn’t go if they couldn’t come. • Everyone needed me, all the time. • “I’ve been waiting my whole life to feel like this and I thought it was a curse that nobody else ever worked out. But it wasn’t. It’s just that they weren’t you.” -ˋˏ ꒰ Maddy꒱ ˎˊ- ↳ Oh my goodness Maddy is the best. She sticks to her gut instincts and is pretty much always right about it – as admitted by Emma “Maddy had been right about that, like she was right about most things.”. Especially when it comes to other people’s intentions, like Emma’s mother. I related more to her than I did Emma. While I do try and see the best in people and hold onto false hope, I also know when to stop looking. I will also give people sage advice, and call things as I see it. I absolutely adored Maddy! (view spoiler) *⁀➷ Favourite quotes • “The FBI should hire more women. We’re natural investigators.” – YESSS!!! • “J-named men are the worst.” – Maddy knows where it’s at! • “You know, for someone that cute, he’s pretty funny,” • “I swear to God this guy is the epitome of If He Wanted To He Would.” • “That is a *good* man. You are going to fuck up if you let that go.” • “You have to manifest your own destiny.” OTHER FAV QUOTES • He went right in and gave me a hug. It was nothing but friendly. He didn’t hold me for longer than he should. But I found myself sort of wishing he would have. I needed the hug, I realized. And Justin was a *really* good hugger. Warm and firm, like he’d given and received a lot of hugs in his life. • “Unhealed trauma is a crack. And all the little hard things that trickle into it that would have rolled off someone else, settle. Then when life gets cold, that crack gets bigger, longer, deeper. It makes new breaks…Being broken is not an excuse for bad behavior, you still have to make good choices and do the right thing. But it can be the reason. And sometimes understanding the reason can be what helps you heal.” • He pulled me closer and kissed the top of my head. And for the first time maybe ever, I felt like I belonged somewhere. • “Sometimes I feel like the seasons could come and go and come and go, a hundred years could pass, a thousand, the ground could collapse under us, this house could crumble and go back to the earth, and we would still be standing here frozen in time, because every second I’m with you is eternal. I’ve never felt anything like it.” • And there wasn’t a day that went by that I didn’t feel her absence like a void in my soul. I missed her like I missed the sun in the winter. • But that’s not what real grown-up relationships are like. They’re like this. Being mature enough to know your limits, and adult enough to accept when someone tells you what they are. • “You know,” he said, “if the curse is true, the next person you date is going to be your soulmate.” I smiled. “The next person you date’s going to be yours too.” He cupped my face in his palms. “I was wondering if you’d like to go out with me sometime,” he whispered. “Four dates. A kiss. No breakup.” I laughed, the tears starting to well again. “Not just for the summer?” “No. Forever this time.” ══════════ ⋆★⋆ ══════════ I am honoured to have been selected as an ARC reader for this book, and I’d like to thank Abby Jimenez, NetGalley and Piatkus for the opportunity. This has not affected my opinion in any way.

╰┈➤ 5 stars! "and for the first time maybe ever, i felt like i belonged somewhere." i’m not even kidding—i want this entire series embedded in my soul. i can't wrap my head around the fact that i'm finished with the series because it had been one of ride. i loved every second of it, and how it showed me that if someone truly loves you, they'll meet you wherever you are. this book did not disappoint! it was the main reason i was hesitant to read AJ’s books, but it turned out to be one of the best, and i regret not picking it up sooner. i wish someone pushed me to read this, but i read it while i still wasn't that active on gr! ౨ৎ emma. her character has been through so much. i just want to give her the biggest hug and reassure her that she’s so loved. i’ve always known trauma looks different for everyone, but this is the first time i’ve read a story that portrays it like this. if you’d told me this book tackled so many sensitive topics, i wouldn’t have believed you—but there it was. i read it with my own eyes. emma struggled with so many things, and i can’t imagine how hard it was to live constantly in a flight response. i admit that there were times when i didn’t like how she reacted—she could’ve handled things more like the adult she was—but i guess that’s not something i can hold against her because it could've been the best decision for her in her own perspective. ౨ৎ justin. this man literally made me fall in love. from the start, he showed signs that he's such a funny and lovable man. this man had me on a chokehold!! i wouldn't want to take the opportunity of you realizing how great of a man he is, so i won't dive into the details as to why he is. all throughout the story, my eyes was probably in heart-shaped because of how charming he can be! other than his good sides, i totally get him for having a hard time choosing empathy (coming from an empathetic person), but he managed to came around because of the new perspectives he had gotten. as someone who had been given responsibilities that aren't meant to be mine, i totally get him. i can truly vouch for it. it gets overwhelming most of the time just by thinking about it, and it's tough to accept because you really have to put yourself last. i can truly relate to him. overall, i freaking LOVED this book. basically, the series itself. it opened my eyes to things, gave me new perspectives on how i can look at things. with that said, i'll definitely recommend AJ's books to anyone with the hope of seeing this series the same way i see it because it's honestly one of the best. i enjoyed reading it so much, like i wasn't even aware that i was so close to the ending. i could not stress this enough, abby jimenez, you are so great and i love love love your books so much. ౨ৎ favorite lines/quotes: "I was barely getting enough of her for me." "I swear to God this guy is the epitome of If He Wanted To He Would." "Even if it was just a tiny moment in a long lifetime of moments, I was happy to be a part of it." "You are the only thing in my life making me happy right now. And I'm not the least bit afraid to tell you that." "Sometimes your traumas are the reason you know how to help." "Sometimes I feel like the seasons could come and go, a hundred years could pass, a thousand, the ground could collapse under us, this house could crumble and go back to earth, and we could still be standing here frozen in time, because every second I'm with you is eternal. I've never felt anything like it."

How does Abby Jimenez continue to write the most perfect fictional men!!?! Seriously??? The meet cute in this one is so cute because they actual first message each other over reddit because both of then think they're "cursed" because everyone they date finds "the one" after dating then. So, they chat a lot and then decide to date each other to break this curse and find the one for them after they break up after the summer. The way Justin and Emma are sooo smitten with each other and literally never want their dates to end was just adorable and I was so in love with them. But they are both dealing with so much in their personal lives in their families and I was so invested in how they would find their HEA not only with each other but in their own lives. I listened to this audiobook in one day and it's easily going to be one of my favorite books of the year. Zachary Webber is a genius when he narrates, especially when it's an Abby Jimenez book, and I could not recommend listening to this book enough!!

HOW ARE PPL BORED BY THIS BOOK????? i sat down and read this in three hours. i was not bored no no. this man- this MAN- emphasis on man- puts the fictional in fictional boyfriend. i will be thinking about him all week. goodbye guys, off to go do that now. i will be unable to be reached. miss me.

** spoiler alert ** 6 stars!! 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 (Spoilers! 💝💝🙉🧡) જ⁀➴"I was wondering if you'd like to go out with me sometime," he whispered. "Four dates. A kiss. No breakup." I laughed, the tears starting to well again. "Not just for the summer?" "No. Forever this time.” ☀︎⋆.ೃ࿔*:･ I’m IN LOVE with this book and EVERYTHING IN IT. If a book can make me cry, squeal, laugh, and on top of that give me a good twist.. I GIVE IT A SIX STAR IMMEDIATELY. 👏🏼👏🏼🥹♥️♥️ Okay, starting off strong.. JUSTIN. THIS MAN. 😭😭😭😭 …so Maddy was 100% correct when she said, "I swear to God this guy is the epitome of If He Wanted To He Would." 💯👏🏼 He held Emma when she needed to be held, he listened to her when she needed to be heard, And he was there for her for when it got too heavy, 🥺 EVEN WHEN he had so much to carry himself, 😭😭🙌🏼 So much was put on him, taking care of his siblings, taking care of himself, having a job and all while being with Emma they made it work 🤝😭 He dropped everything and went to her when she needed him, even when she didn’t ask for help, he knew. ❤️‍🩹🥺 THIS MAN took care of her, emotionally and physically. And that alone had me internally screaming at the book 😭 IF MY MAN ISNT LIKE JUSTIN IM THROWING HANDSSSS🤺🤺🤺🤺 “𝘽𝙪𝙩 𝙛𝙤𝙧 𝙀𝙢𝙢𝙖, 𝙄 𝙬𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙 𝙢𝙖𝙠𝙚 𝙩𝙞𝙢𝙚. 𝙄𝙩 𝙬𝙖𝙨𝙣'𝙩 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙣 𝙖 𝙦𝙪𝙚𝙨𝙩𝙞𝙤𝙣. 𝙄 𝙬𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙 𝙛𝙞𝙩 𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙞𝙣𝙩𝙤 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙘𝙤𝙢𝙥𝙡𝙞𝙘𝙖𝙩𝙚𝙙 𝙬𝙚𝙗 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙢𝙮 𝙡𝙞𝙛𝙚. 𝘽𝙚𝙘𝙖𝙪𝙨𝙚 𝙬𝙝𝙚𝙣 𝙮𝙤𝙪'𝙧𝙚 𝙞𝙣 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚, 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙙𝙤 𝙝𝙖𝙧𝙙 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜𝙨. 𝘼𝙣𝙙 𝙣𝙤𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙖𝙗𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙖𝙣𝙮𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙚𝙖𝙨𝙮 𝙧𝙞𝙜𝙝𝙩 𝙣𝙤𝙬.” THIS. IS. LOVE. 😭😭 TRUE LOVE. 👏🏼👏🏼 ~And Emma!!! I litterally wanted to jump into this book and give her the biggest hug 🫂❤️‍🩹🥲 The traumas and anxieties she goes through this book was so heartbreaking to read 😓 It broke my heart when she kept talking about her mom, and how much she dealt with growing up, and with not getting too attached with anything. Getting the reasoning and the actual depth on why, was ouch. 🤕 I’m just so happy at the end she got to get better and work on herself,🥹 The little message in this book is so powerful, That with healing also means having to let go people who hold you back.. ❤️‍🩹 And these are a couple quotes I’m definitely taking with me after reading: "𝗪𝗵𝘆 𝗻𝗼𝘁 𝗳𝗼𝗿𝗴𝗶𝘃𝗲? 𝗜𝗻 𝗮 𝘄𝗼𝗿𝗹𝗱 𝘄𝗵𝗲𝗿𝗲 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗰𝗮𝗻 𝗰𝗵𝗼𝗼𝘀𝗲 𝗮𝗻𝗴𝗲𝗿 𝗼𝗿 𝗲𝗺𝗽𝗮𝘁𝗵𝘆, 𝗮𝗹𝘄𝗮𝘆𝘀 𝗰𝗵𝗼𝗼𝘀𝗲 𝗲𝗺𝗽𝗮𝘁𝗵𝘆.”🙂‍↕️ "𝘜𝘯𝘩𝘦𝘢𝘭𝘦𝘥 𝘵𝘳𝘢𝘶𝘮𝘢 𝘪𝘴 𝘢 𝘤𝘳𝘢𝘤𝘬. 𝘈𝘯𝘥 𝘢𝘭𝘭 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘭𝘪𝘵𝘵𝘭𝘦 𝘩𝘢𝘳𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨𝘴 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘵𝘳𝘪𝘤𝘬𝘭𝘦 𝘪𝘯𝘵𝘰 𝘪𝘵 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘸𝘰𝘶𝘭𝘥 𝘩𝘢𝘷𝘦 𝘳𝘰𝘭𝘭𝘦𝘥 𝘰𝘧𝘧 𝘴𝘰𝘮𝘦𝘰𝘯𝘦 𝘦𝘭𝘴𝘦, 𝘴𝘦𝘵𝘵𝘭𝘦. 𝘛𝘩𝘦𝘯 𝘸𝘩𝘦𝘯 𝘭𝘪𝘧𝘦 𝘨𝘦𝘵𝘴 𝘤𝘰𝘭𝘥, 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘤𝘳𝘢𝘤𝘬 𝘨𝘦𝘵𝘴 𝘣𝘪𝘨𝘨𝘦𝘳, 𝘭𝘰𝘯𝘨𝘦𝘳, 𝘥𝘦𝘦𝘱𝘦𝘳. 𝘐𝘵 𝘮𝘢𝘬𝘦𝘴 𝘯𝘦𝘸 𝘣𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘬𝘴. 𝘠𝘰𝘶 𝘥𝘰𝘯'𝘵 𝘬𝘯𝘰𝘸 𝘩𝘰𝘸 𝘣𝘳𝘰𝘬𝘦𝘯 𝘴𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘰𝘳 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘴𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘵𝘳𝘺𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘵𝘰 𝘥𝘰 𝘵𝘰 𝘧𝘪𝘭𝘭 𝘵𝘩𝘰𝘴𝘦 𝘤𝘳𝘢𝘤𝘬𝘴. 𝘉𝘦𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘣𝘳𝘰𝘬𝘦𝘯 𝘪𝘴 𝘯𝘰𝘵 𝘢𝘯 𝘦𝘹𝘤𝘶𝘴𝘦 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘣𝘢𝘥 𝘣𝘦𝘩𝘢𝘷𝘪𝘰𝘳, 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘴𝘵𝘪𝘭𝘭 𝘩𝘢𝘷𝘦 𝘵𝘰 𝘮𝘢𝘬𝘦 𝘨𝘰𝘰𝘥 𝘤𝘩𝘰𝘪𝘤𝘦𝘴 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘥𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘳𝘪𝘨𝘩𝘵 𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨. 𝘉𝘶𝘵 𝘪𝘵 𝘤𝘢𝘯 𝘣𝘦 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘴𝘰𝘯. 𝘈𝘯𝘥 𝘴𝘰𝘮𝘦𝘵𝘪𝘮𝘦𝘴 𝘶𝘯𝘥𝘦𝘳𝘴𝘵𝘢𝘯𝘥𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘴𝘰𝘯 𝘤𝘢𝘯 𝘣𝘦 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘩𝘦𝘭𝘱𝘴 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘩𝘦𝘢𝘭.” "𝙔𝙤𝙪 𝙘𝙖𝙣 𝙨𝙩𝙞𝙡𝙡 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙨𝙤𝙢𝙚𝙤𝙣𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙮𝙤𝙪'𝙫𝙚 𝙙𝙚𝙘𝙞𝙙𝙚𝙙 𝙣𝙤𝙩 𝙩𝙤 𝙨𝙥𝙚𝙖𝙠 𝙩𝙤 𝙖𝙣𝙮𝙢𝙤𝙧𝙚. 𝙔𝙤𝙪 𝙘𝙖𝙣 𝙨𝙩𝙞𝙡𝙡 𝙬𝙞𝙨𝙝 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢 𝙬𝙚𝙡𝙡 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙝𝙤𝙥𝙚 𝙛𝙤𝙧 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙗𝙚𝙨𝙩 𝙛𝙤𝙧 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢. 𝘾𝙝𝙤𝙤𝙨𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙖 𝙡𝙞𝙛𝙚 𝙬𝙞𝙩𝙝𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢 𝙙𝙤𝙚𝙨𝙣'𝙩 𝙢𝙚𝙖𝙣 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙨𝙩𝙤𝙥 𝙘𝙖𝙧𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙖𝙗𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢. 𝙄𝙩 𝙟𝙪𝙨𝙩 𝙢𝙚𝙖𝙣𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙘𝙖𝙣'𝙩 𝙖𝙡𝙡𝙤𝙬 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢 𝙩𝙤 𝙝𝙖𝙧𝙢 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙖𝙣𝙮𝙢𝙤𝙧𝙚. 𝘽𝙪𝙩 𝙞𝙛 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙙𝙤𝙣'𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙠 𝙮𝙤𝙪𝙧 𝙡𝙞𝙛𝙚 𝙬𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙 𝙗𝙚 𝙗𝙚𝙩𝙩𝙚𝙧 𝙬𝙞𝙩𝙝𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢 𝙞𝙣 𝙞𝙩, 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙣 𝙖𝙘𝙘𝙚𝙥𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙮 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙘𝙧𝙖𝙘𝙠𝙨. 𝙏𝙧𝙮 𝙩𝙤 𝙪𝙣𝙙𝙚𝙧𝙨𝙩𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙝𝙤𝙬 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙮 𝙜𝙤𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙝𝙚𝙡𝙥 𝙛𝙞𝙡𝙡 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢 𝙬𝙞𝙩𝙝 𝙨𝙤𝙢𝙚𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙞𝙨𝙣'𝙩 𝙞𝙘𝙚." {Abby’s writing in this was phenomenal ⬆️😭} Overall, as you could tell I loved this book with my whole heart, the depiction of overcoming traumas, mental health, falling in love, friendships and having the right people beside you was just so amazing to read, Anything that Abby writes is magic and so impactful, this is definitely not my last book from hers 🙂‍↔️♥️♥️ ⭐️~Rating: 5/5 🔥Spice: 1/5 (minor- descriptive) 📚age rating: 15+ ________________ 🎧Playlist: Renegade~Big Red Machine, Taylor Swift I know You~Faye Webster Godspeed~Frank Ocean Feels like~Gracie Abrams Packing it up~Gracie Abrams Unsteady~Gracie Abrams Satellite~Harry Styles Do I wanna know?~Hozier Irish Goodbye~Kacey Musgraves Too Good To Be True~Kacey Musgraves We’ll never have sex~Leith Ross Spring Into Summer~Lizzy McAlpine LOVE LOOKS PRETTY ON YOU~Nessa Barrett July~Noah Cyrus The Grudge~Olivia Rodrigo Motion Sickness~Phoebe Bridgers Where’s My Love{Alternate Version}~SYML Foolish one~Taylor Swift Peace~Taylor Swift this is me trying~Taylor Swift Invisible String~Taylor Swift Labyrinth~Taylor Swift You’re on your own, kid~Taylor Swift You Are In Love~Taylor Swift Only One~The Neighborly Hugging You~(Acoustic) Tom Rosenthal, Billie Marten 💌Favorite Quotes: ~"I don't have the space for them. And I know that it hurts people, but it's just who I am. And it makes me feel like a horrible person." (⬆️little moments like these made Emma feel relatable 🥲) ~ ‘Then we just gazed at each other. A comfortable silence. A safe one. And for the second time tonight Justin was inside my personal space. I didn't mind him there. At all.’ ~ ‘I took her hand and did my best to make my face straight. People were already stopping to watch. I made my voice low so only she could hear it. "Emma, would you do me the honor of delousing my family with me?" She snorted. I looked at her passionately. "Say yes, Please say yes. I want to spend the rest of my evening with you." She was trying not to laugh. "You are the worst..." (⬆️THIS TOOK ME OUT LOLLL 😭😭😭) ~ "Could be Taco Bell," Jacob said, giving his wife a playful eyebrow. She gasped and gave him an amused look. "Well, now you have to take me there for dinner. See what you've done?" He chuckled.’ (⬆️BRI AND JACOB APPEARANCE AAAAA) ~ ‘It was weird that I knew that. That if I needed him, he would be there and he wouldn't be bothered by it no matter how late or inconvenient the time. No...not just if I needed him. If I wanted him, he would be there. It didn't have to be important. He would be there for anything and any reason. And I knew that. (⬆️🥲) ~ ‘I felt the stirring of something in my belly so rare to me I could count the occurrences of it on one hand. Justin was on the island. Not the real one. The one in my soul. My eyes teared up at the realization. I didn't know how to process it. It scared me, and I didn't know what it meant or what I should do now or how it would change things. But suddenly nothing was the same. (⬆️ her realization of Justin being her safe space😭😭) ~”Stay. Please. Just to see what happens. See where it goes. I'll take anything a couple of months, a couple of weeks, whatever you'll give me. Meet me where I am because I can't go to you. I would if I could. I'd follow you anywhere if I was able to, but I can't. Please," he said again. "Stay?" (⬆️he was YEARNING for her 💔😭) ~ ‘I never fell for anyone. I never let anyone close enough to try. I didn't let Justin close enough to try either, but he'd managed to get there anyway. Maybe there was never any other way it could have gone. He was always going to be this for me. And now we were in a kiss that was more than a kiss, and I didn't want him to kiss anyone else. Ever. I didn't want to be kissed by anyone else. Ever.’ (⬆️and I was holding back tears at this scene🥲) ~ "Justin, I think something is wrong with me. Like there's something in me, in my heart, that doesn't work right." He peered at me gently. "What doesn't work right?" I pressed my lips together trying to keep the crying under control. "It's like there's a part of me that's always small," I whispered. "And I don't know why and I don't know what to do about it." ~ ‘He put his forehead to mine and whispered and soothed me, even though he didn't know what I was crying about. But I did. It was about love. I was falling in love.’ (⬆️this whole part had be cryingggg) ~ "Justin, I like you more than I've ever liked anyone. And it scares me." “I like you more than I've ever liked anyone too." He paused. "I like you more than like." We held each other's gaze. "I like you more than like too," I said quietly. His face went soft. And then he leaned down and kissed me. It felt like a promise. A vow of some sort, even though I didn't know what it was for.’ ~ ‘I felt like I could stay in this moment forever. Like it was timeless because of how absolutely perfect it was. And yet there was nothing perfect about it. Not in the traditional sense. We were in pajamas. We weren't on a date, standing under the moon. We were next to a sink full of dirty dishes and a crusty waffle iron. There wasn't music playing or candlelight or rose petals. But it was perfect. I wouldn't have changed a single thing about it. He put a hand to my cheek. "Sometimes I feel like the seasons could come and go and come and go, a hundred years could pass, a thousand, the ground could collapse under us, this house could crumble and go back to the earth, and we would still be standing here frozen in time, because every second I'm with you is eternal, I’ve never felt anything like it." (⬆️🥹) ~ "I want you to know that your empathy is beautiful, Emma. I hope you never lose that. I do hope that one day you get some boundaries though." I laughed a little but she didn't smile. "You cannot keep caring about her more than you care about yourself." (⬆️Maddy was such a good friend 🫂) ~ "You deserve to be appreciated, Emma." "I think I'm just used to feeling like I'm asking too much when I need something. Unless it's Maddy. My mom-“ "You're not asking too much," he said. "You were just asking the wrong person. Ask me instead." (⬆️🥲) ~ "Emma, I'm Alexis, Daniel's wife. This is our daughter, Victoria. Your niece." The word "niece" made a lump bolt to my throat. (⬆️my jaw was DROPPED but also feels so right that Daniel is her brother 🥹🥰) ~ "Emma, I'm going to tell you something. And I don’t need you to say anything, I just need you to hear it. I’m love with you. I've been in love with you since the moment I laid my eyes on you. And I know we haven't known each other long, but I don't care, because it's true and it's there, and it doesn't matter to me if it makes sense or not. I've been waiting my whole life to feel like this and I thought it was a curse that nobody else ever worked out. But it wasn't. It’s just that they weren't you." (⬆️this had me cryingggg iykyk) ~ I didn't lose my beautiful empathy Maddy called it once. I still believed what I always had, that people are complex and nothing is black and white. I believed that now more than ever. ~ ‘Justin was right. Home wasn't a place, it was a person. For me it was a whole family.’ ~ I'd realized something after being with her. A valuable lesson that I think all the best and most enduring romances have figured out. The love stories sold us the wrong thing. The best kind of love doesn't happen on moonlit walks and romantic vacations. It happens in between the folds of everyday life. It's not grand gestutes that show how you feel, it's all the litle secret things you do to make her life better that you never tell her about… It isn't glamorous, it isn't all butterflies and stars in your eyes. It's real. This is the kind of love that forever is made of. Because if it's this good when life is draining and mundane and hard, think of how wonderful it will be when the love songs are playing and the moon is out. ~ "I would stay forever if you asked me," I whispered "Then stay.” ~’Update: I did it. She loved it. She said yes.’ (⬆️and I’m crying brb)

Just for the Summer completely stole my heart!!!!! ❤️What started out as a fun, quirky premise turned into one of the most emotional and beautifully written stories I've ever read!! 🥹😭Abby Jimenez perfectly captures the complexities of trauma, healing, family, and love. And OMG, Justin and Emma's slow-burn romance was everything🫶!! From funny, tender, vulnerable, and so breathtakingly REAL! I laughed, cried, swooned, and genuinely felt like I was living the story with them. 💗💗💗💗💗 Synopsis: Justin is cursed-every woman he dates finds her soulmate... right after they break up. When Emma messages him with the same problem, they agree to date and break up, hoping to cancel their curses once and for all. It's just a summer fling. A charming cottage on a private island. No feelings. No strings. But then life gets messy, Justin becomes guardian to his siblings, Emma's past shows up uninvited, and their fake fling starts to feel achingly real. Maybe fate didn't curse them. Maybe it led them to each other. "In a world where you can choose anger or empathy, always choose empathy." This isn't just a love story!! It's about choosing empathy, about forgiveness, and about finding beauty in the broken places. Please do yourself a favor and read this book!!!! This book is an instant MASTERPIECE and has a permanent home on my favorites shelf!!! I honestly don't know how Jimenez will ever top this story!!!! ALL THE INFINITE STARS!!!♾️♾️💫💫💫💫💫

*Edit for those asking you don't NEED to read the first two books first, this can be read as a standalone but this wouldn't of had the same impact for me without reading the other two first* I am speechless. 24 hour read. My new favourite of the Part Of Your World Series (how is that even possible). Wonderful characters, deep seeded emotional trauma written in the best way, incredible supporting characters and the BEST plot twist. This is my new ‘it book’. 6 stars

i need whatever they have. ASAP. bestie buket choose this one and it’s one of her fav ones so i have to make her proud by loving it 🫡 also the cover is SO PRETTY 😻🧡

CRYIBG SHAKING THROWING UP ITS SO GOOD & I hurt my heart like 100000 times in the best way

✰✰✰✰✰!!! one of the easiest five stars this year. where do i even begin...This was mine and claces most antisipated romance book of 2024 we waited for it to first be summer then for clace to get his book delivered and then we realised this was the third book of a series so obviously for the *best* experience we read ・❥・part of your world and yours truly ・❥・ ( both have reviews posted btw!) Before we started the book clace said "when u really like a book you cry reading it" I CRIED. This ones going to be a long review and im forming my thoughts as i write. ・❥・Emma our FMC was funny,charismatic, loveable, caring and a bit cliche but lit up every soom she walked into. I adored her strength her patience and positivity towards anything life throws at her. '𝐢𝐟 𝐲𝐨𝐮 𝐡𝐚𝐯𝐞 𝐭𝐨 𝐜𝐡𝐨𝐨𝐬𝐞 𝐛𝐞𝐭𝐰𝐞𝐞𝐧 𝐚𝐧𝐠𝐞𝐫 𝐨𝐫 𝐞𝐦𝐩𝐚𝐭𝐡𝐲, 𝐚𝐥𝐰𝐚𝐲𝐬 𝐜𝐡𝐨𝐨𝐬𝐞 𝐞𝐦𝐩𝐚𝐭𝐡𝐲" i found myself smiling at many things the characters said throughout the book, it was beautifully written. this book wrote love somewhat like emily henry writes it, realistic, painful but most of all patient. love is patient love is the one that shows up or as Abby wrote ”t𝐡𝐞 𝐛𝐞𝐬𝐭 𝐤𝐢𝐧𝐝 𝐨𝐟 𝐥𝐨𝐯𝐞 𝐝𝐨𝐞𝐬𝐧’𝐭 𝐡𝐚𝐩𝐩𝐞𝐧 𝐨𝐧 𝐦𝐨𝐨𝐧𝐥𝐢𝐭 𝐰𝐚𝐥𝐤𝐬 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐫𝐨𝐦𝐚𝐧𝐭𝐢𝐜 𝐯𝐚𝐜𝐚𝐭𝐢𝐨𝐧𝐬. 𝐈𝐭 𝐡𝐚𝐩𝐩𝐞𝐧𝐬 𝐢𝐧 𝐛𝐞𝐭𝐰𝐞𝐞𝐧 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐟𝐨𝐥𝐝𝐬 𝐨𝐟 𝐞𝐯𝐞𝐫𝐲𝐝𝐚𝐲 𝐥𝐢𝐟𝐞.𝐢𝐟 𝐢𝐭’𝐬 𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐬 𝐠𝐨𝐨𝐝 𝐰𝐡𝐞𝐧 𝐥𝐢𝐟𝐞 𝐢𝐬 𝐝𝐫𝐚𝐢𝐧𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐦𝐮𝐧𝐝𝐚𝐧𝐞 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐝, 𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐧𝐤 𝐨𝐟 𝐡𝐨𝐰 𝐰𝐨𝐧𝐝𝐞𝐫𝐟𝐮𝐥 𝐢𝐭 𝐰𝐢𝐥𝐥 𝐛𝐞 𝐰𝐡𝐞𝐧 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐥𝐨𝐯𝐞 𝐬𝐨𝐧𝐠𝐬 𝐚𝐫𝐞 𝐩𝐥𝐚𝐲𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐦𝐨𝐨𝐧 𝐢𝐬 𝐨𝐮𝐭.” Emmas trauma was also well written, its not always there but like a shadow following you building up and waiting for the smallest thing to trigger it and cause the dam to break. Her pov made me feel the smotions she felt butterflies, anxiety and all. ・❥・ Justin; so this man is 6 ft+ has a DIMPLE...is funny caring charming HE MAKES QUESTIONAIRES he smells good has good hair AND he always shows up??? alright abby ik hes fictional but the men you write are out of this world impossible ( im still knee deep in love with them ) i loved Daniel from book 1 jacob from book 2 and ding ding dingggg i loveddd justin. I want to wife this man up fr he was so perfect with emma and her issues while dealing with all of his. i could write wayy more but on to the extra chrctrs. ・❥・Maddy + children were so fun to read about i dint like how bitchy maddy was in the beginning but boyyyyy was she right. ( i want a maddy too) the kids were so cute and i loved their relationship with justin and Emma. ・❥・ AMBER WHEN I CATCH YOU. She deserves torture...brutal torture. ・❥・ lastly the plot twist at ch 40 was INSANEEEE ( me and clace are blind for not catching on earlier but yes anyways) i genuinely screamed so loud when the realisation hit lolll. I highly recommend this book and hope everyone who reads it does too. ⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ OH MY GOD. review to come eheheh <3 ⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆⋆ ˚｡ ⋆୨♡୧⋆ ˚｡ ⋆ FINALLYYY its timeee!!! buddy read of the third book of part of your world series with clace <3

𓍢ִ໋🌷͙֒ ᰔᩚ 5 stars ꒰ spoiler free review ⊹₊ ⋆ ⊹₊ “maybe there was never any other way is should have gone. he was always going to be this for me.”₊ ⊹ ➵ wow okay so this is definitely going to be a favorite of the year for me!! this story follows emma, whos a travel nurse and has never really allowed herself to settle down and be in love. she has a "curse" where she is always the girl before the one. every guy she ever dates breaks up with her to move on to his soulmate. when she sees a Reddit post about a guy going through the same thing, she strikes up a conversation and the next thing they know they have formed a plan : they need to go through four dates, a kiss, and a breakup. then, they will move on to find the love of their life. but the plan goes wrong (of course it does), and suddenly they start to develop feelings for each other... ➵ this book was precious as well as heartbreaking. at one moment i would be giggling over their cute interactions and dates, and then the next moment i would be sobbing from their struggles. that's one thing i love about abby jiminez is that she makes her characters so human. emma is dealing with her toxic mother in town, who was neglectful and horrible to her, and justin is suddenly taking custody of his three siblings in result of his mother going to jail. 😭 it was definitely hard to read at times but i'm so glad everything worked out for the two of them at the end. 𓍢ִ໋🫐 characters 𝜗𝜚˚⋆ emma : 𐙚₊˚⊹excellent fun til you get to know her, then she runs like a race꒱ ₊˚⊹ ᰔ. i'm convinced "the bolter" by taylor swift was written about emma. as soon as someone gets close enough to her to love her, she bolts because that's all she's ever known (cough cough from her asshole mother) i feel for her so much, and i see myself in her in a way. the end was so powerful for her and it honestly made me cry. i'm so proud of her and i adore her with my everything ♡ justin : 𐙚₊˚⊹in a world of boys he's a gentleman꒱ ₊˚⊹ ᰔ. he's literally the definition of IF HE WANTED TO, HE WOULD!! he was such an adorable, golden retriever mmc and honestly might be one of my new fav abby jiminez book bfs??!! watching how loving he is with both emma and his siblings. he's to die for !! emma + justin : 𐙚₊˚⊹you came out of the blue like that, i never could've seen you coming, i think you're everything i've wanted꒱ ₊˚⊹ ᰔ. i've said it once, i'll say it again. i'll forever be a sucker for the trope where the girl thinks she's unloveable and the boy loves her unconditionally. 🥹♡ they are so sweet together, and i absolutely adore them. i love the realistic aspect of them. there's one quote that perfectly describes this, and i'll add it to the end of this review because it honestly makes me tear up reading it. taking care of each other when they are sick, being there for each other when they need it most, etc. it's so raw and real, just like real life and that's my favorite books to read about ♡ "justin was so familiar. like i was dating a boy i grew up with and i hadn't seen him in a few years and when i did, he'd turned into someone irresistible" 𓍢ִ໋ 🧸ྀི final thoughts and opinions 𝜗𝜚˚⋆ this book was so good and there was absolutely nothing wrong with it. which sounds crazy to say because i usually have at least one critique, but i don't for this one. (actually i do, why couldn't this have been a thousand pages long?? i need more of them omg!!) in all seriousness, i might bump this up to a five star by the end of the year but i guess we will see! this quote is for the acts of service girlies ! <3 the best kind of love doesn't happen on moonlit walks and romantic vacations. it happens in between the folds of everyday life. it's not grand gestures that show how you feel, it's all the little secret things you do to make her life better that you never tell her about. taking the end piece of the bread at breakfast so she can have the last middle piece for her sandwhich when you pack her lunch. making sure her car always has gas so she never has to stop at the pump. telling her you're not cold and to take your jacket when you are in fact, very, very cold. it's watching TV on a rainy Sunday while you're doing laundry and turning her light off when she's fallen asleep reading. sharing pizza crusts and laughing about something the kids did and taking care of each other when you're sick. it isn't glamourous, it isn't all butterflies and stars in your eyes. it's real. this is the kind of love that forever is made of. because if it's this good when it's draining and mundane and hard, think of how wonderful it will be when the love songs are playing and the moon is out. ♡♡ BRB IM SOBBING JKSJGKSKGSJ

Abby strikes again!! 👍 Giving away all the stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Loved this book ❤️ From the characters, to the settings, to the plot. 😍 Such a great series!!! 🤗

Justin and Emma have one pivotal thing in common - every person they date goes on to find their soulmate next. To break this never ending cycle, they decide to date each another for the Summer in hopes this will lead them each to find their own HEA. This is the perfect Summer read. A blend of romance and contemporary fiction, this book is will leave you smiling from ear to ear. Abby Jimenez writes such amazing characters and then puts them into relatable situations, allowing the reader to form easy connections to them. Add in her “Easter eggs” she is known for, and it is clear why this has gotten such rave reviews. I loved the premise here. Wholly unique and fun, it offered many laugh-out-loud moments as well as some emotional ones as these two navigate “dating” while also managing complex familial dynamics. As always, the mental health rep is spot on, and while important, doesn’t detract from the overall but instead enhances it. If you are looking for a swoony, heartwarming read with great characters and an element of found family, look no further. Read if you like: • summer romance • fake dating • found family • small town romance • cinnamon roll hero • great mental health rep ‼️ This is an interconnected standalone. It’s best to read Part of Your World and Yours Truly first for the best reading experience. Thank you Forever Pub and Hachette Audio for the gifted copies.

Fan girl moment from this ol' girl when I secured one of the first holds on the audio version of this one. It's sad to realise I don't have many books left unread by Harlan Coben, I have a couple on my shelf that fit into this category. Harlan Coben is my favourite author, and this book affirmed by delight and position of this important title. A quick pace, likeable characters, an over the top but not too much so plot, all delivered with that frenetic and comedic style I have become accustomed to with HC. No matter what the subject matter, whether it’s one of my favourite series or a standalone, I know it is he as I read along. I think it is the one liners, the barbs (boy are they razor sharp), the whip smart banter that seem to be a part of each of this author’s books. Married couple David and Cheryl are floundering for many reasons, David has turned to the bottle and Cheryl is distanced from him, they are lying to each other and have lost their love. When their son is three he is found bludgeoned to death in this bed. Eventually blame lands on David, and he takes this, reminiscent of Lindy Chamberlain in Australia. Showing no emotion in court, therefore the judgement of the world falling heavily on his shoulders. Imprisoned for life, refusing visitors and accepting his fate. Learning to defend himself, it seems he has survived thus far. Life turns sharply when David’s sister-in-law Rachel turns up unannounced. What she has to say will spur David to emerge from his languor and fight for his son and his freedom. Much of this fell into place; but this did not matter. I was spurred on for David and Rachel to fight the good fight, turn the tables on the awful privileged rich folk and solve this heinous crime. David was a fighter who appeared to have given up, and his partner in crime Rachel was good value. I loved these characters, hated many of the others and did not have an affinity for Cheryl or the man she later married while David was in prison. A worthy 5 HC stars. As I say he is my favourite author, but I don’t rate 5 usually. This one hit the mark and I loved the fun ride.

Five years ago, David Burroughs was a dedicated stay-at-home father to his three year old son, Matthew. Living in a nice suburban house on an idyllic cul de sac, it seemed that life was pretty good for both him and his surgeon wife, Cheryl. That is, until he woke up in the middle of the night to an ominous silence. Exploring the house, he found Matthew bludgeoned to death in his very own bed. As the police started to investigate, all attention was focused on finding the monster who would harm a young child. Before he realized it, however, David found the police department’s sights set directly on him. Devastated by Matthew’s death, he couldn’t bother with protesting his innocence as he was first charged and then convicted with the very crime that had stolen his soul. After all, Matthew was dead. Half a decade into his lifetime sentence, David has distanced himself from everyone in his life that once mattered to him. No longer getting any visitors, he’s surprised one day when his now ex-wife’s sister, Rachel demands to see him. In her possession is a photograph that, if true, could change everything. For on the edge of the frame is an eight year old boy that bears a startling resemblance to his supposedly dead son, Matthew. Determined to get to the bottom of the truth now that David is certain that Matthew is actually alive, he attempts the impossible—a prison escape. Only one thing matters to him now—finding Matthew and discovering what really happened all those years ago. Hopefully, at the same time he’ll manage to clear his own name. But with an equally determined FBI agent on his tail, will David be able to piece it all together to learn the truth before he ends up back in prison—or dead? Oh. My. God. After watching the Netflix series based on Fool Me Once, I knew that I just had to get my hands on one of Coben’s novels. Needless to say, I Will Find You was exactly what I hoped for when I first learned of the author’s startling genius. Filled to the brim with deep-seated lies, well-hidden secrets, and one altogether epic game of cat-and-mouse, I was won over completely by this dynamite hole in one. Told via multiple POVs that read much like an omniscient perspective, the plot was simply sublime. An adrenaline-fueled drive from beginning to end that kept me on the edge of my seat, there wasn’t a moment where the action let up. So much so that it was difficult to gauge when the snowballing suspense ended and the climax began. Throw in the head-snapping twists and hairpin turns and my love for Coben was sudden and sure. As for the characters, I was particularly fond of David and the FBI agent in charge. The former felt true-to-life with his undying love for his son while the the latter was a far cry from a bumbling investigator. Typically in books of this kind, the detective or FBI agent simply doesn’t have a clue. With this one, however, he and his perfectly matched partner seemed just a step behind their prey in this ultimate battle of wits. All said and done, with palpable tension and acutely timed reveals, I Will Find You took me on the ride of my life. To be frank, between the snarky banter and intricate plot, there just wasn’t much not to love. An expertly engineered, well-written novel, this storyline was like watching a blockbuster film. Perfect for fans of Charlie Donlea, this book is not one to be missed. Now my only problem is deciding which Coben novel to grab next. Rating of 5 stars. Trigger warning: blackmail, prison escape, being framed for a crime, assault, kidnapping, being held hostage at gunpoint, mention of: suicide, fertility issues

Prison Break Alert!! I finished this book in one sitting. It was pure joy to read something that kept me on the edge of my seat. Sure, there are some small parts that come across as a little unbelievable, but this just takes us back to the knowledge that this is Fiction. David is an amazing character, falsely accused and imprisoned for the murder of his 3 year old son. I really don't want to get into it too much as not to spoil it for others. I'll just jump to end and say that the ending was so satisfying. Grab your lollies and settle in for a really good!

David Burroughs is in prison for the murder of his three year old son that was killed five years ago. His ex sister-in-law Rachel has found evidence that his son may still be alive. David escapes prison and searches for the truth of what happened that night. This story has many twists and was very suspenseful. I couldn’t hardly put it down. Thanks NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for this ARC that will be released March 14, 2023.

It is no secret that Harlan Coben is one of my absolute favourite writers. I have been reading his books ever since I was a teenager, and I still can't get enough of them. I was over the moon to receive an early copy of I Will Find you, and it was devoured in less than 24 hours. His writing is so slick and draws you into the story from the get-go. His characters get into your heart., good or bad. I am always telling people to read his books and that is not going to change. I Will Find You is a stand-alone story, although there is an appearance by an old favourite and a nod to another. In no way though so you need to read any other books to understand this one. This is the story of David, a man who has bene in prison for the last 5 years for the murder of his 3-year-old son, Matthew. He has always said that he was innocent, but guilty of not protecting him. Now, a photo has come to his attention, and it shows a boy that looks exactly like his son. And there the wild ride begins. Is this book a little out there in terms of what David gets away with - yes. Did I care - no! I couldn't get enough of the crazy and intense story. It was really cleverly down, and really hard to put down. In summary - I loved it. Easy five stars. A massive thank you to Random House UK, Cornerstone for my advanced copy to read. Publishes March 16th.

Coben had me from the first paragraph. The book was moving so fast I do not think I took a breath in the first hundred pages. David, the father, has been accused of beating his 3 year old son to death with a ball bat. He is in his fifth year of incarceration when Rachel, his ex-wife’s sister, shows up with a grainy photo of a boy that might be his son. From there the roller coaster ride begins. The coaster track is a wicked and twisted plot. Friends help him and then some deceive him as he tries to put together what actually happened to his son. He has been taught in prison to trust no one which makes the search for truth even more difficult. His path is to get out of prison, find the people that could help prove his innocence and recover a son whose proof of existence only exists as a grainy photo. The ending is exceptional and only to be revealed by those that read this book. So to my fellow GR readers … sit back and enjoy the ride.

4.5 / 5 stars! Wow. Given the masses of high reviews on this book, I wanted to see for myself what everyone was saying and whether the book is worth it’s high rating. And I definitely agree with them. Usually I’m quite skeptical about books with good reviews, I’ve often/ recently found myself disappointed as some books failed to live to their hype, given the high praise, so starting this book I was a little unsure on it. I must say the plot is unique/ simple something that is quite often done in other books but the way twists unreveal themselves add to the whole build up and plot. I was quite literally glued to my seat reading this. I started reading this book in the afternoon thinking this would take me a while (it’s a 406 pages book - hardback edition!), and went through halfway in a few hours. I was shocked at how well the writing is, it’s simple, not overly descriptive but also the random odd commentary just adds to the whole experience. I love the dry humour/ funny remarks it adds to the whole plot. Its easy to follow, all in the same timeline but different perspectives. The build up and suspense is crazy in this one, everything is ramping a notch after each page. I was truly blown at how the book sucks you in. You just have to have an very open mind in reading this book. This is a true example of keeping the plot simple, but letting the writing and twists elevate the book. This is a plot I will definitely remember! I’ve not read a book from Harlem Coben, but this author will definitely be on my watch list.

David Burroughs is in prison for the murder of his three year old son that was killed five years ago. His ex sister-in-law Rachel has found evidence that his son may still be alive. David escapes prison and searches for the truth of what happened that night. This story has many twists and was very suspenseful. I couldn’t hardly put it down. Thanks NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for this ARC that will be released March 14, 2023.

What a ride! I loved this book! It sucked me in right away and I couldn’t stop reading! David is five years into serving a life sentence for the horrible crime of murdering his three year old son Matthew. David swears he didn’t do it. He is visited by his sister-in-law Rachel and that visit changed everything. Maybe David really didn’t do it? I Will Find You is available now. Thank you netgalley and grand central publishing for this arc in exchange for my honest review.

Harlen Coben never disappoints! I tore through this one in two days, a fast-paced story that will suck you in and leave you breathless.

"Wildly Entertaining! An electrifying game of cat-and-mouse —a father wrongly charged—in prison, desperate to discover what happened to his son in this breakneck action thriller." Master of suspense, Harlan Coben returns with an action-packed high, adrenaline crime thriller; I WILL FIND YOU —a father wrongly accused of murdering his young son, and years later, while in prison, he learns his son is alive. David Burroughs has been in prison in Maine for five years, convicted of murdering his three-year-old son Matthew with a baseball bat. He has no memory of the events of that night. A neighbor testified she saw him buying the murder weapon near his home in Massachusetts. He has received no visitors in five years nor wanted any. His wife, Cheryl, has left him and remarried. His sister-in-law Rachel Anderson (former investigative journalist) shows up at the prison with a photo taken by someone at Six Flags amusement park that shows an eight-year-old boy Matthew holding someone's hand. How could it be? Is his son alive? Then who was the boy with his son's PJs on the night of the murder? Who has set him up, and what is the motive? So many questions. David is determined to break out of prison to find his son. The warden in the federal prison is a friend of his father's. He must call in a favor. With two FBI agents on his trail and some sinister evil monsters, he must save his son and get back the life he lost. Multi-layered, I WILL FIND YOU is one live wire-tension-filled suspense thriller with menace, obsession, power, secrets, lies, and MURDER—with Coben's signature twists and humor. Best of all, a cameo appearance from a favorite character. True-crime fans will devour. Coben fans will delight in this high-octane, energetic, emotional, edge-of-your-seat action-packed suspense. Even though you may require a suspension of disbelief, do not overthink it, and enjoy the ride! Netflix, please! Thank you to Grand Central Publishing for providing an ARC via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Blog Review posted @ JudithDCollins.com @JudithDCollins | #JDCMustReadBooks My Rating: 5 💗Stars Pub Date: Mar 14, 2023 March 2023 Must-Read Books

I am always thrilled when I’m able to get a copy of Harlan Coben’s books early so thank you to the author I loved the premise of this book, an innocent man in prison for the murder of his son who has suddenly been given the glimmer of hope that his son is still alive. Is the story a bit improbable? Yes. Did I care? Not in the slightest. Harlan Coben has such a refreshing way of telling stories, I loved the way that he combined the first person narrative while also bringing in third person perspectives for a more well rounded approach to the story. This book has got all of his normal characteristics, humour, witty banter and engaging characters and story. My only complaint would be that the book felt slightly shorter and a bit more rushed than his other books that could just be because when I’m reading I don’t want it to end.

Rounding up from 4.5 stars I am a sucker for Harlan Coben's books. Put one in front of me and I don't put it down until it's finished. And this one is no different, even with its slight twist on a familiar premise. At the beginning we find David Burroughs in prison for the past 5 years for the horrific crime of murdering his 3 year old son. While he doesn't believe he killed Matthew, the fact that Matthew is dead has annihilated any interest in living for him. Until his ex-sister-in-law visits him and gives him hope. From there on, it's non-stop action, maybe not totally possible, but Cohen makes you buy into the premise. Get comfy and enjoy the ride. Thanks to netgalley and the publisher for the opportunity to read this book in exchange for an honest review.

That was a quick read. Wildly addicting and entertaining. Even got me there in the end. Hoping this becomes one of Coben's many film/TV adaptations.

David Burroughs was living his best life in the suburbs with his wife, Cheryl, and his three year old son, Matthew. Everything comes crashing down when David woke up to discover that Matthew had been murdered which he was asleep down the hall. 5 years later, David was wrongly convicted of killing his son and serving time in maximum security when he makes a shocking discovery. Someone brings him a recent photo from a theme park in which you can see a boy that looks exactly like his son Matthew in the background. How can this be? Another great book from Harlan Coben! Every book I have read by this author has been outstanding and I WILL FIND YOU is no exception. Such an incredibly twisty story that I had to unravel as soon as possible! I would definitely call it a quick and easy read that I thoroughly enjoyed. I can highly recommend I WILL FIND YOU to all mystery/thriller fans! You will love it! Many thanks to NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for my ARC in exchange for my honest review. This review will be shared to my Instagram (@coffee.break.book.reviews) in the near future!

This is my favorite book by Coben, I could not put it down. I loved every single thrilling moment of this book. You are not going to see this one coming. I am not going to give anything away. But that ending was worth holding my breath. 5 stars must read. I highly recommend it. The Mary Reader received this book from the publisher for review. A favorable review was not required, and all views expressed are our own.

This review can also be found at https://carolesrandomlife.com/ This was incredibly exciting right from the start! I have been a huge fan of Harlan Coben’s work for a very long time. I was really eager to read this book and went into the book with incredibly high expectations. I am happy to report that those expectations were all met. This was the kind of story that grabs you right away and doesn’t let go and I enjoyed every minute of it. I couldn’t imagine finding myself in David’s situation. To not only lose a child but to be serving time for that child’s murder when you know that you didn’t do it. When he learns that his son may actually be alive, he will stop at nothing to find him. I found this book almost impossible to put down and I loved the fact that it kept me guessing until the end. I had so many questions as I worked my way through this story. I hoped that David would actually find that his son was still alive but then that raised the question of who was actually killed. Every time I thought that I had things figured out, something would happen and I would realize that I had been wrong. I really liked the characters and wanted to see things work out for them. I am not sure that everything that occurred in the book was entirely possible but it was entertaining so it works for me. I would highly recommend this book to others. I loved the twists and turns of the story that kept me glued to the pages. I thought that the characters were easy to like and I felt invested in the outcome of the story. I cannot wait to read more of this talented author’s writing. I received a review copy of this book from Grand Central Publishing.

Granted, this one stretches the believability factor past its upper limit, but so what? It's definitely worth sitting back and enjoying the ride, and hey - this is fiction, after all. At the heart of the story is David Burroughs, five years into his life sentence in prison after being convicted of murdering his young son Matthew. He and his wife Cheryl are divorced, Cheryl is remarried and pregnant and he's refused to see any visitors ever since his first day of incarceration. From Day One, of course, he's insisted that he's innocent. Suddenly, his entire world - or what it has become - is turned upside down. He gets a visit from Cheryl's sister, Rachel, who brings a photograph that brings them both to tears; taken at a theme park, it's a current photo of a boy roughly eight years old who is the spitting image of Matthew. What's more, he has the same distinctive birthmark on his face as David and Cheryl's beloved - but years-ago dead and buried - son. With just one look, David and Rachel are convinced that the mangled body David found on the day of the murder wasn't Matthew. So now what? The what, of course, is what the rest of the story is about. For openers, there's David's plan to escape from prison (ah, whatever could go wrong with that), followed by the intent to visit the witness whose testimony sealed the jury's verdict and learning who the real victim and killer were and - most important - finding Matthew. Standing smack-dab in David's way are FBI agents Max Bernstein and his partner, Sarah - characters who can be somewhat amusing in a work of fiction but in real life would be two of the most obnoxious, reprehensible officers of the law I'd never want to meet. From that point on, it's an action-packed chase - but I can't reveal any of the details without spoiling it for other readers. I'll just say it kept me turning the pages (well, thumbing my Kindle) right up to the end that comes with a well-deserved twist. Very enjoyable, and many thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for giving me the opportunity to read and review a pre-release copy.

Love. Love. Love. Love. This book pulled me out of a mini reading slump. If you love the movie Fugitive, you will love this book. There’s even a reference by the law enforcement agents to the movie. I love nothing more than a good reference. Add in all the twists and turns, along with a good dose of truth and justice? I’m in. I’m all in. David has been in prison for 5 years. He was convicted of killing his son. He didn’t do it, but his son is dead. Why should he have a life when his son doesn’t? And then his sister in law shows up with a picture of her friends vacation. And in the back ground is a boy the same age his son would be, with the same exact large, very identifiable birthmark on his face. Is his son alive? What child was murdered in their house if he is? And how is he going to figure it out if he is in prison?

ARC provided in exchange for an honest review. I have yet to find a Harlan Coben book that I don’t love! The story line was so complex and interesting, it kept me guessing the entire time! The story focuses on a father that’s been in prison for five years for murdering his young son. He a always claimed his innocence but the evidence points to him. There are so many twists and turns and I thoroughly enjoyed not knowing what was going to happen next. I would definitely recommend to anyone who likes psychological thrillers, mysteries, or suspenseful books!

When Harlan Coben writes a new book, I immediately have to get it. I’ve had this on my radar since July 2022 so I was excited to see it’s out and I was one of the first at my library to get my hands on it. As always, he kept me glued to every single page and what a wild ride it was!! David Burroughs is in prison for killing his 3 year old son but he’s innocent. Nothing is as it seems and wow! This was great!!! Highly recommend.

Oh boy, this starts off with a bang and doesn’t let up all the way through. This book was brilliant and twisty and clever. This isn’t the first Harlan book I’ve read and i am certainly going to read more. I highly recommend this one if you like thrillers with a mystery. I was hoping for a happy ending and this does have this. My thanks to Netgalley and the publishers for giving me the opportunity to read this book in return for an honest review.

4.5 🌟 I love Harlan Coben Books!!!! And now I have to wait another year for a new one … (Best problem ever)

All the Stars ⭐️✨⭐️✨⭐️ I know a lot of people don't like her...but Nesta is my favorite ACoTAR character, and has been since the end of book one/beginning book two. I love female characters who are unashamedly prickly...who have defensive outer shells and soft inner cores...who secretly care that people don't like them...but also simultaneously don't give a shit. Ever since Maas has been dangling the Nesta/Cassian pairing in front of us like so much chocolate, I have been dying for the focus to be on them. And after A Court of Frost and Starlight (which I also really enjoyed, although I know a lot of people didn't), I was basically pining for their story. Enter the announcement and wait for this book...the long, loooooooong wait... Then it came out and I inhaled it. And it was everything I wanted it to be and more. Seriously, this was so fucking good, I could cry, folks. Nesta's transformation was amazing...her and Cassian's transformation together was amazing...their banter was amazing...Rhy and Feyre as side characters were amazing...the main plot and all the sub plots were….amazing... I think I’ve officially used up the word “amazing” for the day, so I’ll move on. Simply put: I just loved everything about this book and enjoyed every single page. Also, Maas is not even pretending anymore, you guys. This book was NOT young/new adult. It was FULL-ON adult. And it was...fucking delicious. I'm already starting a re-read.

going into this book, it already had two strikes against it: strike 1 - i hate nesta with every fibre of my being strike 2 - i hate the mid-series cover change to something so low budget so not a great start. but honestly, shame on me for doubting queen SJM. she took a character i hate and made me admire, sympathise, and root for her until the very end. i dont quite love nesta (i may forgive her nasty behaviour, but i will never forget it) and she wont be my favourite character any time soon (i wanted soooo much more feyre, rhys, and az), but wow. her character development, her growth, her understanding, her progression. its all a thing to behold. her story is something i think us readers needed, even if we didnt originally want it. and i love how good cassian is to and for her. i fully support them as a duo. so SJM did the impossible - she made like nesta. who would have thought. ↠ 4.5 stars

yep. absolutely. yes.

4.5 stars ✨ And I'm chuckling at how my prior ramblings were about how this book would be out in Autumn 2018. Well, that aged like milk!

“Forgiveness is not that easy.” “Forgiveness is something we also grant ourselves.” So did I really wait three years for ACOSF only to binge read it in 14 hours with 0 sleep? Yeah I did and it was so worth it. And before you start looking for it in this review, yes we find out what was in the box and yes we find out if they are mates or not but no I will NOT spoil those in this review. I also included links to the bonus scenes at the bottom. SPOILERS BELOW So I’m just gonna go ahead and say SJM fed us so good after almost three years! So many theories were proven and the filler chapters were giving me life. It’s perfect for those who’ve followed her series as they come out and have had to endure the torturous wait for more. But first thing’s first: what the hell happened to the conflict that was building up in ACOFAS? I can’t have been the only one bamboozled with the way Sarah conveniently just resolved The One Big Thing that could have been the center of ACOSF. You should’ve seen my face when Cassian mentioned that Kallon DIED IN THE PREVIOUS RITE without a fuss. Like? What? Isn’t…that… why… we’re here…. ? No? Okay? And also what happened to the “You’re coming with me to the Illyrian Mountains” bit? Again, another misdirection (for lack of a better word) on what we were expecting ACOSF to be. Soooo many people, me included, were expecting Nesta to move in with Cassian in a small cottage to actually live in the Windhaven Camp! I’m actually pretty sad that that didn’t come to pass BUT I’m not complaining with how things turned out. WITH THAT SAID; 1. Put simply, the wait was worth it. I loved this book. I loved the plot. I loved Nessian I loved the smut!!!!!! I loved the House of Wind. I loved Eris. I loved MOR (I know I’m surprised at how that turned out too). I loved Azriel-the-chaperone! “You two need a chaperone up here?” Yes. No. Yes. “I thought you were the chaperone.” Az threw him a wicked smile. “I’m not entirely sure I’m enough.” The full quote is even better than I could have hoped for! 2. Another thing I love about ACOSF was the passage of time! The entire book spans about a little over a year, which justifies the crazy amount of events that happen in this behemoth of a book. Remember when the entire TOG series was said to have happened in only one year? Yeah I didn’t like that. 3. I have a feeling that the red star that shot through the sky was Aelin falling through Prythian in KOA! PLEASE TELL ME YOU GUYS SAW IT TOO. “The mood hadn’t been helped by a rare red star blasting across the sky one day—an ill omen, Nesta had heard the priestesses muttering. Cassian reported that even Rhys had been rattled by it, seeming unusually contemplative afterward. But Nesta suspected that the omen wasn’t the only thing contributing to Rhys’s solemnity. Feyre was only two months from giving birth, and they still knew nothing about how to save her.” 4. I’m just gonna take a minute here to talk about the smut. So ACOSF is officially an adult book and it shows in the smut! There is so much of it and I have only one complaint - that SJM did not flesh out a particular 34+35 scene. She no longer uses her oh-so-famous “velvet wrapped steel” innuendos. We go straight to the point with “cock” and even the word “cunt” now. It also goes without saying that the smut is decidedly more intense than what we've seen from her previous books. SJM was not kidding at all when she said she's descended into new levels of filthy when writing ACOSF. I did, however, still have some slight issues with the book For one, I did not love how Feysand hijacked certain parts of this book *cough cough the ending cough cough* It’s a Nessian book and yet Feysand is still the center of their world. No, I’m living in Nesta’s world. I want it to be all about her! I also had a slight disconnect with Nesta’s character although I can’t tell if she was acting out of character or if she was just grossly misrepresented in books 1-3 since we read it from Feyre’s POV. Nevertheless, I still love how she arced as a character and how she healed. START MAJOR SPOILERS SECTION Ending spoiler I’m very sad that Nesta pulled an Aelin and lost majority of her powers in the end. I loved powerful!Nesta. I loved that everyone was afraid of her. I loved that she was rewriting Prythian history by merely existing. Gods that are older than Prythian itself were afraid of her. I hate how she gave that up in the end. What is it with women being rendered powerless in these books (Aelin and Amren)? Nesta spoiler I am also upset that Nesta ended up melding back with the IC? Everyone was expecting her to move out to Illyria and have her own family outside of the Night Court - I wanted that for her too. But, oh well. Azriel POV spoiler (Bonus scene https://drive.google.com/drive/folder... ) I’m SO excited to see where his story goes. I’m not a heavy shipper for Elriel or Moriel or Azgwyn (??) but I’m interested to see who gets to be with Azriel in the end! Feysand POV spoiler (Bonus scene https://www.reddit.com/r/acotar/comme... OR https://wetransfer.com/downloads/abec... ) THAT TEASER OF RHYSAND’S LAST NAME??? GIVE IT TO US SARAH WE ARE SO CLOSE. Generic spoiler …..And is anyone else scared that not even one minor character died… That’s kinda sus…. END MAJOR SPOILERS SECTION All in all, I would give this 4.8 stars because it was just so good, save for the extremely high expectations which were kinda curbed with her sudden plot change. The Azriel bonus scene was also super interesting and I’m excited to see what book 5 has in store for us! So I'm gonna go and digest this for a few days before rereading it all over again because I am a slut for Nessian. ——— PRE ACOSF RELEASE PREDICTIONS BELOW Because Feb 2021 is coming nearer, I'm going to post my expectations for ACOSF because I'm a simp for Nessian. These will be a mix of stories from ACOTAR 1-3 I want told from their POVs as well as their own character arcs! FOR CASSIAN > More about his upbringing and his mother > Him wrecking one BUILDING in the Summer Court that resulted in him being banned lol > His first encounter with Bryaxis > Cassian taking Mor’s v*rginity > What the hell was in that box he threw into the Sidra 😭😭😭😭 > Training the female Illyrians and Nesta > Seeing him more as a General Commander and not the class clown/comic relief in the IC that we saw him from Feyre’s POV. I need to see Warrior!Cassian FOR NESTA > Learning more about her bond with her mother > Exploring her powers and what she is > Her initial days in Velaris after being Made > Acknowledging her destructive habits and learning to heal > I want to see Amren vs Nesta OR Mor vs Nesta and have Nesta KICK THEIR ASSES > Nesta and Emerie bonding > NESTA IN ILLYRIAN LEATHERS AND WALLOPING CASSIAN IN THE RING > Nesta taking the Rite!!!! > Kicking some Illyrian butts who try to make her feel inferior > Finding her own Inner Circle because I’ll be damned if she works for Rhys > Speaking of Rhys, I wanna see Nesta make him cry (I love Rhys but we all know he and Nesta hate each other lol) > Have her let go of Elain and finally be her own person with her own life that isn’t all about protecting her younger sister These are just off the top of my head but obvs there are more angsty Nessian scenes that I neeeeeed to happen or else I will die

Males and females, children darting amongst them, gawked at Nesta as she exited onto the street. A few hurried their children along. She met their stares with cool indifference. You’re right to hide your children from me, she wanted to say. I am the monster you fear. •3rd time - march 2023• I tripped and fell into this book. so clumsy. My number one comfort novel never ceases to comfort me. Can't wait for the GA. ▪️2nd time - december 2022▪️ and here I thought I couldn't love Cassian and Nesta more🫠 Can't stop thinking about this book. ✨𝗔 𝗖𝗢𝗨𝗥𝗧 𝗢𝗙 𝗦𝗜𝗟𝗩𝗘𝗥 𝗙𝗟𝗔𝗠𝗘𝗦 - 𝗕𝗬 𝗦𝗔𝗥𝗔𝗛 𝗝. 𝗠𝗔𝗔𝗦✨ ★𝗬𝗔/𝗡𝗔/𝗔: 🅽🅰/🅰️ ★𝗦𝗘𝗥𝗜𝗘𝗦: 𝙰 𝙲𝙾𝚄𝚁𝚃 𝙾𝙵 𝚃𝙷𝙾𝚁𝙽𝚂 𝙰𝙽𝙳 𝚁𝙾𝚂𝙴𝚂 #𝟺 ★𝗣𝗢𝗩: 𝙳𝙾𝚄𝙱𝙻𝙴 𝙿𝙾𝚅 - 𝚃𝙷𝙸𝚁𝙳 𝙿𝙴𝚁𝚂𝙾𝙽 - 𝙿𝙰𝚂𝚃 𝚃𝙴𝙽𝚂𝙴 ★𝗧𝗥𝗢𝗣𝗘𝗦: 𝙰𝙻𝙻𝙸𝙴𝚂 𝚃𝙾 𝙻𝙾𝚅𝙴𝚁𝚂, 𝚃𝙾𝚄𝙲𝙷 𝚇 𝙰𝙽𝙳 𝚈𝙾𝚄 𝙳𝙸𝙴, 𝙰𝙶𝙴 𝙶𝙰𝙿 ★𝗖𝗛𝗔𝗥𝗔𝗖𝗧𝗘𝗥𝗦: 👥👥👥👥👥/5 ★𝗪𝗥𝗜𝗧𝗜𝗡𝗚: ✍🏼✍🏼✍🏼✍🏼/5 ★𝗣𝗟𝗢𝗧: 📜📜📜📜/5 ★𝗗𝗔𝗥𝗞 𝗧𝗛𝗘𝗠𝗘𝗦 & 𝗧𝗥𝗜𝗚𝗚𝗘𝗥 𝗪𝗔𝗥𝗡𝗜𝗡𝗚𝗦: 💀💀💀💀/5 (𝙿𝚃𝚂𝙳, 𝙰𝙽𝚇𝙸𝙴𝚃𝚈, 𝚁𝙴𝙳𝙴𝙼𝙿𝚃𝙸𝙾𝙽 𝙰𝚁𝙲, 𝙽𝙴𝙰𝚁/𝙳𝙴𝙰𝚃𝙷, 𝚅𝙸𝙾𝙻𝙴𝙽𝙲𝙴, 𝙼𝙴𝙽𝚃𝙸𝙾𝙽𝚂 𝙾𝙵 (view spoiler)) ★𝗦𝗠𝗨𝗧 𝗧𝗘𝗖𝗛𝗡𝗜𝗖𝗔𝗟 𝗖𝗢𝗡𝗧𝗘𝗡𝗧/𝗜𝗡𝗧𝗘𝗡𝗦𝗜𝗧𝗬: 🔥🔥🔥🔥/𝟱 (𝙴𝚅𝙴𝚁𝚈𝚃𝙷𝙸𝙽𝙶 𝙴𝚇𝙿𝙻𝙸𝙲𝙸𝚃 - 𝙺𝙸𝚂𝚂𝙸𝙽𝙶 - 𝙾𝚁𝙰𝙻 𝚂𝙴𝚇 - 𝙿𝙴𝚃𝚃𝙸𝙽𝙶 - 𝚂𝙴𝚇𝚈 𝚂𝙴𝚇) ★𝗦𝗠𝗨𝗧 𝗤𝗨𝗔𝗟𝗜𝗧𝗬: 🚒🚒🚒🚒🚒/𝟱 (𝙷𝙴𝙰𝙳𝙱𝙾𝙰𝚁𝙳𝚂 𝙰𝙻𝙻 𝙾𝚅𝙴𝚁 𝚃𝙷𝙴 𝚆𝙾𝚁𝙻𝙳 𝙰𝚁𝙴 𝚂𝙷𝙰𝙺𝙸𝙽𝙶 𝚁𝙽) ★𝗦𝗠𝗨𝗧 𝗤𝗨𝗔𝗡𝗧𝗜𝗧𝗬: 💣💣💣💣/𝟱 (𝙱𝚈𝙴𝙴𝙴𝙴𝙴𝙴𝙴𝙴) ★𝗘𝗫𝗣𝗟𝗜𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗡𝗘𝗦𝗦: 🤐🤐🤐🤐/5 (𝙼𝙰𝚃𝚄𝚁𝙴 𝙻𝙰𝙽𝙶𝚄𝙰𝙶𝙴 - 𝙶𝚁𝙰𝙿𝙷𝙸𝙲 𝙳𝙴𝚂𝙲𝚁𝙸𝙿𝚃𝙸𝙾𝙽𝚂 𝙾𝙵 𝚅𝙸𝙾𝙻𝙴𝙽𝙲𝙴/𝚂𝙴𝚇) ★𝗥𝗢𝗠𝗔𝗡𝗖𝗘: 🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹/5 (𝙾𝚃𝙿 𝙵𝙾𝚁 𝙻𝙸𝙵𝙴, 𝙵𝚁𝙸𝙴𝙽𝙳𝚂 𝚆𝙸𝚃𝙷 𝙱𝙴𝙽𝙴𝙵𝙸𝚃𝚂) ★𝗚𝗘𝗡𝗘𝗥𝗔𝗟 𝗔𝗡𝗚𝗦𝗧 𝗟𝗘𝗩𝗘𝗟: 💔💔💔💔/𝟱 ★𝗟𝗢𝗩𝗘 𝗧𝗥𝗜𝗔𝗡𝗚𝗟𝗘: ❌ ★𝗘𝗡𝗘𝗠𝗜𝗘𝗦-𝗧𝗢-𝗟𝗢𝗩𝗘𝗥𝗦𝗡𝗘𝗦𝗦: 🖤/5 (𝚁𝙴𝙻𝚄𝙲𝚃𝙰𝙽𝚃 𝙰𝙻𝙻𝙸𝙴𝚂 𝚃𝙾 𝙵𝚁𝙸𝙴𝙽𝙳𝚂 𝚃𝙾 𝙻𝙾𝚅𝙴𝚁𝚂, 𝙾𝙽𝙴 𝙿𝙾𝙸𝙽𝚃 𝚃𝙾 𝙽𝙴𝚂𝚃𝙰 𝙵𝙾𝚁 𝚃𝚁𝚈𝙸𝙽𝙶 𝚃𝙾 𝙵𝙾𝙾𝙻 𝙷𝙴𝚁𝚂𝙴𝙻𝙵) ★𝗧𝗛𝗘𝗠𝗘 𝗦𝗢𝗡𝗚: 🎶𝙰𝙻𝙻 𝚃𝙷𝙴 𝙺𝙸𝙽𝙶'𝚂 𝙷𝙾𝚁𝚂𝙴𝚂 - 𝙺𝙰𝚁𝙼𝙸𝙽𝙰; 𝚃𝙷𝙴 𝙳𝙴𝚅𝙸𝙻 𝚆𝙸𝚃𝙷𝙸𝙽 - 𝙳𝙸𝙶𝙸𝚃𝙰𝙻 𝙳𝙰𝙶𝙶𝙴𝚁𝚂; 𝚃𝙷𝙴 𝙱𝙴𝚂𝚃 𝙸 𝙴𝚅𝙴𝚁 𝙷𝙰𝙳 - 𝙻𝙸𝙼𝙸🎶 ▰▰▰▰▰▰▰▰▰▰▰▰ ▪️1st time- july 2022▪️ I can't remember the last time a fantasy book has made me cry this much. I've got so much to say about this novel, about the way it was written, about how it made me fall in love with Nesta and Cassian and the bond they've created, about how it made me connect with Rhys and Feyre and Mor and the rest of the characters in newer and deeper ways, but most of all I want to talk about how Nesta's journey to healing and redemption was handled. How strongly and personally it touched me. This is not an easy book to read and understand. I guess that part of its rawness and bittersweet tones are to blame on the fact that it's told from Nesta's pov, a character who was firstly written to be hated and who probably hates herself more than the audience ever could and eventually did. She's a very intense fictional person, and I'd lie if I said she didn't frustrate me to no end in more than one occasion. But I guess that's exactly what SJM wanted from this character. I could literally feel the self-hatred exude from the pages. The self-sabotaging, the way Nesta, who's never been a saint but who maybe was programmed to feel like she was one, denies herself everything that makes her feel even remotely worthy of light. I know how that feels, and I wanted to see what she would do to use her pain, her trauma and her past to mold herself into a new, damaged yet not spoilt, perpetually-evolving creature. I wasn't disappointed. I actually got more than I expected, because I eventually ended up falling in love with all the nuances this character possesses. Not one of them had offered to help save the Archeron family from poverty. They had thrown them all, mere children and a crumbling man, to the wolves. So Nesta had become a wolf. Armed herself with invisible teeth and claws, and learned to strike faster, deeper, more lethally. Had relished it. But when the time came to put away the wolf, she’d found it had devoured her, too. I must admit I never really was a fan of Nesta, but I didn't really ever hate her, either. I was simply indifferent to her and her antics, especially considering I knew being ACOTAR a Beauty and the Beast retelling, at least one of the sisters must be an asshole, and that's Nesta for you. I started getting interested in her as a character at the start of ACOWAR and, confession time, I mainly did it because of a pretty awesome Nessian fanart I've seen on instagram. Oh, don't judge me. The point is, as weak as I am for a good and steamy romance, it takes more than fantart and a few stolen glances to make me appreciate a difficult character, and if SJM managed to steal my heart with her Nesta, in the end, it means she did a great job that goes way beyond ships and smut. For the majority of the previous novels, Nesta is an unlikeable character, and for obvious reasons, the author doesn't want you to like her, so that it feels even more genuine when you start seeing there's good in her, and that she's perfectly nuanced, just like a real person. “There can be nothing more than sex, Cassian.” His jaw tightened, and he seemed to struggle with some internal battle before he said darkly, “Then I’ll take whatever you offer me.” He leaned in, his body still not touching hers, and said against her ear, “And I’ll take you however you wish me to.” Her toes curled on the stones, her hair dripping. “And if I wish to take you?” He smiled against her ear. “Then I’ll beg you to ride me into oblivion.” I want to discuss her character's journey in this review, because the book itself was good and the plot -the amount that was there, at least- was okay, but A Court of Silver Flames is a charcater-driven novel where the protagonist wasn't always a good person. For example, I've read at least a dozen reviews complaining about how this book makes you love Nesta and hate the rest of the original characters, or the opposite, and I can't say I don't see wher they come from, but I was lucky enough to fall in neither of these two categories since I've ended up loving Nesta and loving the other characters, as well, at the same time. They didn't always treat her with kindness, but I feel like they treated her in a very realistic way. When someone keeps pushing their luck, it's only a matter of time before people lose their patience. I loved how they each had a chance to connect and tangle their story with Nesta's, getting to know her, getting loved and understood by her, all of them finally getting a second chance at redemption and healing. One of the scenes I loved the most, is in fact, towards the end when Rhys kneels in front of Nesta after she's saved both Feyre and her baby's life. I lost it completely when they hugged. Nesta isn't an easy person to get along with. She's got a past that pretty much justifies her actions, but the way she choses to handle the consequences is all her own. And that's the point I feel like we need to remember. All her flaws are on display right from the start and there are moments when it even gets worse, but it's all part of her journey. It's only when you reach rock bottom that you can do anything but go up, right? “You could have ruled the world with your power,” he said carefully. “I don’t want to rule the world.” Her eyes were unguarded in a way he had never seen. Mate, she had called him. “What do you want?” Cassian managed to ask, voice rasping. She smiled, and damn if it wasn’t the loveliest thing he’d ever seen. “You.” “You’ve had me from the moment you met me.” She tucked a strand of hair behind an arched ear. “I know.” I loved how Nesta's relationship with Elain and Feyre was addressed. Elain could never do anything wrong in Nesta's eyes and the moment she (presumably) turned her back on her, Nesta was forcefully faced with a truth she wasn't ready to see, or better, that she didn't want to see. Same thing with Feyre. I felt like the sybolism of Feyre hanging paintings of everyone but Nesta in the new, opulent house she and her husband created, was for Nesta worse than any offense the inner circle ever thrown her way (and not without merit). One of the things Nesta resented most about about Feyre, in fact, is the fact that Nesta needed her to survive but Feyre didn't need her in return. Feyre was nothing but kind to her, all the time, but she hit her in the most subtle of ways, in a way that is more important to Feyre than words. Mind it, I don't mean what Nesta did and how she acted in the past is condonable, I'm just saying there's a reason behind her actions, reasons that will definitely help you (I don't say like, because you're allowed to still not like a character even if their past is justified) understand her a bit more. Nesta, as I see her, didn't like the hate and anger she felt all the time, especially towards her little sister. She, in fact, hated it and hated herself for feeling it. I've seen reviewers claim Nesta's friendship with Gwyn and Emerie made no sense, since she already had two sisters she could connect and make up with; I see their point, but I feel like Nesta was re-discovering herself and creating bonds tentatively presenting herself as the new person she was trying to become. Her relationship with the House, for example, was my absolute favorite. In my opinion, the fact that the House was stubborn, sweet, sarcastic in its own special way, warm and curious, added to the knowledge that Nesta Made it, makes me wonder (and hope) if that's exactly how Nesta sees her true self, if that's what she'd like others to see her. Rhys lifted his head. “This is a bad idea.” Cassian winked. “That should be written on the Night Court crest.” I loved seeing her through the eyes of someone who didn't fully know the darkest sides of her trauma and grief; I feel like it gave Nesta a glimps of what her life with her sisters could have been had her mother not gaslighted her into needing to be perfect at all costs, filling her head with conjectures and prejudices and depriving her from being free to decide what to do with her personality and future. And that's where Cassian finally jumps in. God bless that guy, honestly. I absolutely LOVED how he wasn't afraid to call her out on her bullshit but still knew (my god, he just knew) she needed some love despite it all, simple as that, and without asking anything in return. And sure, both Feyre and Elain loved Nesta, but I feel like the relationship the three sisters always had was always taunted by what they had to endure for and with one another. Feyre and Rhys will always own my heart, but Cassian and Nesta gave me the best emotions and I will never forget how beautiful they are together. And, holy shit (view spoiler) “I’ll be with you every step of the way,” he whispered into her palm. “Just don’t lock me out. You want to walk in silence for a week, I’m fine with that. So long as you talk to me at the end of it.” Plotwise speaking, there wasn't much going on, but I enjoyed it, nonetheless. One of the chapters I liked the most is when Nesta, Cassian and Azriel (instert Brooklyn99 Boyle My fantasy threesome! gif) went to the Bog of Oorid looking for the Mask. I was fucking terrified by the whole Kelpie encounter. And the gift sharing moment was e v e r y t h i n g. I love Az with all my heart sigh. Also, I adored basically every scene with Gwyn and Emerie, especially when they were together. Maas's writing is exquisite as usual. I'll never stop being amazed by how vividly I can picture in my mind the scenes she describes. The only plotline I wish was handled a little better was the Rhys/Feyre and you know what one. Every choice Rhys made from that point, felt a bit uncharacteristical and not well thought enough. I decided to blame it on the emotion, because I refuse to think our Rhys would be anything but pragmatic when it comes to his Feyre's safety. Sorry if all of this makes little sense. This book and this character in particular made me really emotional in a way I'd never thought I'd feel toward a fantasy book carachter. Oh, and to lighten up the mood after this sob fest...this book also taught me something I've suspected for a while now, and that is, that everyone in acotar wants a piece of Azriel. Who am I to disagree. Nesta could hardly remember words. But she found them when she whispered into the darkness, “Stay with me.” A shudder rocked through him, but he only smiled as he tucked her into his side. And warm and safe and home at last in Cassian’s arms, Nesta slept.

4.5 stars rounded up!! Ahhhh I had mixed feelings about this book for a good chunk of it because I wasn't sure how I felt about Nesta. But by the end of it, I freaking fell in love with her. This book is so different from the rest of the books in this series in that it's a story of healing, friendship, and love. And I loved all of the new characters we met, like Gwyn and Emerie. Their STRENGTH was truly inspiring, as was Nesta's character growth. I can't wait for more books in this series. I'm not ready to leave this world🥹 The best series I've read in a really. long. time. I will be not so patiently waiting for a book on Az

Um... hi. This is my most favorite book of the series.

5 Stars - Again! FRTC “For every Nesta out there- climb the mountain.” Arguably my favorite book in the series - I've read this one the most. I love Nesta so much, baddest fiercest Archeron sister. Lady Death 🩶🖤 Re-read #5 - I'm ready. 🩶 “Gwyn whispered, “I am the rock against which the surf crashes.” Nesta straightened at the words, as if they were a prayer and a summons. Gwyn lifted the blade. “Nothing can break me.” “Never again. Never again would she be weak. Never again would she be at someone’s mercy. Never again would she fail. Never again, never again, never again.”

3rd Read I'm not gonna lie, this might be one of my favorite books ever. I forgot how much I love this book since I'd read it for the first time 3 years ago, and for the second time over 2 years ago. I was a different person back then to who I am now, which I'm glad for lol, so it was even more special to experience this book again. It made me smile, laugh, giggle, almost cry, and gave me chills. I love them all soooooo much. <><><><><><> 2nd Read Buddy reread with Lyra!! <3 it was so much fun doing this and experiencing the events in this book again! I will never be ok after finishing this book. It's just so, so good and I will scream my love for it and the characters from the rooftops. If I could go back in time and read this book for the first time again I'd do it in a heartbeat. I want a Cassian. Thank you. That's all <><><><><><> “For every Nesta out there- climb the mountain.” Edit: I just read the Azriel bonus chapter and oh my gosh I never expected that of him. I always thought he was so quiet and stuff but honestly, why did I think that? But it's definitely gonna be a Gwynriel endgame, the last line?? Definitely Gwynriel, no matter how much he wants to kiss Elain. But he better not lead Elain on or he's going to be demoted to my least favorite bat boy. AND HE DID NOT JUST SAY THAT LUCIEN DIDN'T DESERVE ELAIN. ELAIN DOESN'T DESERVE LUCIEN. Also I feel like Gwynriel stans and Elriel stans have a heated rivalry or something- everywhere I see Elriel fanart or Gwnriel fanart there's always a comment underneath that says "Elriel is better" or "Gwynriel is better" just let people have their own opinions without blasting them please. <><><><><><> First read “I cannot survive without reading.” Me neither This was easily my favorite book in this series. Easily. It was just . . . I don't have the words. Incredible, amazing? There was so much plot development (my heart hurts from beating so fast during tense scenes), character development (wow, a LOT of character development), relationship developments (😏), friendships (oh my gosh, Gwyn, Emerie, and Nesta have my heart, their friendship is amazing) The Plot Me throughout this entire book. This book is gigantic. I read it online, but even then it was huge (although it took me less than two days to read this- let's just say I had a lot of free time). I expected that it would drag at some point and make me bored, but I was hooked at every chapter. I did prefer Nesta's chapters to Cassian's, mainly because Nesta was going through so much and it was interesting reading from her perspective about her trauma and grief from the battle in ACOWAR. I stayed up until 1 a.m to read this book. Not to finish it, but to simply read it. I literally could not stop reading, even though I told myself after every single chapter I was going to stop, and yet I didn't because something shocking and interesting happened or because I simply did not want to. I risked my sleep for this book. And I'm paying for it, but it was all worth it because this book is incredible. Also, when the Rite happened I was freaking out the whole time. Terrified that someone would get injured and slowly die. And when Nesta did that thing against those warriors- I was scared. Nesta scared me a lot in this book actually. I loved so many scenes in this. They were all amazing. Here's a list: (view spoiler) “Keep reaching out your hand.” This quote means so much. The Characters I absolutely adore these characters. The new ones that came along, honestly, I like this group more than the ACOTAR group. Nesta “I am worthless and I am nothing, Nesta nearly said. She wasn’t sure why the words bubbled up, pressing on her lips to voice them. I hate everything that I am. And I am so, so tired. I am tired of wanting to be anywhere but in my own head.” Nesta had such great character development. She was my favorite character going into this, but she emerged an even stronger favorite character, landing herself among my favorite characters ever. The way she goes from someone so cold and heartless to someone so strong and loving has me grinning. Reading about her internal struggle was interesting to get through. I was heartbroken for her, having to read about what she had to live through, how she's dealing after the events of ACOWAR. I hated what everyone was doing to her, how everyone was talking to and about her because they didn't understand what she was going through. I'm aware that she does make some bad decisions, but she almost always realizes her mistakes, and she can't really stop herself. She's such a strong and determined character, and I love her. What she did at the end was absolutely incredible. Cassian “Your power is a song, and one I’ve waited a very, very long time to hear, Nesta.” Still my favorite bat boy. The way he cared and protected Nesta when no one else would has me falling over. Cassian may pull up a cocky front (okay, he is cocky) but he is such a sweetheart underneath. He did so many things for Nesta to help her, and while he did fight with her and get angry with her, he believed in her. When he defended Nesta's actions (multiple times really) to the others I was smiling so hard. And don't even get me STARTED on the present he got her for the Solstice. I literally can't, I need it. Gwyn “Gwyn whispered, “I am the rock against which the surf crashes.” Nesta straightened at the words, as if they were a prayer and a summons. Gwyn lifted the blade. “Nothing can break me.” I love Gwyn so much. In the beginning she seemed kind of timid, but she really began to loosen up around Nesta and Emerie, and she is easily one of my new favorite characters. She loves and feels so fiercely and lovingly, and I absolutely adore her for that. Her backstory is absolutely heartbreaking. When she was telling Nesta and Emerie about it during the Rite, I almost started crying. She doesn't deserve what happened to her at all, and I'm so glad she found Nesta and Emerie. Emerie “Nothing can break us.” I love Emerie's character. Her love for romance novels, her determination and perseverance, her attitude, everything. I was so sad for her when I learned about her backstory, and I almost cried to hers as well. She was so strong, standing up to her cousin. She was so determined when she went to the trainings too. She willed herself to go there because she knew her father would have hated it, and I absolutely loved that. The Relationship and Friendship Nesta and Cassian “Nesta had loved Cassian since she'd first laid eyes on him. Had loved him even when she did not want to, even when she had been swallowed by despair and fear and hatred. Had loved him and destroyed herself because she didn't believe she deserved him, because he was all that was good, and brave, and kind, and she loved him, she loved him, she loved him.” DON'T MAKE ME CRY. THESE TWO HAVE A CHOKEHOLD ON ME AND I CANNOT ESCAPE. They are such a good couple oh my GOSH. They are better than Feyre and Rhys. I SAID IT AND NO ONE IS CHANGING MY MIND. Excuse my yelling please. But anyways, these two's relationship is so complicated and I love it. The tension between them was so good but the real relationship didn't really start until like after a few of those more intimate scenes. Those scenes were 🔥🔥. Feyre and Rhys's scenes from the previous books have nothing on these. There were so many of those scenes between Nesta and Cassian too. The dining room scene oh my god- When they finally began to show their true feelings for each other I was falling off of my bed because I was giggling and laughing and smiling so much. So many things drove Nesta and Cass apart, but they always found each other again. That scene when they were hiking around the mountains and Nesta broke down and Cassian comforted her brought me to tears. He was so sweet and caring to her, encouraging her that he understood, that she wasn't alone. And don't even talk to me after that sweet ending with them, I literally am so upset that this is over. I NEED MORE. Nesta, Emerie, and Gwyn “I wish for us to have the courage to go out into the world when we are ready, but to always be able to find our way back to each other. No matter what.” This friendship is the best thing ever. They all found home in each other when they were going through bad times, and they became sisters. The scenes between them were so sweet and determined, especially during those training sessions when they never gave up, and they fought all throughout, even after the Rite. They never stopped fighting. My favorite scene ever is when Emerie and Gwyn found out the House is enchanted and will give them anything they ask for. It was so adorable. I also love Nesta and Emerie's love for books, and when they began to introduce the books to Gwyn. AH I have so many examples of amazing scenes between them all but I can't write them all down. My opinion on the Elain Azriel Lucien Gwyn triangle thing is going to be written in spoiler tags below. (view spoiler) “Power lay in her hand. Death gripped her by the other.” *sigh* I guess this is it. This doesn't feel nearly as heartbreaking as it did to write my goodbyes for Kingdom of Ash, but I still feel a little hollow. These characters have become so special to me, and I will always cherish them in my heart. I cannot wait to reread this series again sometime in the future. I already want to go back into the world, see all the characters again, see the development and relationships. If only I could read this for the first time again, meet the characters for the first time. Then I'd feel whole. 5 stars “Never again. Never again would she be weak. Never again would she be at someone’s mercy. Never again would she fail. Never again, never again, never again.” <><><><><><> why did it have to end 😭 rtc

The Valkyries are now my icons TW/CW: Abuse, PTSD, Rape, Traumatic labor and delivery. This might just be one of/if not my new favourite Sarah J Maas book. I absolutely loved Nesta’s character growth in this book. Going into this book I wasn’t a huge fan of Nesta, but I also didn’t dislike her that much. However, through getting to understand her more and understanding her trauma and how she is coping with that trauma, I began to see a lot of myself in Nesta and I grew to love and connect with her on a very deep and personal level. Nesta’s friendships in this book was also another aspect I loved. Seeing those friendships blossom was so beautiful to read and made me so happy to see Nesta happy again. I also loved the romance between her and Cassian. The last 100 pages of this book was also so intense and I just couldn’t put the book down. Cannot wait to read the next book in the series! I also did a full spoiler filled reading vlog on my YouTube Channel. If you’d like to watch that video, you can do so here: https://youtu.be/H7HzIVgM2Zg

this book was porn. like honest to god, bodice-ripping, hands on the headboard, bent over a desk PORN. SJM was like "yeah i did enough of that plot thing in the first three books lets give the people what they want." *inserts all the sex scenes that rhys and feyre were too busy saving the world to have* this is a good thing btw (a very, VERY good thing). i mean there was so much steam the smoke alarms in the entire court went off. whew. someone throw some cold water on SJM because she was on FIRE. also throw some cold water on cassian and nesta. seriously those two are like bunnies. killer bunnies. hot killer bunnies. me, after reading this book: *hightailing it to confession* someone find me a priest and THEN she has the AUDACITY to make this dripping with sex ANIMAL to be a soft bb: (view spoiler) AND THE FEYSAND CONTENT WAS QUALITY(view spoiler) i went into this book hating nesta and came out of it wanting to kiss her feet. like wow. i was really trying not to like you, girl. but i may have accidentally kinda sort loved you.

Maas does this super unique and awesome thing where she blends mental health and romance into a story that makes you want to cry and scream for joy all at once. I loved this book and Nesta’s journey.

751 glorious pages of Nesta being the baddest bitch in Prythian. Heavy emphasis on bitch. And damn do I love a glorious bitch. Particularly if there’s a loud, jokester counterpart with dark hair to annoy her. Also, here I was, minding my own business, thinking ACOMAF’s Chapter 55 was spicy. I was so naive. 😏😈

"I've seen what you can do when you are willing to fight for the people you love. Why not apply that same bravery and loyalty to yourself? Don't say you don't deserve it. Everyone deserves happiness. The road there isn't easy. It is long, and hard, and often traveled utterly blind. But you keep going. Because you know the destination will be worthwhile." I truly do not know how to do justice to this book without writing as many words as I can possibly fit into this review. So, this is your warning that this is going to be a lot of words strung together to hopefully make sense by the end. On how moving and special this story is. I will never understand how SJM can put 26 letters together in so many different ways and create such a masterpiece. Such a story. Such a journey. Especially because she only gets craftier and smarter with each and every book she writes. Let's start with "keep reaching out your hand" please. It's not lost on me that the person that tells Cassian to do this is Amren. That even in her own anger and resentment, Amren reminds Cass that sometimes the only thing you can do is continuously be there for someone no matter what they do. It's so beautiful to me that the two people that always encouraged Nesta to be herself are the two people fighting the hardest for her to come into her own. That they're choosing to stand up for her, to fight for her, but also pushing Nesta to fight for herself. When Cass tells Ness that "she can throw whatever she needs to at him because he won't break" and she then says she's not like everyone else and he says "that's never bothered me" it just about makes my heart burst open. It's the first moment she chooses to share something of herself with him, and he chooses to share his past that he's still working through. I love that she sees, for the first time, that working through trauma isn't a straight line, that there are good and bad days. And while she's not even close to being ready to accept it, that scene is so important because it's the first time she sees it. And not only does she see it, but she sees it on someone she respects. Amren had broken Nesta's pride. So she wouldn't have dreamt of hearing it from her. And Nesta believes her sisters have betrayed her by condemning her to the House of Wind. It takes her a long while to realize that what her sisters did by sending her to train and work was to help. That it was out of love. I've seen a so many people say that nobody gave Nesta enough time, that they Pushed her to get better. But that's just not the truth when it comes to a journey with the mind. Sometimes there isn't any drive to get better, and an ultimatum is the only way for someone to get a true start on it. Nesta needed a push, and she got it, and without that push, we never would have gotten to see one of the most beautiful character arcs in history. So let's go into it. The first moment I teared up in Silver Flames was when Cassian got called to the library to get Nesta to stop training in the shelves. That what she was doing was troubling the others and disrupting work. It's such a beautiful moment when Cass first corrects her, then asks her to stop, only to realize that she was doing something she excelled at incorrectly so that all of the females around her would see that he would never do something she didn't agree to in the first place. She makes sure all of the other priestesses see that if there is a male out there that will respect every wish you have, it will be Cassian. Not only do we see her first breakthrough in her broken soul, but we see the first time she acknowledges that Cassian is worth so much more than he believes. It's beautiful, and will always be one of the most special moments I will ever read in a book. When Gwyn's name shows up on the sign up sheet... I can't even begin to explain the jolt of energy that ran through me. That still runs through me. It's so incredibly powerful to see women take their pain and turn it into a controlled rage. It's a protection of the heart, and a drive to make sure that no one can ever hurt them the way they were hurt before. The priestesses are my heroes. And no matter how many times I read this book I will never be more proud than I am of these females. For taking a step and never backing down from what comes of it. Fast forward to Nesta training with a wooden sword for the first time with Cassian with the mantra "never again" repeating as she goes. When she stops and he's staring at her with so much pride in his eyes. When the priestesses around her are staring with awe. And not afraid, but ready to follow her lead. This is so important for Nesta, such a big part of her arc, because all her life she's believed she's let people down. That she's never been worthy. Of course, she still believes that as soon as they find out what she did, they'll only scorn her like everyone else... but she sees, too, that what she's doing is making a difference. And an important one. And it's just another step in the right direction. Not to skip over a huge plot point, I wanted to add that while this book is very sex heavy, it's meant to be. We know from the first moment we meet Cassian that being physical is a huge part of how he let's off steam and deals with his pain. I think it was only inevitable that Nesta would be the same given how similar they are from the very first moment they met. It makes so much sense that their relationship evolves in the same way their sex does. That their story focuses in on the kind of sex they're having. Their chemistry is out of this world, which is why it's so important to see that despite their lack of control outside of training, there is so much respect inside of training that it rarely finds a place in that part of their day. For three hours every day, they let that pass, and Cass still helps her to work out what she needs to in a regimented training. It may have started out as an order, but at some point, it did become a way of Nesta coping, and Cassian offers her that solace as much as she offers him the same. It's a symmetry I think so many people overlook in saying that this book either has too much sex or use the huge amounts of it so say that the message of perseverance is lost in porn. It's only added to with it. And that brings me to chapter 50, one of the most important things ever written. There is a breaking point in all of us, and I remember thinking along with Cassian, that's Nesta's had to be a storm of rage. That the only way she would move out of hate and into love was to yell, and scream, and get it all out in a verbal spew of self-desecration. So when she fell to her knees and cried. I swear I've never gotten through it without crying myself. My quote above comes from chapter 50, because it's just the truth. She does so much for those priestesses up to this point, for Gwyn and Emerie. For her sisters in the war. For Cassian. I will always believe that as soon as she realized she did good in between all of her bad, that's when she finally got over her hump. Sometimes you just have to show your absolute worst, and be your absolute worst, in order to realize that means you have a best too. Nesta was a big part of me realizing that. And while I don't relate to her on every level, she's one of those characters that I'll always hold so close to my heart. Because her broken pieces might not match up to mine, but she fought like hell to put them back together and so did I. So do I. chapter 50 is so special to me. "Nesta began." When she finally makes it down the 10,000 steps without hate being the fuel, it's so beautiful. Because that was when she realized the most important part of a journey such as this. Something that Amren points out to her after one of the most beautiful and true apologies ever written. Darkness can only be dark as long as we don't acknowledge it, and the House being a metaphor for that is just... iconic. And Nesta seeing that acknowledgement and allowing it to wash over her... "I am the rock against which the surf crashes." I don't want to go too much further into the plot simply because I'm not a spoiler kinda girl. And so much of the rest of Nesta's journey is surrounded by the events that happen around her. So I'm just going to share some favorite moments for those that have read it, and hopefully have people who haven't read it come back and enjoy them for all the same reasons I do after they've given it a chance (or a second one, because this book is so special). Gwyn's Valkyrie breathing exercise has been written out in my notes since I first read it in March of 2021. It works. It helps. It's amazing. Gwyn saying "our stories are worth telling" after offering Nesta and Emerie a new manuscript she's helping Merrill write about the rebirth of the Valkyries. The friendship Azriel and Ness make. If I hadn't already been head over heels in love with the male, as soon as he gets her a book light for the dark, I would have been a goner. Fortunately, I already had been a goner, so it just made me love him so much more. The friendship bracelets. "We win to prove to ourselves that it can be done." Ataraxia. Through her own persistence to be stronger and better and never fail another person again, she achieves this. And I think it's one of the most powerful things ever put in a book. Especially because it's a word nobody would have known the meaning of until SJM told us. So powerful. Rhys falling to his knees. Every time. And finally, "I give it all back." This is another controversial topic that I feel as though I want to add my opinion to. You see, this moment is so incredibly powerful because of the choice. Every other thing in this new life wasn't something Nesta got to choose. I think that the beauty of Nesta's character arc is that the first thing she chose to give up everything for was the first person who gave up everything for her. That she was able to give that all back. It's when she let's go of all of that anger and pain and sorrow and regret and makes up for every last bit of it. It only goes to show that sometimes one decision is all it takes to change your life. I just think that there couldn't have been a more perfect way to wrap up Nesta's story. So I hope that if you have a mountain to climb right now, you know that even though you're meant to work through it on your own, you'll always have someone walking the path with you. You'll always have people in your corner, people who want to help you and be there for you. Sometimes it's in the form of pushing you to start a journey that feels too big and too long to take. Sometimes it's continuously lending a hand. Sometimes it's letting someone new in. But most of the time, it's realizing that the only forgiveness that matters in the end is forgiving yourself. That trauma isn't linear and neither is healing. That life is yours to forge, and once you feel everything, let that darkness envelop you, get to the very bottom of who you are... that's when you truly begin. Just like Nesta began. just like Feyre did before her. And just like so many characters, and people, have before them. There's so much more to this story than what I wrote here, and I could probably prattle on forever about it's significance to me, but the beauty of books is that they mean something different to all of us. If you hated this book, I hope this helped you to have a different perspective. If you loved it, I hope you saw a bit of your own thoughts in this. If you were pretty neutral on it, maybe you're thinking of giving it a second chance, or maybe you've finally tipped over the edge on hating it. Whatever the case may be, however you feel, I hope you have a book that makes you feel as incredibly seen as this book allows me to feel every time I open it up. I can't wait to open it 100 more times. 1,000. 10,000. Just like all of those stairs.

➼ 5★ “I am the rock against which the surf crashes. Nothing can break me.” ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ 𝓶𝓸𝓸𝓭 𝓸𝓯 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓫𝓸𝓸𝓴: You’re on your own kid—Taylor Swift I hate it here—Taylor Swift ೃ༄ ოɣ 𝗍𝗁𝗈υ𝗀𝗁𝗍ડ*ೃ༄ This is the 4th installment of the Acotar series, told from Nesta and Cassian’s pov. What can I say… I freaking loved this book. I already loved Nesta and Cassian in the other books, but I appreciated them even more. The pace is neither fast nor slow— it’s kinda normal I guess lol—but all the things that happen keep your interest on. There are some differences between this book and the previous ones. First, the characters’ povs are told in 3rd person. Also, this is the spiciest, hottest, smuttiest SJM book I’ve ever read, but can I say I didn’t mind it at all??? I enjoyed every second of it lmao even tho it was a surprise??? I mean, Nesta is naughty asf, YOU GO GIRL!!! This was also a healing journey for Nesta. We left her in Acofas in a bad place both mentally and physically. She’s going through a tough time and after an ultimatum she must change many aspects of her life. Has it ever happened to you to get an ultimatum? I’d have handled worse than Nesta tbh. I hate when someone tells me what to do, even do it’s for my own sake and maybe that’s why I didn’t like AT ALL how Feyre and Rhys treated her? Idk, probably but istg — even tho I love them with every fiber of my being— they got on my last nerve. And I must stop here otherwise this will be a rant. I also related a lot to Nesta. Imo, she’s a complicated character and her flaws make her more realistic. She has her faults and she’s definitely not a saint, but I adored her character development throughout the book—how she fought her demons hence showed love and selflessness, traits that were always there, she just didn’t know how to show them. Her depression is so relatable. Her anger is relatable. Her being a bitch is relatable. I saw a girl saying that her pain was painted vividly, and I couldn’t agree more. SJM portrayed the perfect anti-hero, imo. She’s unique and I wish ppl would appreciate her more. Cassian was just perfect. I don’t have one bad thing to say about him, I can’t bitch about him not even a little. I think SJM did an amazing job by choosing to put spicy in their books bc it really suits Cassian’s filthy mouth. The way he understood and supported Nesta when nobody did, while flirting and laughing with her… had me giggling, blushing, and kicking my feet at the same time. He’s so thoughtful and charming, and that make the perfect balance imo. I mean, the moments of pain were alternating to light or steamy moments = perfect balance. Finally, Gwyn and Emerie! Loved them ofc. They’re friendship with Nesta was everything!!! When they made friendship bracelets I was screaming!!! They portrayed the strength of women, girls power; they’re girls girls and I was there for it. Can’t wait to read more about them in the next Acotar book!! LOVE IT! ೃ༄ 𝗊υ𝗈𝗍౿ડ *ೃ༄ “Keep reaching out your hand.” “Amren put a hand above Nesta's heart. "That's the key, isn't it? To know the darkness will always remain, but how you choose to face it, handle it... that's the most important part. To not let it consume. To focus upon the good, the things that fill you with wonder." She gestured to the stars zooming past. "The struggle with that darkness is worth it, just to see such things.” “Nesta had loved Cassian since she'd first laid eyes on him. Had loved him even when she did not want to, even when she had been swallowed by despair and fear and hatred. Had loved him and destroyed herself because she didn't believe she deserved him, because he was all that was good, and brave, and kind, and she loved him, she loved him, she loved him” “Never again. Never again would she be weak. Never again would she be at someone’s mercy. Never again would she fail. Never again, never again, never again.” “Cassian leaned to whisper in her ear, “The first time I saw that look on your face, you were still human. Still human, and I nearly went to my knees before you.” “I'll be with you every step of the way. Just don't lock me out. You want to walk in silence for a week, I'm fine with that. So long as you talk to me at the end of it.” “I am worthless and I am nothing, Nesta nearly said. She wasn’t sure why the words bubbled up, pressing on her lips to voice them. I hate everything that I am. And I am so, so tired. I am tired of wanting to be anywhere but in my own head.” “I am going to tell you that you will get through it. That you will face this, and you will get through it. That these tears are good, Nesta. These tears mean you care. I am going to tell you that it is not too late, not for any of it. And I can't tell you when, or how, but it will get better. What you feel, this guilt and pain and self-loathing- you will get through it. But only if you are willing to fight. Only if you are willing to face it, and embrace it, and walk through it, to emerge on the other side of it. And maybe you will still feel that tinge of pain, but there is another side. A better side.” “Then Rhys fell to his knees and took Nesta's hands in his, pressing his mouth to her fingers. "Thank you," he wept, head bowed. Cassian knew it wasn't in gratitude for Rhy's own life that he knelt upon the sacred tattoos inked upon his knees. Nesta dropped to the carpet. Lifted Rhy's face in her hands, studied what lay in it. Then she threw her arms around the High Lord of the Night Court and held him tightly.” “I wish for us to have the courage to go out into the world when we are ready, but to always be able to find our way back to each other. No matter what.” “Welcome back to the Night Court, Nesta Archeron.” ╰┈➤ ❝For every Nesta out there- climb the mountain.❞ april 14:nesta i love you and i missed you🥹🥹🥹🥹

OKAYYYY MS MAAS, I SEE YOUUU!! I loved this so much! Although the plot didn't feel as jam-packed with action compared to the rest of the series, and some parts of the story felt rather repetitive, I still adored Cassian and Nesta's story! A sharp-tongued, strong-willed fmc 🤝🏻 a cocky, flirtatious mmc who would ultimately move mountains if it made the woman he loved smile. This made for a chaotic relationship but in the best kind of way! Now, a moment of appreciation for bat daddy Cassian. OKAY SIRRRR 👀 If anybody needs me I'll be screaming, crying, barking, drooling over this Illyrian Lord. 🙌🏻😍 Not to be dramatic, but Cassian will forever have me in a chokehold (unfortunately I don't mean literally). There's something about the cocky but secretly vulnerable warrior-type guys that just GETS me, y'know! I truly think that he might be my fave character in the series and YES I KNOW I said that about Rhysand (and Tamlin when I read ACOTAR, but we're going to ignore that fact, thank you very much!) — but if they were to battle for first place, Rhysie would put up a fair fight — but ultimately, I think Cassian would take the trophy. (Sidenote: I do still think Tamlin deserves his happily ever after. Judge me 🤷🏻‍♀️😂) I'll admit, up until the end of ACOWAR, I found Nesta unbelievably irritating and insufferable… Now, I've warmed to her and only occasionally find her irritating and insufferable. I liked that we got more of an insight into her emotions in this book, and I was definitely pleased with the character development (the ending had me very close to tears 🥹). I loved how her bond with the other Valkyrie sisters blossomed — their friendship was beyond wholesome and I'm desperate to read more about Gwyn and Emerie's stories! I did also kinda love how Nesta had a penchant for smutty books! Somebody get my girl a kindle! 🔥 However, I did also struggle to move past how damn selfish Nesta could be! I think this feeling boils down to how consistently vile she was towards Feyre and how she allowed her to risk her life hunting when they were younger. Being an eldest sister, I could NEVER imagine not stepping up to protect my younger sister. You can bet your ass I'd be sacrificing myself to keep her safe! To cut a long story short, I fear that I may never again be as invested in a series as I was this one. WHAT AM I SUPPOSED TO DO NOW!?! (The answer is "start the Throne of Glass series" obviously.) ──────────────────────────────── ˚₊‧꒰ა Pre-Read ໒꒱ ‧₊˚ I'm finally starting ACOSF!! (I know, I know, round of applause for me). I don't want this series to enddd! But alas, I've delayed it for too long, and the time has come.✨🌌

This book was so so so good. Nesta is broken when this book begins and slowly pieces herself back together throughout this book while exploring a relationship with Cassian and learning to let him in. To let anyone in. I don't want to say too much more about this book so that I don't spoil anything. I have a more in-depth look at my thoughts with a spoiler discussion going up on my youtube channel tomorrow. I do wish we had more of an active plot that was more high-stakes like the previous three books were. We had a few scenes where things had a lot of action, but I was hoping for more in this book. But this plot was definitely much more character-driven than plot-driven and I didn't end up minding. I already can't wait for the next book!

➼ 𝟔 𝖘𝖙𝖆𝖗𝖘 ⤷ I'm OBSESSED, yeah, I'm so obsessed - 𝒐𝒍𝒊𝒗𝒊𝒂 𝒓𝒐𝒅𝒓𝒊𝒈𝒐 "I have no regrets in my life, but this. That we did not have time. That I did not have time with you, Nesta. I will find you again in the next world— the next life. And we will have that time. I promise." - - ᨳ꒰ ୨୧ ꒱ഒ - - ༺｡° .ᘛ𓆩 🆃🅷🅾🆄🅶🅷🆃🆂 𓆪ᘚ. °｡༻ Is this book what love feels like? I actually LOVE this book with everything in me. I think I have to go and lower the rating of the other books in the ACOTAR series, because this was so, so, so much better and literally pure ecstasy. There are no words to describe how obsessed I am with this book and the beauty that is Nessian. AHHHHHHHHHH I just want to screammm, I don't think I'll ever get over this. ⊹ ࣪˖ ┈┈ ˖ ࣪⊹ ┈┈⊹ ࣪˖ WARNING: if you like rhys, don't read this... (sorry to my girl SK) .·°՞(っ-ᯅ-ς)՞°·. ⊹ ࣪˖ ┈┈ ˖ ࣪⊹ ┈┈⊹ ࣪˖ *ੈ✩‧₊˚༺ ༻*ੈ✩‧₊˚ Copy these sentences. Rhysand is intensely hated. Rhysand is an asshole. Rhysand is literally identical to Tamlin. Rhysand is not the high lord of the Night Court, he is the high lord of entitled bitches. How do you like my reading skills now Rhysand? *ੈ✩‧₊˚༺ ༻*ੈ✩‧₊˚ - - ᨳ꒰ ୨୧ ꒱ഒ - - ༺｡° .ᘛ𓆩 🅲🅷🅰🆁🅰🅲🆃🅴🆁🆂 𓆪ᘚ. °｡༻ ⋆.𐙚 ̊ Nesta ⤷ MY QUEEENNN !! I have NEVER hated Nesta, and I will FOREVER DEFEND HER against all the haters. I love how although her exterior is cold and icy, inside she's loyal to a fault, and loves in the only way she knows how. She's such a complex character, and pushes people away to protect herself. She was going through so much, and I love how she stayed strong, confident and determined. Her dynamic with Cassian was *chefs kiss*, I LOVE them together, they're perfect for each other, and nothing and no-one will ever convince me otherwise. They helped each other heal and grow, and the moments between them had me blushing so hard. .𐙚 ̊ Cassian ⤷ THE STANDARDS ARE IN HEAVEN !! I LOVE him so much. I love him so much. I LOVE HIM SO MUCH! Towards his enemies he's tough, cruel, scary and violent, but towards the people he loves, he's always loyal, kind, good and caring. he has a sarcastic, hilarious sense of humor, and always supports those he cares about. The amount of love he has for Nesta and his whole found family just makes me want to cry and smile at the same time. He understands Nesta, and THE SCENE AT THE LAKE (˚ ˃̣̣̥⌓˂̣̣̥ ) I swear it made my heart die from to much exposure to love radiation. WHERE CAN I FIND A MAN LIKE THIS? Come steal me and chuck me in the Cauldron - PLEASEEE 😭😂 .𐙚 ̊ Rhys ⤷ The only maths I'm sure of is that 2 + 2 = 4 and Rhys = Tamlin !! I never thought I would ever say this. But Rhys... YOU SUCK. The Rhysand I knew was brave, loyal and selfless, whatever disgusting, drastic personality change he had in this book... it was not for the better. The Rhys I knew would NEVER hide anything from Feyre, he would never hide from her something that COULD CAUSE HER DEATH! What happened to feminism? What happened to them being equal to each other? WHAT HAPPENED TO RHYS? .𐙚 ̊ Emerie + Gwyn ⤷ Ahh such iconic Valkyrie girls !! I love them so much, the friendship between Nesta, Gwyn and Emerie was beautiful, and them training to become Valkyries was perfection.WHEN CAN I SIGN UP FOR CLASSES? .𐙚 ̊ Az ⤷ NOOOOOOO !! Please, I'm begging you Az, DO NOT fall in love with Elain. PLEASE DO NOT FALL IN LOVE WITH ELAIN. Elain has as much personality as a rock, waitttt actually that would be offensive to the rock. She's whiney, annoying and overall Az you deserve soo much better. Please do NOT make Gwyn collateral damage SJM. IM BEGGING YOU 😭😭 - - ᨳ꒰ ୨୧ ꒱ഒ - - Sorry for the rant hehe, thank you for reading this far, ILYSMMM 💗🤭 xoxo, dawn - - ᨳ꒰ ୨୧ ꒱ഒ - - « ☆ —⋆——꒰ঌ·⚔️·໒꒱ ——⋆— ☆ » 𝖕𝖗𝖊𝖗𝖊𝖆𝖉: GIVE ME THIS BOOK NOW! FINALLY starting A Court of Silver Flames 😭🔥 i already know this is about to destroy me in the best way possible. I'm so ready for nesta’s story, the angst, the healing, and all the chaos cassian is about to bring 🥹🫶🏻 also... i genuinely don't understand the nesta haters, because THAT'S MY GIRLL!! wish me luck because i don’t think i’m coming out the same 🤭✨ « ☆ —⋆——꒰ঌ·⚔️·໒꒱ ——⋆— ☆ »

I took a break from the ACOTAR series before reading this and I'm so glad I did because I was so connected to Feyre's journey I didn't know if I would be able to relate to Nesta. I read this on paperback and a reread on graphic audio and it was such a great experience. I'm officially a Nesta Stan - Feyre will still be my number one but I love them both for different reasons. This book was so crucial to the story and understanding Nesta's trauma / mental health and journey to self love / acceptance of her actions. I still don't agree with some of the things Nesta did and I kept reminding myself throughout the book that both Nesta and Elain are older than Feyre. Elain doesn't seem to get as much hate as Nesta for her role in this? I understand Nesta more and honestly, I wasn't expecting to be hit in the face with a mirror at points because I related to her struggles/self destruction a lot. Cassian was great as always, I loved having an insight into his self doubt and internal conflict about being a 'brute' and not thinking he is smart enough like the others. I did want to slap Nesta a few times when she knocked him down out of spite but that Eris conversation between them redeemed her a bit and had me weeping. The spice was off the charts in this book, I personally think there is no such thing as too much spice so this wasn't an issue for me. *Slight spoiler warning below if you haven’t finished it yet* I only have two critiques: 1. I wish we got a more private moment between Nesta and Cassian after they confirmed they were mates but we will see what happens in the books to follow. 2. I wish we got Feyre / Rhys' POV when they found out about the pregnancy and after the birth - it was such a big moment to miss out on it was so hard seeing this from the outside. I can't decide if I want Az with Elain or Gwen! I think Gwen will be a better match but there's been so much foreshadowing with Elain. That being said I did notice when Cassian described the girls dressers in their childhood house Elain's painting was fire but I honestly can't see her accepting the mating bond with Lucien... I read the bonus chapters as well and Rhys is still my number one man - I don't view him differently at all, he always puts the needs of everyone above himself. I will not take any Rhys hate here! 🤭 Can't wait for the next few books, this series will always hold a special place for me ❤️

Update Dec 7, 2023 HOLY FUCK this was even better the second time around! I have so many theories for the next book (view spoiler) Still fucking hate this cover though 😂 Update Feb 20, 2021 This book has absolutely RUINED ME. Idk how I'm supposed to function at this point. This took me on a damn journey, an absofuckinglute rollercoaster. I vlogged the whole thing, so maybe I'll be able to make sense of my thoughts while editing that, but no guarantees. Also, I hate the cover less in person? Don't get me wrong, it's still hideous, but there's less of a soul-deep hatred in person. TWs for discussion of rape, domestic violence, and difficult childbirth Update: Feb 19, 2021 My copy is supposed to show up today, and I am NOT EMOTIONALLY OR MENTALLY PREPARED. Update: November 2020 I successfully blocked this out, but I've been reminded of it again at 2 am. Afraid to sleep in case of cover induced nightmares. Send help and pretty covers. Original: This cover does not spark joy.

Aw this touched my whole heart and I loved it. ...Rhysand was a dick tho.

Excuse me while I borrow a phrase from Fynn to convey my very sophisticated language while reading this monster of a book: what the fucking fuck. Memento Mori. Remember that you will die. Reading HoEaB is like listening to rock (maybe goth, punk, or alternative) mixed with trap: slightly jarring and odd with a hard edge, dark vibe, and pacing that goes from low to explosions and thunder. Which is something I love but you might not. No, this was not perfect. And yes, it fell shorter than the revolutionary it could’ve been. Nonetheless, it was a unique masterpiece to me because, of all of SJM’s works, this is the most surreal yet real, casual yet grand, the grittiest and most intriguing. With a more mature storytelling and a painstakingly-crafted, cruel world in defiance of the fairytal-ish-ness of ACoTaR, House of Earth and Blood sets itself apart from her earlier works, bringing in a detailed urban/high fantasy and noir atmosphere of mystery, drugs, sex, war, and epicness all in one book, with a refreshing twist on the Chosen One trope while exploring the power of sacrifice and unflinching trust in love. Light it up, bitch. To be frank with you, this sagacious mammoth of a book is more like an entire series, taking you through a journey so long and eventually satisfying with so much character development that one might say it is too long. And perhaps I first agreed until I realised that I wouldn’t give up a single syllable and lose the characters and world. Yes, it’s very slow for the first half but, when slow is interesting, it ends up paying off even better than fast paced as all those tied up threads snap in the longest, most exquisite climax to have graced my book shelves. HoEaB has about 200 pages of reveals and beautiful, glorious, touching battles, which is probably 4 times as many as any book. I think it deserves a break for having only twice as much a slow paced trying-to-unravel-a-baffling-murder-mystery tale. Through love, all is possible. In the end, for someone who doesn’t believe in love and will in all likelihood never be capable of feeling it towards any human being, Crescent City had me weeping and laughing and clapping and being filled with sheer blinding dread while sobbing at the above quote, all within mere paragraphs of one another. Yes, it’s cheesy, but it’s brave and iconic and I appreciated it? I have one very vital question tho: if this was the 1st book, WHAT CRUSHING EPIC HEL IS GONNA BE THE REST? (look for my playlist at the end of the review to enhance your reading experience even more!) ↳ CW ➯ explicit language, drug use, graphic mature content, slavery, abuse, gore, violence, mutilation, speciesism (magical species over mortals), death, loss of loved ones, depression, suicide attempt (mentioned) ↳ ⋆☽ Storyline ☾⋆ Three realms make up the capital of the Valbara territory: the mer in the river, the Reapers and the dead upon the misty shores of the Bone Quarter, and the residents of Lunathion proper—all ruled by the seven Heads of the Crescent City aka seven powerful rulers from different species except, ofc, humans, because you bet humans have no power. Which would explain the Ophion rebellion of humans now armed with guns and bombs, currently creating scenes of massacre in the planet’s capital. “Magic and machines. Never a good mix.” Bryce Quinlan, a powerless and completely ordinary half-breed shunned from both sides of society and content to lose herself in her high-on-drugs-and-sex-and-youth lifestyle as a sorceress’s assistant, wants nothing to do with their antics. Until the leader of the rebels in the city gets released, and then...you know how it goes: people Bryce loves die, the government quickly apprehends the bastard, and all is good. Fast forward two years, the city rebels have shut the Hel up but people are, again, dying in precisely the same gruesome way—chopped into pieces. Could it be that the rebels were not responsible for the deaths two years ago? Then, could someone please explain to me, what the shit is going on? Thankfully, that’s exactly what Bryce, with the help of Hunt Athalar—a once-upon-a-time rebel angel enslaved to the very regime he hoped to overthrow 200 years ago—is assigned to find out. And you bet your arse nothing is as it seems. ↳ ⋆☽ Storytelling ☾⋆ Allow me to introduce you to Sarah’s best writing wrapped up in one book. I could tell you about the devouring, addictive atmosphere building that captures the urban fantasy mashed up with high fantasy and noir world brilliantly, making use of modernised naming, casual expression-and-slang-filled conversations, deftly written descriptions of drug-addled minds, and generally diving into real and gritty notes on the world—from flashing banners to the inane TV shows. Or, I could tell you about her no-nonsense storytelling that as usual doesn’t shy away from any part of life—be it a female’s cramps or sex or annoying behaviours in the bedroom or depression or cursing (which you’ll never hear me complaining about) and how considerate she is of everything including qualifications of medical experimentations. I could even tell you about her easy way with words that paints images straightforward while bursting with the occasional apt turn of phrase, staying more mature than her previous works without any overly poetic and dramatic passages constantly popping up yet still expertly trapping yours and the characters’ emotions to do with them as she wishes. But I won’t. ↳ ⋆☽ Characters ☾⋆ “Everyone, General, is for sale. You just have to figure out the asking price.” ★ Bryce is one of the most unlikely MCs, starting from a place of abandon and looking to find her worth, having a real chip on her shoulder when it comes to males and getting riled up rather quickly (while sometimes even unprovoked) about feministic matters, being denied a dancing career because of her body type, this curvy party girl brings a more ignored type of characters into the spotlight. With her, SJM comfortably shoulders themes like casual sex and drugs, handling them with such rare ease. “I was told my half-human body was too clunky. I was also told that my boobs were too big, and my ass could be used as an aerialport landing pad.” What surprises me most is that, despite her being a self sacrificing idiot, I grew to adore her. She’s not the stereotypical bore of a brave hero, she’s smart, real, tangible, messed up, and full of flaws. I realise this is Sarah’s preference in leading characters, as is dealing with loss and trauma, apparently. But I’m not complaining because her exploration of these subjects grows with each series, adding something different, something similar—all complementing eachother. “No one gets a medal for suffering the most, you know,” ✯ Hunt the Haunted Boy bore such utter loss and loneliness that I couldn’t not like him. I appreciate that he respected her despite being an occasional idiot yet loyal puppy, but he lacked a certain solidity to his character that all of Maas’s other male characters still had. Such a shame. “I have no idea what to do.” “I’m two hundred thirty-three years old, and I’m still figuring it out.” ✮ Danika, reckless, wild, loyal unto death, awe-inspiring alpha with a life forced upon her and the usual choice for lead; Ruhn, my precious defiant crown prince and Chosen One of the Fae, but a brother above all else; contained and messed up Fury ; unwavering June; unforgettable and priceless Lele; Flynn and his reflection of the responsibility-fleeing youth; charming Tharion; humble Isaiah; and mysterious and dark Aidas I need more of...all own a piece of my heart now. “You told me not to let them see me cry. I took the advice to heart.” ↳ ⋆☽ Relationships ☾⋆ ✰ Friendship: Danika and Bryce’s bond is probably one of the most beautiful things SJM has written. The sisterly support, the unwavering loyalty, the faith...it just leaps out of the page and grabs you by the throat until you are choking and crying begging for it to stop. I have no words as I’m still choking on those ruthless sobs. Truth be told, Sarah’s focus on the significance of friendship (even in a romance) above all else and her masterful tackling of its muddy waters is the best thing about all her works. “That’s the point of it, Bryce. Of life. To live, to love, knowing that it might all vanish tomorrow. It makes everything that much more precious.” ✰ Romance: What I love most about this facet of the story is its focus on everything NOT toxic masculinity, and while I disagree that her previous works dwelled in this area (as the focal point of all her endgame romances have been friendship, equality, and mutual understanding and respect) we have had characters who’ve been tolerant of the much more animalistic instincts of the Fae as well as ones who battled those instincts and all but declared that it’s important to respect your partner’s wishes rather than act possessively; here, she takes the last step to declare it and shows that she can write different dynamics with adding Bryce, who isn’t tolerant of it. Yes, Bryce and Hunt might not be my fave ship, might not be a heartthrob, but not every ship has to own my heart. What matters is how they fit and how precious their bond is. Though TBH I prefer it as friendship. ✰ Mother-Daughter: A gem of pure strength. My icy heart melted. ✰ Brother-Sister: Having to deal with two older brothers who I can’t call overbearing or annoying as, honestly, I’m the unbearable one they have to bear with, I always crave these relationships in books (and hate how uncommon they are in works of fantasy). Well, my prayers have been answered! Can I have more of this preciously and precisely captured dynamic, please? ↳ ⋆☽ Worldbuilding ☾⋆ What word can I use to convey my adoration for this world? Inventive? Fascinating? Layered? House of Earth and Blood (which is also the name of one of the 4 Houses of Midgard, if you’re wondering) takes on inequality in a brutal regime while combining magic and technology in a dazzling manner—with scientists, tourists, blood tests checking one’s power, a system to monitor the vibrations in the world’s magic, and a sword in a cave (Jumong + Arthur much?), SJM has thoughtfully became the architect of her most ingenious world yet. Magic and technology; I never ceased to be amazed by the balance and contrast of how these two elements were mixed; how naturally it was managed. Not to mention the spin on the traits of angels (as we know SJM loves to do, now inspired by angels in Judaism), changing them from holy, perfect idols to arrogant bastards. And there is, ofc, the usual animalistic Fae and shifters touch on the usually-known-as serene creatures—some would dislike her focus on their lupine and canine and feline sides, perhaps finding it uncomfortable, but to me, it is refreshing and precise, as it feels more grittily realistic. What are humans but slightly more intelligent animals? And demonstrating how said connection to the wilds would affect these individuals is a sprinkle of accuracy in Maas’s favour. In Crescent City, Maas is inspired by multiple mythologies and uses the occasional familiar name to make all the foreign and new information less overwhelming while providing a new outlook on their definitions with clever new interpretations. Such as Midgard, originally land of the mortals between Asgard (land of the gods) and Helheim (land of the dead) in Norse mythology, here used as the name of the planet mortals made their lives upon before the godlike magical beings left their worlds and pushed in from the Northern Rift, also hosting the Quiet Realms were the dead dwell. Midgard is a world divided by power. Literally. There are tests to determine a Vanir’s level of magic, and the one bearing more of it stands higher on the hierarchy (the down to earth ones having a celebrity-like position in the society). And humans, with no power, do not get much credit despite their efforts in guiding the city to technological advancement, having their achievements funded and claimed by rulers who are smart enough not to leave room for their inferior species thriving while they themselves cling to old traditions. Additionally, as fits the urban fantasy genre, the focus is on the city and its world building—so while we learn about the system of the planet in general, most of our knowledge and wanderings happen within the confines of Lunathion, a city holding the same nickname as New Orleans, and throwing nudges to it in more than one way. All together, the world of Crescent City is so rich it’s dripping in gems and shadows and drugs, and its exquisite creatures, artfully shaped and accordingly named landscapes, temples of pleasure, and magical libraries with sneaky books could sweep you beneath its dark waves and crush you in the jaws of the horrifying nøkks waiting for your boat to tip. Note: I was right! This is the “glittering city on the curve of a river,” mentioned in Kingdom of Ash. The fact that all of SJM’s worlds exist in the same universe just brings so many possibilities to the table, and I absolutely love it. I will now proceed to the Quiet Realm of the dead, all the way across the crescent river, on my worn boat, ready to tip and leave me to drown in its dark, bloody waters. ↳ ⋆☽ Companions ☾⋆ ↬ Book playlist: Spotify URL ↬ Books in series: ⟿ House of Earth and Blood (Crescent City, #1) ★★★★★ ⟿ Untitled Sequel (Crescent City, #2) ☆☆☆☆☆

[rtc after rereading] All the fucking stars in the universe. ALL OF THEM. First off, let me start by saying no review, no matter how eloquent or long or detailed, will ever completely let me convey my feelings about this book. Ever. Because I HAD FEELINGS and they wrecked me completely. If you don't know me, that means that this is going to be really, really long. With way too much fangirling and incoherent raving. I have heard a lot of complaints about the first half of this book being slow. Not to me. I read intensely through the whole book, though I was completely invested in the last quarter (which was like 200 pages, but still). Maybe it’s just because of my personal preferences because the first part of the book was really world-building, which I love. I love when a book has strong, intricate world-building. It’s one of my major weaknesses in books. “The universe is massive. Some believe it has no end. Or that our universe might be one in a multitude, as bountiful as the stars in the sky or the sand on a beach.” Characterization. Always, always, always a huge hit for me. Obviously, going into this I knew it was going to be incredible because, seriously, this is a fucking Sarah J. Maas book. She did not disappoint. Also, may I point out that this book has more inclusion of races and sexualities than SJM's other books. Bryce Quinlan – the gorgeous, flippant, badass, wrecked, understanding, sassy, party-girl protagonist whose sarcasm, intelligence, secrets, and all-around badass-ness is so damn incredible. You can tell as soon as you read her comebacks that she is the epitome of an SJM female protagonist. In other words, utterly fucking perfect. I could write a 500-page book on how much I love Bryce and still not have enough (500 pages because I’m a lazy ass and I could just use 1-point font) Danika Fendyr – the powerful, loyal, equally-badass, lethal, terrifying, never-to-be-underestimated, equally-party-girl, incredibly-fucking-strong Alpha wolf shifter who I fell in love with as soon as she opened her mouth. She does not get enough spotlight or recognition and I will NEVER stop talking about her character and how she deserves so much fucking love and appreciation. Hunt Athalar – the powerful, strong, stony, emotionally-wrecked, gorgeous, lethal Fallen Angel and honestly the character with the most amazingly written emotional backstory. I LOVE Hunt and his sensitivity and shocking human-ness, and he never ceased to make me feel emotions. He made me feel emotions. The bonus: he knows how to make coffee and will cook breakfast. Ruhn Danaan – the rebellious, powerful, arrogant domineering Fae prick with a heart of gold and a hidden soft side. I liked his character, but I didn’t love him the way all of the hype said I would. I heard so much obsession over Ruhn before I read the book that I honestly felt let down a bit. Still. He’s a Fae male protagonist written by SJM; how can you not love him? (no, Tamlin does not count as a protagonist) Lehabah – the pretty, little, gossipy, mischievous, caring, talkative, brave, emotional fire sprite who despite being really annoying at times, I still love. She is so amazing and supportive in her own little way and I wish I had a companion like her. She deserves EVERYTHING. Juniper Andromeda – the beautiful, talented, determined, gorgeous, fierce, supportive, loving, sweet, stubborn dancer who refused to let her faun legs stop her from ballet. We don’t get much of her but We. Need. More. Fury Axtar – the lethal, mercenary, terrifying, dark, dangerous, rebellious, sarcastic, notorious assassin whose caring side and lethality are amazing. I loved her. I need more of Fury. Please. I loved her so much. Jesiba Roga – the notorious, cold, imperious, powerful, feared, mysterious, cunning, immortal sorceress who intimidates everyone and often threatens to turn people into animals. No one challenges her, no matter their standing. Overall a badass bitch. Hypaxia Enador – the smart, calculating, unflinching, strong, underestimated badass witch who knows what she’s doing and does not back down. I loved her as soon as she was introduced because even though she was shady, I could tell she was going to be a strong character who deserves so much more spotlight because I literally forgot about her while I was writing this review. There’s more to the characters and I could keep going but that would take a long time and I’m lazy. “There’s nothing wrong with being a party girl. I don’t get why the world thinks there is.” But she considered his words. “It’s easier for me—when people assume the worst about what I am. It lets me see who they really are.” The plot. I admit I went into this not expecting too much based off the synopsis. Well, that’s kind of a lie. I went into this expecting a TON because one, it’s a Sarah J. Maas book, two, the rave review from literally all of my friends, and three, because the idea was fascinating and I had read a sample off Google Books. But the synopsis didn’t do it for me. The book itself, on the other hand, blew my fucking mind. The twist in the first five chapters that wasn’t even a damn twist, it was just a setup. The plot. The world. Everything. The story progression, character development, story arcs, themes, and ALL OF THE FUCKING PLOT TWISTS that I still haven’t gotten over. I knew Sarah J. Maas would give me an incredible story, of course – I’ve read Throne of Glass and ACOTAR three times each – but I wasn’t sure about her writing a murder mystery. I should never have doubted the queen. Nothing can describe the experience I had reading this book. “Vengeance incarnate. Wrath’s bruised heart. She would bow for no one.” The character trauma that SJM incorporates into all of her books is insane. I have some pretty rough experiences with grief and depression, and Sarah J. Maas’ books are the best representation of trauma that I have ever read (being a fourteen-year-old, that probably isn’t saying much but I like to consider myself mature). The way she writes their healing, their pain, their darkness, their grief, just feels so real and amazing, and I love it. “That's the point of it, Bryce. Of life. To live, to love, knowing that it might all vanish tomorrow. It makes everything that much more precious.” The writing. This is Sarah J. Maas’ first adult book, and I was a bit hesitant to read it at first because her other books are mature enough (*cough* beach scene *cough*). They are…detailed, to say the least, and they have some pretty strong language. I thought Crescent City wouldn’t be that much worse. I mean, it really wasn’t. I don’t mind the F-bombs all over the place – proof of that is scattered throughout this review. I have a lot of exposure to cussing and I toss around the word fuck like it’s confetti. There was a ton of cussing and a bit more explicit information about male and female interaction, but I honestly think I was desensitized to the cussing part after reading all her other books. “I’m saying I want shit kept quiet.” She grinned at Ruhn, showing all her white teeth, the expression more savage than amused. “I’m saying if you three morons leak any of this to your Aux buddies or drunken hookups, I am going to be very unhappy.” Honestly, Hunt would have liked nothing more than to grab some popcorn and a beer, kick back in a chair, and watch her verbally fillet these assholes.” I don’t care about the bad language. I can cuss people out in a mixture of languages (just ask my classmates). What made me uncomfortable, as a fourteen-year-old girl with basically no dating experience, was the interactions that I was mentioning in the last paragraph. Somehow I’m not as desensitized to those scenes. “Danika just said it. “If he grabs his phone to check his messages before his dick’s barely out of you again, please have the self-respect to kick his balls across the room and come home to me.” The one thing I had an issue with: why are all of SJM’s characters absolutely fucking gorgeous? I know that sounds odd, and jealous and insecure and shit, but it’s true. All the females are lean and toned with gorgeous bodies, pretty hair, and awesome skills, and all of the males are tall, muscular, and powerful. In all of her books. Even though they’re all mentally and emotionally relatable, they still have these perfect bodies and gorgeous faces and pretty hair and it makes me even more insecure. Excuse me, where are my average people? I already struggle with body image and reading this didn’t really help (still, that’s not enough of a reason to lower my rating of this book because it was just that good.) So. To finish raving (for now at least, because I’m tired of typing and I can’t function enough to think of anything else to write). I did not want to be done when I read the last page. I did not want to finish this book. Because this book was absolutely fucking incredible. Going in I knew it was going to be a favorite, but I didn’t realize it was going to be this powerful. This is very possibly Sarah J. Maas’ best book ever, which is fucking saying something. If this is just the first book in the series, then holy shit are we in for a ride with the rest of Crescent City. The main point of this review: I AM TRASH FOR SJM. (Also, the next book is going to be called "House of Sky and Breath". I'm calling it. That's what pretty much all of the major characters in this book belonged to and it's the next House up from Earth and Blood in the caste system, so it would make sense to go that way.)

5/5 ⭐ Full review on my Blog: The Dacian She-Wolf 🐺 “Let someone in, give them the power to hurt you, and they’d do exactly that, in the end.” When I saw 800+ pages I got a bit scared. Okay, a bit more. But then... ...I LITERALLY HALTED ABSOLUTELY FUCKING EVERYTHING TO READ THIS BOOK AND I DON’T REGRET A THING. It’s been amazing. AMAZING. At this point in life, I don’t even want to question this woman’s books anymore. Every time I buy a new, fancy wig in order to look decent while reading one of SJM’s books, she snatches it into cosmic space like it’s nothing. I always think I’ve got it well glued to my scalp but oh well. I’m always terribly wrong. Literary goddesses don’t give flying shits about glue anyway. The world-building, as usual, is fabulous. I really love the fact that this world has been fashioned in an urban fantasy style because with this, the whole multiverse Sarah J. Maas is creating (like the goddess of life that she is) gets even more credibility and depth. Now, as a bit of a warning, this book gets full-on New Adult, bad words and all so if you feel offended by this kind of thing then I don’t know what to tell you, deal with it or suck it up. I, for instance, have no problem with this (I’m Romanian, we’re nasty creatures) and it definitely didn’t ruin anything for me. Au contraire, it added flair. At first, the characters of this book don’t seem to be the most lovable. I was actually kind of okay with them until I learned to love and appreciate them, but I think that is because they are new characters in a new world and it gets a bit more time to get adjusted to everything. I wasn’t very fond of most of the characters in the first books of Throne of Glass and ACOTAR series either so that’s definitely not an issue. It’s normal. After some time passes and I got used to the story, I started to realise that under all that notorious party girl exterior Bryce tries to put like a charm around her, she is a broken soul who’s trying to get through life – life made hard by those who try to tear her down; she’s a braveheart who loves too much; she’s compassionate and smart; she’s a bad bitch. And Danika is her equal bad bitch bestie and I kind of love them both. “It’s easier for me – when people assume the worst about what I am. It lets me see who they really are.” Hunt is a bit of a stiff-ass but he gets better as the story moves on. Still not head-over-heels in love with his character but he’s definitely a good lad. He’s as broken and lonely as Bryce and this is what makes them fall in love so fiercely and deeply. They feel right for each other. They feel like home. “You are where I want to end up. A life – with you. You are my fucking path.” Also, I actually can’t help but love Ruhn, with all of his frat-boy-dude-bro type of attitude he has at the beginning. Yeah, Ruhn’s the one I truly liked from the beginning. He’s such a goof at heart, I can feel it. Now, we have to talk about this too, a kind-of warning matter like the bad words thingy – even though there are some serious matters going around the Crescent City, this book is very sexy. Sexy for real. And some sexy things also happen *oopsie*. Just harness your horses, please. SJM already mastered this skill of mixing business with pleasure in her books so be prepared to feel a bit uncomfortable at the smut but get fast over it because people die and demons roam free in that world. And there are some juicy secrets teasing us too so you won’t have time to catch your breath. Blush a bit, go wash your eyes and get over it. This book means business. Because you’ll see after you pick it up, the last 200 pages are THE SHIT. I honestly cried at least three times and I wasn’t feeling very myself by the end of it. You know a book gets to you when you broke down crying, so guess what? Brace yourselves, this book wants to catch you off guard. So, with all that being said, GO READ THIS BOOK. And find yourselves a new obsession in it. As I did. It’s amazing. “She was sea and sky and stone and blood and wings and earth and stars and darkness and light and bone and flame.”

4.5 Stars I know it's not "cool" to like SJM books anymore...all the cool kids say she's tired, she doesn't have enough "rep" in her books, she's too trope-y, her males are too "masculine," angels and fae have been done too many times before, blah, blah, fucking blah... I'm not here to rate the literary elements here, people. I'm not here to ferret out any imagined or un-imagined social warrior stances in a barely adult Urban Fantasy book meant for entertainment. And this was scrumptious. Was the beginning somewhat clunky and hard to get into? Yes. But I was prepared. And that should be expected in almost any first in a new fantasy series. Was it too long? Yeah, probably. But I also wouldn't trade in any of the length and, in turn, lose any of the world/character-building. Did a lot of the characters remind me of characters from her other books? Sure. But again, I don't care. At the end of any given day, I am just a basic bitch who reads for ENTERTAINMENT. And I found this book to be 800 pages of a good time. Can't wait for book two.

THE ENDING WAS SO GOOD!!! Soooo much happened that I could have never predicted, especially with unraveling the mystery/murders. The beginning took me a little bit to get invested and bond with all the characters but then once I did I loved it! I especially love that this book has fantasy, romance, and mystery. I've said it before & I'll say it again, my FAVORITE genre combos!! Also love all the characters - Hunt is 😍, love Bryce - she is a great badass FMC, Lehabah has my heartttt, and I also really like Ruhn - I hope he gets a strong subplot in the next two books (I'm especailly intrigued by his potential romance plot line!)

this is the best book i will read in 2020 2021. so let it be written, so let it be done. amen.

“That's the point of it, Bryce. Of life. To live, to love, knowing that it might all vanish tomorrow. It makes everything that much more precious.” As a fan of both Throne of Glass and A Court of Thorns and Roses, I knew I'd eventually dive into Crescent City, but I waited until the series was complete. Why? A few reasons: these books are massive, and I wanted all the details fresh in my mind. Plus, I figured that by waiting, I'd benefit from the flood of fan art (which, as a visual reader, really helps me connect with the characters), and I’d have access to summaries and discussions if anything got confusing. But even after the series wrapped up, the hardcovers just sat on my shelves, staring me down. Their sheer size was intimidating, and I half-worried this series would feel too similar to Maas's earlier work. Thankfully, I was completely wrong, this book is an epic in every sense. It’s a sprawling fantasy that masterfully blends urban fantasy, mystery, and slow-burn romance into a truly unforgettable experience. Let’s talk world-building. The world of Crescent City is incredibly layered. Maas creates a complex society teeming with angels, shifters, Fae, and humans, all set against a politically charged backdrop. Yes, the beginning can feel overwhelming (I was warned by reviews, thankfully). But trust me, it’s worth sticking with. Every piece of information is intentional, and once the story gains momentum, you’re completely immersed in this rich, dangerous, and vivid world. “Then let the world know that my first act of freedom was to help my friends.” In many ways, Maas helped define the romantasy genre, and while Bryce Quinlan and Hunt Athalar initially felt like typical Maas protagonists, they quickly grew on me. Their romance is a serious slow burn (I found myself internally screaming “just kiss already!” several times) but it was worth the wait. I was also pleasantly surprised that some of the cheesier elements from her past writing were toned down here. They’re still present but handled with more finesse. The supporting cast is a highlight. The theme of found family is beautifully explored, and the dynamics between Bryce, her friends, and even former enemies are heartfelt and well-developed. Danika, Ruhn, and even smaller characters (can we please get a book for Tharion?!) all feel essential and alive. As for the plot, what begins as a murder mystery quickly unravels into a grander, high-stakes narrative that dives into ancient secrets and world-shaking revelations. The last quarter of the book? Absolutely wild. I’d compare it to a “Sanderlanche,” but here we get a full “Saralaunche.” Twists, payoffs, emotional gut punches, it’s all there. I couldn’t put it down. “You're the person I don't need to explain myself to - not when it matters. You see everything I am, and you don't run away from it.” In short, this book is a commitment, but one that’s absolutely worth it. The slow start docked it slightly for me, hence the 4.5 stars, but I’m rounding up because once it clicks, it soars. An unforgettable read that reignited my love for the genre. P.S. My pre-reading review was something about separating the art from the artist and double standards which gained attention and the discussion in the comment section.

I'm on BookTube now! 😊 “Through love, all is possible.” To be honest I don’t even know where to start with this review. This book was great in so many different ways that I’m having a really tough time to sort my thoughts and feelings. What I can definitely tell you is that this book is one of the slower ones. It has 803 pages and up to page 500 every single one of them is used to build up the plot and to introduce all the characters. I know a lot of other people who reviewed “House of Earth and Blood” actually didn’t like this long build up and saw it as a huge flaw but personally I think that it was important for the storyline. Are 500 pages to introduce the characters and the world setting too long? Maybe. But in this book it worked for me. I guess everyone who ever read high fantasy knows that plenty of pages go into the history of the MCs and the world building. (Quite honestly sometimes you’d even get pages of descriptions of the surroundings. I’m looking at you LOTR!!! *lol*) Every info I got in HOEAB was interesting and important for the plot though so I’m definitely not complaining. ;-) Even the least important characters and side-characters had history and I was living and breathing for it. Sure, there are some characters like Tharion, Aidas and Queen Hypaxia I’d love to hear more about (and I’m sure I will in the next book) but considering the many different groups and the complexity of the world Sarah actually did a great job. This said the last 300 pages just about killed me and I couldn’t have stopped reading even if my life would have depended on it. *lol* Yes, it was THAT suspenseful. Quite honestly I have no idea how Sarah wants to top this book!!?? I mean this was book one in a series and my expectations for book two are so high they are scratching the sky. XD Before I think about the next book let’s speak about this one first, okay?! ;-P The characters: Welcome to Crescent City! The city of many possibilities and ALL the spoilers! *lol* So if you don’t want to be spoiled and haven’t read the book yet, I’d recommend to take the next bus out of town because this is going to be a spoiler festival! ;-) Bryce Quinlan: “Do you own any weapons?” The purely male gleam in his eye told her that he assumed she didn’t. “Bother me again,” she said sweetly, just before she shut the window in his face, “and you’ll find out.” I love Bryce so freaking much, I can’t even! This girl is the BEST! I love as good as everything about her and her many flaws only made her even more likable in my eyes! This is a character I could totally relate to and she felt very real! I mean she’s stubborn, clever, resilient, funny, loyal and compassionate. Yes, at times she’s even reckless but it’s all just limited to pushing her boundaries. She never really goes overboard unlike some of Sarah’s other characters and that was really refreshing. Bryce is a very self-confident character and knows exactly what she wants and she’s not only working hard but also has both feet on the ground. The way she dealt with Micah?! OMG!!! That’s a fierce woman right there! *lol* I respect her character and I hope we’ll get to see even more of it in the next book! ”It’s easier for me – when people assume the worst about what I am. It lets me see who they really are.” Hunt Athalar: ”In the harsh bathroom firstlights, his light brown skin was pallid under the black band of thorns across his brow. The tattoo, he’d learned to live with. But he shrank from the look in his dark eyes. Glazed. Empty. Like staring into Hel.” I kinda liked his nickname. Umbra Mortis definitely has some ring to it. *lol* This said I also think in many ways Hunt was the broken, powerful “alphahole” Sarah J. Maas has written about so often. Just like with Rowan and Rhysand his background story is heavy and quite violent which was no surprise because obviously Sarah likes to write about men with baggage. ;-P Of course I still liked him and rooted for his character he just reminded me a lot of all the other men Sarah wrote about. What I certainly didn’t expect was his betrayal and the fact that he knew about the drugs all along! This came as such a surprise and his involvement totally threw me. XD Then again it probably shouldn’t have surprised me. After all he didn’t regret any of his actions and said so multiple times. I wonder where Sarah will go with his character in future. ”By the time Ramuel decided to let me serve as his assassin, it had been nine years since I’d seen sunlight. Since I’d heard the wind or smelled the rain. Since I’d seen grass, or a river, or a mountain. Since I’d flown.” ”There were some of the Fallen who accepted the halo and slave tattoo, you know. After a few decades, they accepted it. Stopped fighting it.” “Why have you never stopped?” “Because we were right then, and we’re still right now. Shahar was only the spear point. I followed her blindly into a battle we could never have won, but I believed in what she stood for.” Danika Fendry: ”It was unheard of, for a shifter to have that sort of power, yet all the standard childhood tests had confirmed it: once Danika Dropped, she’d become a considerable power among the wolves, the likes of which had not been seen since the elder days across the sea.” If I’m completely honest I probably would have married Danika before dating Bryce! *lol* I loved her character so much and I really wish there would have been even more of her. I mean I already knew Danika was going to die, but I wasn’t prepared of how fast I’d grow fond of her and her pack! She was such an amazing person and her death was horrible. >_< At least as horrible as her own mother! I swear, Sabine certainly didn’t make it easy to like her. If there is even the slightest possibility that Danika gets reborn and reappears in the next book I’d be so here for it. XD Is it possible, Sarah? Please! *makes huge puppy eyes* ”Her goal was to protect you. Always. Even from yourself.” Sandriel: ”She and the commander of her triarii, Pollux, take cruelty and punishment to new levels.” He clenched his jaw, shaking off the blood-soaked memories. “They’re not stories to tell on a busy street.” Or at all.” That angel most definitely was no angel at all and should have burned in Hel. I hated Sandriel with a fierce passion and I really wish she would have died in the rebellion! It’s not right that a cruel person like her was that powerful and even though she got what she deserved I still think that her death was too quick. She should have gone to prison for eternity and not died that quickly. >_< Well, she’s dead now and won’t cause any more trouble. XD Tharion, Queen Hypaxia & Aidas: Aidas had nearly vanished into nothing when he added, the words a ghost slithering through the room, “The Oracle did not see. But I did.” Okay, those three were just side characters but each one of them was super intriguing and I would have loved to get more of their background story!!! Like seriously! Just give me more! Aidas the Prince of the Chasm was one hell of an interesting character and Tharion as well as Queen Hypaxia easily won me over as well. I always knew that med witch was suspicious but I didn’t even think about the possibility that she might be Ruhn’s betrothed. *lol* Let’s hope all of them will be a part of the next book! <3 “I know the costs of war, Governor.” Bold male, to say that, to look Sandriel dead in the eye. The relationships & ships: Bryce & Hunt: ”Only sorrow lay here. And something like understanding. Like she saw him, as he’d seen her in that shooting gallery, marked every broken shard and didn’t mind the jagged bits. Under the table, the toe of her high hell brushed against his boot. A little confirmation that yes – she saw his guilt, the pain, and she wouldn’t shy from it.” What I really loved about their relationship is that it grew steadily. There was no insta-love or some unnecessary drama. They started out as two strangers that both knew about the other’s reputation and didn’t trust each other. The more they got to know each other and the more time they spent together, the more they started to see the true person behind all their bravado though. It was so refreshing to see them develop a really close friendship. Sure, there was attraction but it was just a part of their friendship and didn’t define it. I adored how they started to take pictures of each other to make new memories and how just to be around each other helped them to deal with their problems. They both had a lot on their plate but together they managed to pull through it. I still can’t believe that Hunt was in on the dugs though. That was quite a shocker and I’m kind of worried Sarah will pull a typical Maas and make us dislike Hunt in the next book. So far all her books started out with a love interest the MC would die for and then she ended up with someone completely different. *lol* It would be such a shame if that happened in here too. I guess only time will tell. XD ”And she tried not to look too shocked when he laid his head on her thigh, his arm coming across her to rest on the pillow. A child laying his head on his mother’s lap. A friend looking for any sort of reassuring contact to remind him that he was a living being. A good person, no matter what they made him do.” ”You’re my friend. Who watches trashy TV with me and puts up with my shit. You’re the person I don’t need to explain myself to – not when it matters. You see everything I am, and you don’t run away from it.” He smiled at her, let it convey everything that glowed inside him at her words. “I like that.” Bryce & Ruhn: ”He’d wounded her, and it had scared the Hel out of her that he held such power. That she had wanted so many things from him, imagined so many things with her brother – adventures and holidays and ordinary moments – and he had the ability to rip it all away.” Ahhh I absolutely loved this sibling bond! I mean yes, at the beginning of the book Bryce is keeping her distance to Ruhn and doesn’t want to have to do anything with him, but to be honest the reason for that was pretty shady if you ask me. I mean yes, they had a fight, but it’s no reason to avoid your brother for years. XD The explanation why she brushed him off was pretty lame but then again there are siblings in real life that don’t talk with each other for ages because of one silly thing. Believe me I’ve seen it – siblings that didn’t talk to each other for 30 years because of some minor matter and died without reconciling – so I suppose it might be realistic after all. I’m just glad Ruhn and Bryce are talking again and I definitely want to find out more about Ruhn in the next book. He was just a small part in here and I’m very curious about him and his life. Also I really thought Ruhn might be bi or pan but then Queen Hypaxia appeared and I guess that’s it. >_< I’m pretty certain my queer ass won’t see a real LGBTQ+ pairing in this series as well. Which is a shame but then again it’s probably better if Sarah doesn’t write them. I mean not every straight author can pull off a realistic queer rep so I respect her for steering clear of it. It takes guts to say “no” and to know your own limits. ;-) ”His blue eyes gleamed in the streetlights, dawn still far off. A breeze off the Istros ruffled his black hair. And it was the tears that filled his eyes, the wonder in them, that had Bryce launching forward. Had her throwing her arms around her brother and holding him tightly. Ruhn didn’t hesitate before his arms came around her. He shook so badly that she knew he was crying.” Bryce & Syrinx & Lehabah: ”My friends are with me and I am not afraid.” THOSE THREE BROKE MY FREAKING HEART!!!! AHHHH!! I’m still crying for Lehabah!!! This little precious fire sprite!!! I can’t!!! T_T I loved Lehabah so much! She was so fierce and compassionate and had quite an attitude but ahh that only made her even more likeable! I loved that she always called out Bryce on her coldness and unfriendly behaviour and that she was such a gossip. *lol* I can’t believe she died and the scene when she fought to give Bryce those precious seconds had me in tears. I was SOBBING reading that scene!!! SOBBING! T_T I’m still not over it. I guess I’ll never be. Also Syrinx is such a precious creature! <333 I want a Syrinx as well! Bryce sobbed, “I bought you, and now I set you free, Lehabah.” Lehabah’s smile didn’t falter. “I know,” she said. “I peeked in your drawer.” And despite the monster trying to break loose behind them, Bryce chocked on a laugh before she begged, “You are a free person – you do not have to do this. You are free, Lehabah.” Yet Lehabah remained at the foot of the stairs. “Then let the world know that my first act of freedom was to help my friends.” Bryce & Danika: ”Bryce patted Danika’s silken head as she passed. Danika nipped her fingers, teeth flashing. Bryce chuckled, entering the narrow kitchen.” The bond between Danika and Bryce was so amazing!!! <333 I’m such a sucker for close friendships and found family and Danika and Bryce were like the embodiment of this trope! They had a friendship you rarely find and I count myself lucky to have the same kind of closeness with my bestie. The tender gestures, cuddling, hugging, all those physical gestures of affection but also the strong mental bond and spiritual closeness, it was all there with Bryce and Danika, which is the reason why I loved them both so much! <333 Ahh how I wish Danika wouldn’t have had to die. But that moment when Danika answered and told Bryce to “light it up”. OMG!!! She made the drop with her, from the other side she still helped Bryce and helped her to make the Drop!!! I can’t! I just can’t!!! Those two are killing me! <333 *weeps in a corner* I really wish Danika wouldn’t have died. T_T She whispered. “I’m scared.” Danika grabbed her hand again. “That’s the point of it, Bryce. Of life. To live, to love, knowing that it might all vanish tomorrow. It makes everything that much more precious.” She took Bryce’s face in her hands and pressed their brows together. Conclusion: “House of Earth and Blood” was quite something and I loved to read this book! Sarah tackled so many important and interesting topics and she did it in a very sensitive manner. It might have seemed to be a slow paced book up to the 500 pages mark but I think it was necessary to build up the story like that. I have absolutely no idea how Sarah J. Maas wants to top this book but I’m more than just willing to find out! *lol* Let’s hope the wait for “Crescent City 2” won’t be all too long. XD

This book was good!!!!!!!!!! And I'm angry about it? Get ready for a mostly rambling rant/rave review of how this book got 5 stars from me. But first, a warning: I don't usually curse in my reviews, but this one might get a little more colorful than usual. In honor of Bryce and the fact that unlike SJM's previous characters, she can freely curse. Beware. Also, don't worry, this has no spoilers. At least, I don't think it does. But then again, maybe? Like, low-key, but then again a lot of these things were bound to happen? Idk man read at your own discretion So, I almost didn't read this book. In part, because I had lowkey forgotten that it even existed, and then because even after I cared enough to remember I simply didn't care enough to spend hours of my life reading it (this book is 800 fucking pages, mind you). And yet, because I am me, and I have no sense of self-control or common sense, I read it. Like, just now. Like, two minutes ago as I am writing this. And I liked it. A lot. And I don't know how to feel about it. It's no secret that I don't particularly like Sarah J. Maas's books (sorry not sorry). It's no secret that I dislike 95% of her character in ACOTAR (except Cassian and Nesta, cause I'm obviously trash). It's also common knowledge that I think that her books are just a tad bit overrated. But damn it, this book was so good! No, it wasn't perfect. Yes, it was really fucking long. But oh my Lord, it was so fucking entertaining! Sarah played dirty in this book and I loved it! I also hated it because it stressed me the eff out. But mostly, I loved it. All the characters were so interesting and cool and I just wanted more of them. Also, I can't possibly believe that I'm typing these words right now but damn it, I loved Hunt, the main male love interest. I don't particularly care for the 'males' in the Throne of Glass series. The males in ACOTAR all piss me off (especially Rhys, whom I cannot stand because he has no flaws or depth or anything that would make him interesting). But Hunt? I loved this dude. I liked him so much I was beginning to wonder if this was, in fact, an SJM novel that I was reading or if I'd been bamboozled. In fact, I liked this whole book so much more than any other SJM novel I've read. And I, due to my masochistic reading tendencies, have read all of them. I think it was the lack of phrases like "fae males" and "prick" and "mate" and "vulgar gesture" (that last one is probably because Bryce can actually say the word fuck here), among other annoying and overused things like *shudders, cringes and dies* "velvet softness/ velvet wrapped steel". I mean, they do still show up in some places but it was sparingly and so they didn't stand out. Sarah also (thank God!) toned down her excessive use of ellipses. There were still more than in the average novel, but far less than in ACOTAR, that's for sure. But seriously, why don't we discuss the fact that she overuses ellipses more often? Like, you know how they say Dickens was paid per word, I swear SJM is paid per ellipsis... I also loved the fact that SJM lowkey disses the males in her previous books with her description of an "alphahole" (an 'alpha asshole', in case you hadn't gotten it). Seriously, she basically, on the lowest of all the keys, described Rhys perfectly and it was hilarious and refreshing to realize that Sarah might actually be self-aware. And for all you Rhys lovers who will argue that he is not an alphahole. I beg to differ. Also, this might be the wrong review for you. But, enough about Rhys, let's get back to Hunt, whom I actually liked. He's described as a brooding, solitary badass (which I suppose he is), but then he spent most of his days watching tv with Bryce and cooking her dinner and playing with her pet chimera and basically being super domesticated and nice and great. Like, he can still easily kill people, but he was also super chill and surprisingly cool and not annoyingly overpowered like Rhys (in case you hadn't noticed, I don't like him). Bryce was also so much more likable than I thought she'd be. I think it's because I was expecting her to be like Feyre from ACOTAR (whom I really don't like either), but no, Bryce was actually pretty cool too. Unlike Feyre she wasn't a Mary Sue who was ridiculously overpowered and could do no wrong. Plus, minor spoiler, but also not really, it 's very vague and won't ruin anything for you: Bryce casually vacuuming the remaining ashes of her enemy after lighting them on fire, is the most savage thing I've ever read and I was grinning like a maniac as I read that. Also, Danika Fendyr is too good for this world. That's all there is to say. And Ruhn Danaan. He just needed a hug. I would have gladly given him one. But let's acknowledge the elephant in the room and talk about the fact that I gave this book 5 stars. I have never given an SJM book that honor, and I didn't think this would be it. For most of what I read, I expected this to be a three, maybe four-star novel. It was good, I was enjoying it but my brain and my heart were still at odds. Then the last quarter of this long-ass book came around and what happened was that essentially, my heart told my brain to shut the fuck up, and my brain, too engrossed in what was happening in the story, decided to obey. This fucking book *almost* made me cry! Yes, that's right, my cold little heart actually managed to hurt for these characters and signal to my eyes to water. The tears never actually spilled, but that was mostly because I was in a room with other people during that chapter and I refused to show weakness! Had I been alone, I don't doubt my mascara would have run. That's when I knew the rating was skewing in the 5-star direction. Then, during the epic, heart racing showdown that was the ending???? My eyeballs were glued to the page. I was grinning and cheering and flipping off fictional characters as I read (I was alone in my room at this time so I didn't look insane). I was so fucking invested I doubt I blinked the entire time. That whole ending was chaos in the best possible way. Although I have to criticize (as if that's not what I've been doing the whole time), the fact that right before the epic climax of this novel, before all the shit hit the fan, and everything that could go wrong, did go wrong, the main villain revealed themselves and then, in the most dramatic and cliche fashion started fucking monologing their evil plan like a damned Disney villain. There's a whole chapter of this villain just stating their evil plan and confessing to everything like they knew they were a character in a novel and needed to clearly state in explicit detail what the heck was going on in a way that even the dumbest of us could follow. I rolled my eyes so many times I could barely concentrate on the fact that it was supposed to be a tense scene. I just wanted the villain to open their eyes to their stupidity and shut the fuck up. I just kept thinking of Syndrome the entire time. But alas, arrogant people like to hear themselves talk, I guess. Then, the end, like, the "third to last chapter", part of the end was a bit cheesy and annoying for me though. After everything that went down, you'd think that they'd have things on their mind other than wanting to get it on (like making sure their friends weren't all dead) but no, this was an SJM novel after all. We can only expect so much. Also, I just realized I said absolutely nothing about the actual story and plot so, here you go: the worldbuilding was wild and creative and while a confusing at first, it was all really well woven together considering that different types of magic and technology had to be integrated. The story was well written, if a bit long (this damned book is 800 pages long!), but it's ok, I'm not too mad at it. Despite the fact that I lost many hours of sleep because of it. Lastly, Unlike ACOMAF and ACOWAR, this book actually had a plot, and didn't spend hundreds of pages on filler content and gratuitous sex scenes which is, of course, always a bonus in my book. Also, the plot was pretty gosh-darned engaging. So, I applaud you, Sarah. Against all odds, I sincerely applaud you. In the end, this book wasn't perfect and even as I write this, my brain whispers to me in question as to whether this really was a five star novel for me and it brings up some seriously valid points to support its claims. But, my heart is still in charge and it tells me that yes, yes it is, so I'm rolling with it! (Or maybe, I'm just trying really hard to justify the two days of my life I spent reading this behemoth of a book despite having work to do. Who knows?) I can't believe I'm saying this, but I am super excited for this book's sequel. I am also dreading the fact that it's probably going to be really fucking long and that fact is already stressing me out. (It just occurred to me that more than being a raving review about House of Earth and Sky, this is really just a rant of ACOTAR, and I'm totally ok with that.) Follow Me Here Too: My Blog || Twitter || Bloglovin' || Instagram || Tumblr || Pinterest

✅Reread #1 (Oct 2023)- Loved each and every moment of this 800+ page book. It's more than that. My experience with it is that I was fully able to immerse myself in this world. Bryce, Hunt, Danika and Ruhn (along with other characters) hold a special place in my heart. I personally think the Crescent City series is being heavily slept on. I see people always talk about ACOTAR and ToG but CC is equally (if not more) valid. Can just tell how much love and thinking was poured into it by SJM. Ngl I cried and laughed so much, it was so worth it. 🚨SPOILER ALERT🚨 1. So are we on the same page thinking Rhysand's last name might possibly be Danaan? 2. I wonder why there is just an Autumn King in the CC world. And what Bryce might learn of the Autumn Court in Prythian. END SPOILER ~•~•~ Original Review (Dec, 2021) Through love, all is possible. I call it unputdownable. This book made me go through so many emotions. It all hits the reader like a truck. You can feel what the characters are going through. Sarah J Maas did well. The book starts slow and there are certain parts to it which weren't necessary for the reader to know. But I'll say it all ties up well towards the end. It picks up pace and is action packed, especially in last few chapters. The characters need a bit of warming up to. At first I had bit of tough time relating to Bryce but eventually I started to like her. Maybe Maas intended to write her that way. Hunt is dreamy, not perfect but dreamy. Ruhn, Lehabah and of course Danika are absolutely badass supporting characters. The chemistry between Hunt and Bryce was built beautifully. It's noteworthy that all the characters work well together. Tho this book had a lot of swearing and so little smut, that is surprising coming from Maas. Genuinely can't wait for the next book in the series. But will I say it's better than ACOTAR? I guess we'll just wait and see. 😀

2025 reread*** Yep, still holds up! 2021 Reread*** Okay, I enjoyed this even more on a reread! It hadn't quite occurred to me the first time around that this book is structured as a murder mystery, which is really fun. There are SO many great twists and I kind of love Bryce as a main character. This is one of my favorite books by Maas and I love how it blends paranormal romance, urban fantasy, and cozy murder mystery. It's a blend I have a great time with. Upgrading my rating from 4.5 to 5 stars upon a reread because I really adored this. *** Wow, that was a RIDE! First things first: 1) You can see my reading vlog on my YouTube channel HERE: https://youtu.be/TkCRid7deIs 2) No, there actually isn't all that much smut in this book. A few steamier scenes very late in the book that are quite tame and serve for needed character/relationship development. There are a lot of references to sex throughout and the MC Bryce (half-human, half-Fae, supposed party girl but with unexpected depths and a complicated background) is not shy about her history of hooking up with people, but the amount of actual explicit content is pretty minimal. However, I would expect to see more in book 2. 3) No, it definitely did not need to be 800 pages long. The first 2/3 of the book really should have been edited down in terms of wordy descriptions and unnecessarily lengthy passages. This probably should have been more like 600 pages, BUT most of the scenes feel important even if they are sometimes longer than they needed to be and it definitely still kept my interest. 4) No, it does not read like YA. It very much reads like an adult urban fantasy with a murder mystery subplot and heavy romantic elements. Also, there are a lot of F-bombs. 5) No, the cast of characters is not all white and straight! There are several POC side characters with significant roles, and at least 3 queer side characters. I would love to see many of those characters further developed in later books, but she seems to have done quite a bit of course correcting here. There are clear character descriptions. For example Juniper, one of Bryce's best friends, is a beautiful and talented dancer described as having dark brown skin and thick curly hair, but she faces discrimination in the dance world because she is a faun and there has never been a faun as a lead dancer. There are several other examples, but in general I think she has done a good job of diversifying her cast of characters in terms of appearance, race, class, sexuality, and power, with a subtle eye to examining oppression and power imbalances. 6) No, the primary love interest is not another example of toxic masculinity with an unhealthy relationship. Rather, Bryce and Hunt both have strong personalities but feel like they are on pretty equal footing in terms of power dynamics. We get more than one explicit conversation about gender and power imbalances, with external examples of where things can go very wrong. Bryce has even coined a term (that feels a bit like SJM poking fun at herself) "Alphahole". (a mashup of alpha-male and asshole, with some specific and entertaining definitions offered in the text) 7) No, the writing isn't completely different from her other books. While this does feel quite different in some ways and is in my opinion better, people who just hate her style of writing are probably not going to suddenly fall in love with Crescent City. If you already like her books, I would definitely recommend reading this one. If you like urban fantasy, I think it's worth giving it a try. If you absolutely hate the way she writes, you will continue to find things to be annoyed with here. Most of those things I either don't mind or actually like, but there are definitely scenes and writing quirks that I think will be criticized by people who just don't mesh with her work. With that out of the way, let's talk about the book! In general, House of Earth and Blood is a whole lot of fun. I really think SJM excels at character development and interpersonal drama (as opposed to big action or battle sequences) and she really leans into that here. We get a large cast of interesting characters, powerful friend groups, burgeoning romances, lots of banter and light moments, relational drama, big twists and unexpected revelations. The last 250 pages or so are full of "OMG WHAT?!" moments with fast paced action and surprising twists. When we do FINALLY (after lots of near misses and teasing) get a steamier scene, it feels very earned and the characters have been through a lot together. One thing that I like a lot (though not every reader feels the same) is that SJM intersperses intense, dark, and emotional scenes with lighter, more everyday moments between characters. I think this serves to develop the characters, allow their relationships to breathe, and creates a sense of concreteness that can be lacking in very fast-paced fantasy. It also feels important for organically developing a romantic relationship between characters with a lot of walls and a lot of trauma. You get plenty of that here- characters hanging out on the couch eating takeout, showering and sleeping in between perilous moments, engaging in silly banter and taking pictures on their phones, having a heart to heart, etc. I really loved that element, but I can see why some readers might find those scenes dull or unnecessary. The world of Crescent City is big and complex. The first part of the book is slow-going because there is a lot of introduction to the world and characters. The final book will contain maps and character/hierarchy charts, all of which would be very useful to have. The book is set in a slightly futuristic city that runs on both magic and technology, populated by fae, shifters, vampires, mermaids, satyrs, witches, humans, and more. This gives it a blend of modern sensibilities with fantasy elements and I tend to enjoy books that have this combination. But once you get a handle on the world and some of the characters, the narrative completely sucks you in. If you have read other books by this author, you might know that ACOTAR and Throne of Glass are set in the same universe, though not in the same world. It seems very clear that Crescent City is also intended to be set in the same universe. If you have read Tower of Dawn and Kingdom of Ash, then some of the larger scale world-building in those books will probably feel familiar here. I'm really curious to see where she takes that in future installments and I wouldn't be surprised to see some degree of crossover or influence between worlds. I love when authors are able to create connections between series and I think she has set herself up to do that very effectively here. There is a complex political hierarchy that we learn quite a lot about, although I still want to know more. The planet is ruled by Archangels, who in turn answer to the mysterious and powerful Asteri. This system was inspired by the Roman Empire and slaves are branded with magical tattoos that say SPQM. Late in the book we also see brutal punishment through crucifixion, which was a torturous Roman form of execution, mostly known today in reference to Jesus. Humans are typically oppressed and not valued due to their lack of magic, but there are humans rebelling in some parts of the empire with rebel cells existing in Crescent City as well. It's a really interesting world and I'm excited to get more in the series. I could do an entire section on all of the characters in this book, but I will leave that to other reviewers who will doubtless do a great job with it. In general, I thought there were a lot of very interesting and compelling characters, fantastically awful villains (though fyi, near the end we do get a QUITE extended villain monologue which was interesting, but a tad excessive), a great slow-burn romance, and side characters and romances I want to know more about and see developed further. While it isn't a perfect book, it is pretty damn good and I thoroughly enjoyed my time with it. If my biggest complaint is that it's too long, she's doing a lot right. Huge thanks to Isabella Ogbolumani (@thefeministbookworm on Instagram) for sending me an advance review copy of this book! All opinions are my own. CW include (but are not limited to) drug and alcohol use, loss of a loved one, violence, torture, suicidal ideation, estranged family relationships, slut-shaming and bullying (not portrayed as positive), attempted sexual assault.

She got me again. Just when I thought I didn't like this book or character, everything changed, and it happened again. I hate parts of this book, but they just make me love the great part more. Awesome storytelling. I had high hopes for this book. Throne of Glass is my favourite book series, a Court of Thones and Roses was good but not at quite the same level for me. This is a pretty good cross between the two. Still not quite TOG, but slightly better CTR. This book is a huge undertaking close to 800 pages, of which I hated the first 100 pages. I could not see the "party princesses" being the heroes at the same level as Celaena. What I can say is that nothing in this book is window dressing. Everything leads to something. The last 150 pages clinched this book for me, and I could not put it down. The future is magic and science at two sides of the same coin. A world where supernatural is normal, but there is a hierarchy. Everyone knows their place or else. That is apart from Bryce and her best friend Danika. They do whatever and whoever they want. When things go wrong, they have each other's back and Hel with any alpholes who say otherwise. Then it all changes. Very few people in this book are who I thought they were. Just when I thought I had it all figured out, I get hit with a twist. This book is a little more lusty than TOG,and if i had one criticism, it is the number of F-bomb dropped in it. One in almost every conversation. Otherwise, it's an incredible story that I can't wait to see what happens next.

Still my favourite book ever, even better on reread! If you're looking for in depth content for House of Earth & Blood, I have a whole ton on my channel Detailed Recap - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y_ku-... Non-Spoiler Review - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AmDnJ... Spoiler Reactions - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mr2sJ... Possible Connections to ACOTAR & Throne of Glass -https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S8Xqs...

I mean, who's surprised I gave this 5 stars? Not me. Likable main character who had an amazing friendship. Brooding love interest a world filled with fae, werewolves, mer people, witches and humans..an urban fantasy. Gah I loved every second of this book. Does that make me trash? I'm not sure...

"Immortality is a long time to have a giant stick up your ass." Previously, on "I Might Have Accidentally Become A SJM Fan": watch me unexpectedly fly through a 600-something-page long book I initially didn't even want to read and nonchalantly throw it 5 stars like it's confetti at a freaking carnival parade I wasn't even invited to. 🎶song: My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark by Fall Out Boy🎶 Seriously, though, this was pure bliss and I'm not even ashamed of saying sjm got me blushing like that girl with the tiny bangs in Bridgerton - Daphne I think her name is- at the word (view spoiler) and totally enjoying a slow-burn full of pining for the first time in my reader life. Jokes aside, liking this as much as I did was an actual surprise as I went into this a bit skeptical, both because it's freaking long(er than my usual 300-something-page reads) and because Sarah J. Maas and I have met twice and it didn't always go well. I read Throne of Glass - and hated it - and the first two installments of the A Court of Thorns and Roses series - and enjoyed them-, so this book was like a bookish scale and I was sure it'd help me decide SJM is my type or author or if we're not meant to be. It turns out I might have a little crush. Truth be told, it took me a while to warm up to her writing and the way she describes what a character is always wearing and doing is sometimes a put off that I try to avoid reading about if I can if I can, but she really did something with this one book, even if I can'd pinpoint what it is exactly. Maybe it's the fact that it reads like one of those dark-ish eight-episode Netflix shows I love to binge on on weekends; maybe it's the fact that, despite being long like the Bible, it's a huge page-turner that'll make you forget time exists; maybe it depends on it being easy to follow even for someone who, like me, is not really that familiar with the whole fae lore whoopla; maybe it's because Bryce, Hunt and Ruhn (aka the three narrators, although the story is told in third person) are all so well crafted and round and so great I couldn't decide who I liked best; or maybe it's just that this is clearly a fantasy murder mystery novel, but the story also focuses on friendship, family and self-worth with the right amount of spicy romance sprinkled on top, making it not only the best and most mature SJM book I've read so far, but also a golden treasure kind of novel that contains all the genres I like the most, a beautiful enemies-to-partners-to-friends-to-lovers-to-whatthefuckisevenhappeninghere romance, and my favorite tropes/anti-tropes. Also, I gotta give it to Sarah. When she wants to, she really can create female characters that aren't apologetically towards their femininity and I absolutely appreciate how most of her female characters saw the "I'm not like other girls" eye-rolling trope, and turned into a "I'm exactly like other girls and there's absolutely nothing wrong with that". "Light it up!" So, in conclusion: I'll consider the Throne of Glass fiasco an isolated case from now on because, yeah, I may not be SJM's biggest fan but I certainly am this book's. And you can bet what you want that I'm gonna be here cheering like one of the frigging Muppets when the sequel comes out. 🎶song: Oceans by Jacob Lee 🎶 august 2022 my dear friend and coworker (the one I always ramble about ACOTAR to), gave me a hardback copy of this book for my birthday. I guess this means a re-read is in order 😎 ____ Oh and btw this is all virginia's fault. u can blame her and all her reading updates for this mess I got myself into. Thanks for the unintentional recommandation, Ginny XD

whore for bryce quinlan and not to threaten SJM (but yes to threaten SJM) if hunt and bryce are not endgame i am starting a fucking riot. i will protest the shit out of the book. DO NOT DO THIS TO US AGAIN. DO NOT PLAY THIS SHIT WITH US. IT'S DIFFERENT THIS TIME. IT HAS TO BE. i tried not to get attached to Hunt in preparation but gods-dammit-(see what i did there heh) -i had no choice over the matter: the so called shadow of death who watches trashy reality tv and walks syrinx and wears his sunball hat backwards and is a computer geek and mistakes unicorn toys for vibrators and eats Bryce's shit food so she doesn't get offended and dont you dare take him away from us someone read the next book for me and tell me if they're endgame bc if they're not I'm just going to pretend this book was a standalone thank you for your service

[reread #1]: even knowing what would happen that end still turned me into an emotional mess <33 ______ SJM keeps breaking my heart over and over again and I keep coming back every. single. time. I have a very toxic relationship with her books. But I will never stop coming back to them, because stopping is like telling me to stop breathing. Does that sound dramatic? Because I'm dead serious. The day I stop reading Sarah's books is when you know my angelic spirit has fallen and I've been possessed by one of those devils. *cough* you know who you are *cough* And every time I finish one of her books, I feel like I'm overflowing with love. There's so much happiness, heartbreak, and then excruciating pain as I realize that I have to wait a millennium for the next book. Oh, and the slump that comes afterwards💀 Curse all of you who told me to read this right now. Each and every one of you are devils. I know some people found the beginning to be slow, but I actually didn't have any problems with it. I found it perfect, learning about the world and the characters was beautiful. I wasn't bored for one second and it literally makes me so happy because I was scared this wouldn't meet my expectations. Shame on me for doubting this queen. And don't even get me started on the ending of this masterpiece. I did not see any of that coming (view spoiler) I was literally sobbing so much. What is it with the ending always destroying me??? It was so beautiful and heartbreaking, I swear. ═══°∴,*⋅✲══〖☪〗═══✲⋅*,∴°════ “That's the point of it, Bryce. Of life. To live, to love, knowing that it might all vanish tomorrow. It makes everything that much more precious.” I've loved every one of SJM's female protagonists, but ohmygod Bryce Quinlan totally beats them all. She literally leaves me in awe. The way she loves so much, and would live life to its fullest—that is until the death of her friends, Danika Fendyr and The Pack of Devils *sobbing* From there, she's an empty shell of her former self. And the thing is that we barely knew Danika and the others we were even warned smh yet it was still heartbreaking when they were murdered and watching Bryce in so much pain just broke me. Leave it to Sarah to be able to destroy my soul for characters that only appeared in the first 100 pages. Danika and Bryce's friendship was so beautiful I could cry for eternity and still never recover from what happened. Bryce, my queen.🥺 Even heartbroken, she tried so hard to make it seem like she's okay so that those around her wouldn't worry, putting on the image of the classic party girl who doesn't give a care in the world, meanwhile she's slowly breaking more and more on the inside— Okay, but the way Bryce is bold enough to snap selfies right in front of the Archangel, Sandriel, and can literally make the Umbra Mortis feel like he's three inches tall is actually just too good. The Umbra Mortis looked pissed, his arms crossed and wings flaring slightly, but Bryce just breezed past him without so much as a glance. Causing Athalar to slowly turn, arms slackening at his sides, as if such a thing had never happened in his long, miserable life. I seriously could go on forever with the amount of times Hunt was so pissed by Bryce, especially in the beginning ahaha omg. ═══°∴,*⋅✲══〖☪〗═══✲⋅*,∴°════ “Bryce was a ghost for a long while, Hunt. She pretended she wasn't, but she was.” The helicopter finally pulled into the air. “You brought her back to life.” From the moment Hunt Athalar looked Bryce right in the eye and told her to "calm the fuck down," I knew I'd love him. I mean, who wouldn't??? I can definitely see similarities between Hunt and all of Sarah's other male love interests but you know what? Hunt is a thousand times better than Rowan and Rhysand. I love the way he challenges Bryce and tries to care for her, while at the same time not being super overprotective *cough* unlike some people, although there is still the 2nd book for him to act like that hopefully not He's the typical tall, dark and brooding guy who has a tragic backstory—just like Rowan (altho he has white hair but you get what I mean) and Rhysand, yet somehow I actually love him way more than both. Bryce's relationship with Hunt is most definitely superior to all of Sarah's other series' relationships involving the main characters. Like the banter?? The openness of it?? The heartwarming scenes??? Perfection. I could literally compile all of their convos into a whole book and never get tired of reading them. Their interactions were pure gold. “You’re my friend. Who watches trashy TV with me and puts up with my shit. You’re the person I don’t need to explain myself to—not when it matters. You see everything I am, and you don’t run away from it.” Also, just... the shower scene *sobbing* it was so beautiful and heartbreaking and that's all I need to say. ═══°∴,*⋅✲══〖☪〗═══✲⋅*,∴°════ "The only thing I want to be called right now is your brother." He added softly, "If you'll have me." I literally love almost every character in this book, but of all of them, Ruhn Danaan is just everything. He's such a cinnamon roll. So sweet and trying so hard to be there for Bryce after their falling out years before. That scene at the end had me crying so much. I love you, Ruhn. Okay, but even though Ruhn is everything, I would marry Declan Emmet. Declan is my favourite i know, how could i possibly have chosen a favourite?? He's who I've fallen in love with. Why you ask? This guy is a computer geek, master hacker, tech god (thinking abt a certain scene iykyk) and I love that. Plus he's charming, gorgeous and super sweet?? I've fallen so hard for Declan, it's not even funny🤚 Also being with Declan would mean I could be friends with Ruhn and Flynn🥺 I love the trio omg Seriously though, can I have a Declan?? I've found a new book boyfriend omg😭 Oh also I want Tharion, too. Knowing that there's going to be 200% more Tharion in CC2 makes my heart happy sdfsfs there can never be enough Tharion. “Bryce, this is Tharion Ketos.” She stepped closer to the concrete edge of the quay. “An old friend.” Tharion grinned at Hunt again. “Not as old as you.” Bryce gave the male a half smile. “Nice to meet you.” Tharion’s light brown eyes glittered. “The pleasure, Bryce, is all mine.” Tharion is such a a flirt and I love it. I need more Tharion Ketos <33 AND THEN AIDAS. omg do you know how much it killed me after seeing how much the fandom loved him and then me finding out that he only appears once??? what. the. hell. So not fair😭 yet with that one appearance, I already love him. Not as much as Tharion, Ruhn, and Declan of course, but still ahhh he's such an interesting demon kitty. And I love demon kitties. ═══°∴,*⋅✲══〖☪〗═══✲⋅*,∴°════ 🛑MAJOR SPOILERS BELOW🛑 I actually thought something was wrong with me when I had a hundred pages left, and I still hadn't cried at all . Like there were some emotional scenes and I got teary-eyed, but no actual sob-fest. And especially after hearing from literally everyone I know that CC destroyed them, I was so confused?? *nervous laughter* little did I know that those last hundred pages would indeed break me. "We were supposed to do this together. We were supposed to live out our lives together" Danika being there for Bryce while she made the Drop ohmygod I was sobbing. The "Light it up" scene—I swear I wanted to die. And it was also 2am in the morning when I was reading this sooo💀 Also I'll never forget how shocked everyone, but especially Sandriel, was when Bryce just casually vacuumed up the ashes of Micah. Best scene by far. Along with Hunt ripping off Sandriel's head, of course.😌 Then Lele sacrificing herself in order to give Bryce enough time to be able to kill Micah- THAT ONE LINE. I SEE WHAT YOU DID SARAH😭😭 "My friends are with me and I am not afraid" the exact line is I will not be afraid sdfdsfs but close enough *sobs* Sam Okay and finding out that Bryce was so close to jumping at one point after Danika's death ohmygod that hurt so much and Juniper being there for Bryce before she did--I can't deal with all of that😭 I keep saying certain scenes are my favourite BUT THIS SERIOUSLY IS MY FAVOURITE TOO. Declan, aka the love of my life, hacking into all the cameras & calls and livestreaming everything was amazing omg. Micah being exposed was the best part--or wait, everyone hearing Ember Quinlan act all smug towards the Autumn King, while he raged might've been the best. hmmm the struggles ahhh everything was perfect ohmygod I love you Declan. OMG and the part where Bryce wrote back to Connor after having the thread saved for 2 years.😭😭 And Bryce seeing the pack towards the end omg omg I'm going to start crying again. Bryce’s eyes stung as she smiled softly, then read through Connor’s last words to her. "Message me when you’re home safe." Bryce began typing. The answer it had taken her two years, nearly to the day, to write. "I’m home." There was one scene where I probably shouldn't have been laughing and instead crying, but I couldn't help it. Hunt trying to bring Bryce back to life and what he said- “I heard what you said." Pump, pump, pump went his powerful arms. "What you waited to admit until I was almost dead, you fucking coward." His lightening surged into her, sending her body arcing off the ground as he tried to jump-start her heart. He snarled in her ear, "Now come say it to my face.” I love these two so much ohmygod I'm not going to bother saying that I hope they're endgame, because I know they are. There's no way after everything that's happened that Sarah would just ruin all of that in the next book, especially because Hunt and Bryce's relationship is like Rowaelin and Feysand. Both accepted everything about the other and didn't shy away from it. The only reason I could imagine that they wouldn't be endgame is if Sarah kills off Hunt- yea no, forget I even said that. Sarah wouldn't dare🙂🔪🔪🔪 🛑SPOILERS HAVE ENDED🛑 ═══°∴,*⋅✲══〖☪〗═══✲⋅*,∴°════ So as you can tell, Sarah has once again destroyed me beyond recognition and I honestly think I'm going to slowly wither away waiting for CC2. At least let there be a release date. PLEASE??? *sobbing* I'm not joking when I said I curse all of you. I'll have my revenge one day :) Now you see, usually I'm all for recommending masterpieces, but for this...hell no. If you value your sanity, then you will not read HOEAB right now. If you value your sanity, you'll wait until there's at least a release date for CC2. If you value your sanity, you'll wait until CC2 itself is released. But if you have no self-control and/or think sanity is overrated like me, then go on ahead. I wish you all the luck in the world because you'll soon regret that decision. "Through love, all is possible." Will my love for Declan Emmet have the release date for CC2 be revealed faster??? ═══°∴,*⋅✲══〖☪〗═══✲⋅*,∴°════ honorable mention: thank you krizzie, el, and mashie for listening to my screaming, fangirling, and terrible theories!! I still curse you three the most tho <33 ik, what an honor ═══°∴,*⋅✲══〖☪〗═══✲⋅*,∴°════ Pre-read Review: im finallyyy reading this sdfsds so excited AHHHH i cant wait for my heart to break!!

3rd read: sarah janet has done it again... she's broken my heart. sky and breath canNOT come soon enough!

“What brings loyalty beyond death, undimming despite the years. What remains unwavering in the face of hopelessness." ...Through love, all is possible.” “You’re the person I don’t need to explain myself to – not when it matters. You see everything I am, and you don’t run away from it." “Loyal unto death and beyond” First. Let me just tell y'all. This review is totally unhinged and all over the place - kinda like the plot of this book. The first time I read this book I was so so shook and had tears streaming down my face at my work desk. I audibly gasped and could not hold in the pain and anguish that this book branded me with. ╰┈➤ In true SJM fashion you get down to that last 20% and you had better buckle up. I was. not. prepared. This time, I was ready for what was to come but it was no less impactful. Literally screaming in pain into my pillow during some of the events that take place. I know this book is not new to many but I do want to just point out for some people that have yet to read it that this series is different than other SJM series in the fact that it's more Urban Fantasy. Meaning, we are not with horses, swords and sorcery in this. We are in a future time and there's cars, cell phones and buildings as we know them today. Normally this is not my cuppa right? Right. I know I'm not alone in this opinion. I just don't really dig Urban Fantasy but THIS BOOK. This book does it right and I love it so much. So if that's what may be holding you back from picking it up, please don't let it discourage you and take the jump - or do the drop. Lol. Iykyk. It's totally worth it. ╰┈➤ For this book, we follow the story of Bryce Quinlan she is a half-fae half-human person. She and her best friend Danika had been best friends for a really long time until one day she finds Danika dead along with most of her friends. Two years later, Bryce is still dealing with grief and gets tasked with helping to find the murderer of her friend among other things. For this, she gets assigned a companion to protect her from demons that have started randomly attacking people. Throughout the story, Hunt becomes more than her guarding angel and stops being a pain in her ass. But little does she knows that she really didn’t know anything about what happened two years ago and what she finds out is enough to make her question everything. Bryce, had been through so much. After losing her friend, she went on a dark path. She stopped dancing, she stopped living. However, when she gets tasked with figuring out the true reason for her friends’ murder, she vows to find who killed her and get revenge. And oh she does. Break out the hooover ladies and gents! One of the most epic scenes ever! I mean, to die for. She's so fierce and loyal and refused to ever give up. ╰┈➤ This series really starts out so different than the usual SJM book- we are presented with a murder mystery from the very beginning and trying to solve it. There's also sooo many characters because of how vast this world is. It can be a lot to take it , but just breath and keep going... I promise it's all so worth it. Bryce is top notch. I love her like I love Nesta and Manon. She is a fierce warrior. Total badass. There is so much involved in this plot and so many characters that I can't even do it justice because I'll be all over the place in the review. I need a diagram with a wand in my hand to point out what I'm talking about. Be prepared to maybe need to take notes lol. It's a lot but damn so so good. Let me also just say that for whatever reason the MMC's in SJM's books are never my main squeeze. Now, don't get me wrong... all of the men and women are seriously hot and badass so it can be a really hard choice lol. For me though, I have always seemed to love the 'second' man in her books and 'second' woman. For example- in ToG I'm a Dorian lover/Manon lover. Hands down, hands down, hands mother fucking downnnn. ACOTAR is Cassian and Nesta for me because they give me life. I do love Rhys, don't get me wrong but Cassian is just yum. This book is no exception to the rule. I'm unequivocally in love with Ruhn. Hunt is amazing but Ruhn is everything. ╰┈➤ Speaking of romance in this book - dare I say that it's probably the healthiest relationship in the SJM verse? Hunt is amazing. Make no mistake, I clearly am a Ruhn lover but don't let that fool you that Hunt is any less amazing than the gold standard for husband material. He is damn near perfect and the fact that he deals with the whole Jelly Jubilee obsession is so cute. Can't wait to reread book 2 and so excited for book 3 to come in January! “The universe is massive. Some believe it has no end. Or that our universe might be one in a multitude, as bountiful as the stars in the sky or the sand on a beach.”

OUT OF FIVE RATING: Easily a 5 star read PLOT: 3 CHARACTERS: 5 WORLD BUILDING: 5 TWIST: 4 ROMANCE: 5 “That's the point of it, Bryce. Of life. To live, to love, knowing that it might all vanish tomorrow. It makes everything that much more precious.” Mind.Blown.Literarily! If you haven't read this yet then we might have a problem because this is an absolute masterpiece! HOW I WENT FROM AN SJM HATER TO AN SJM FAN: A TESTIMONY Let me tell you a story, Once upon a time, I read Throne of Glass. It was the very first Sarah J Maas book I'd ever read. The characters felt a bit flat and bland to me and the plot was inconsistent. In summary, I hated it. I hated it so much that I wanted to tear it into pieces and throw it into the Red sea!! However, a few months ago I met House of Earth and Blood. Another book from SJM, let's just say I was the definition of reluctant. If anything I intended on just adding it to my tbr and keeping it there till I died. PLOT TWIST, I picked it up because my Goodreads friends are amazing and Krizzie in particular hyped this up for me and I can't say not to my queen. LADIES AND GENTLEMEN!!! Despite the slow plot and intense hatred I used to have for SJM, I READ THIS BOOK! And dare I say, I loved every second of it! If you had told me two months ago that'll I'll enjoy this, I'd have scoffed at you and called you delusional because what good can come out from SJM? NOW, I am a bonafide SJM fan, a very hardcore one and this book, yes the one you're staring at. It changed my life for good Here is why: “Through love, all is possible.” I remember seeing reviews with the quote and thinking "cheesy" and if you're thinking the same; NO❤ This book is a lot of things, MAGNIFICENT, BEAUTIFUL, HEART BREAKING, BREATH TAKING, ADRENALINE INDUCING(I'M SURE YOU GET THE IDEA) but its definitely not cheesy. In fact, it has a serious plot, great world building(maybe a bit too great), amazing characters and a lovely romance. “Memento Mori. Remember that you will die.” Now let's talk about that plot. The plot follows Bryce Quinlan, an ordinary half-breed who lives in Crescent City and constantly struggles with degradation from society because of who she is, a half breed. She is a total party animal and is real goofy as well. She loses herself in drugs and sex and She also works as a sorceress’s assistant and well, she's living the dream and riding the stars with her youthful lifestyle. I mean, what will you do when your biological Fae dad deserts you because of who you are?? Or when you can't even walk with your half brother in public because you might jeopardize his reputation?? Everything is going fine until disaster strucks! Danika, her bestfriend and the rest of her pack which includes Conner whom she has been secretly eyeing for some time get murdered and no its not an easy swift killing. Its bloody and messy and Bryce is heart broken! She's 50 shades of fucked up and her life becomes shit after that! She can't seem to get over their killing and the fact that the perpetrators haven't been caught yet. Fast-forward two years later and the murders are occurring again, in the same gods damned manner!! That was what broke the Camel's back as investigations begin again and Together with Hunt Athalar(who was assigned to her), they go all out and try to solve the mystery. Who killed Danika?? Who is committing these murders?? What's their motive?? Yes, I'll admit it. The plot too a bit long to pick up as there were lots of info dump. I almost dnf it after the first 100 pages seemed liked bullshit to me but I tell you, If you can get past the info dump YOU WILL LOVE EVERY OTHER MOMENT!! When the plot picks up, eventually, it gets really fast paced and the mystery gets even more intriguing! I kid you not, this book will completely shatter you and render you numb for a few hours. The world building was great. It was really good and part of the reasons why the book took so long to pick up. I believe the info dumps were necessary though, as it made me understand the hierarchies of the creatures and Crescent City itself a bit better. The characters are my favorite part of the book, gotta give it to SJM, she really knows how to write memorable characters Bryce Quinlan: Everybody sees her as a party girl and maybe she is but then no one really understands her except Danika. She's the kind of person that hides her true self from the world and lets the world think whatever they want to because she couldn't care any less. She's basically the definition of kickass and she's not afraid to call out "alphaholes" on their shit! The death of Danika hit her really hard and the grief she passed through was just so much. It was obvious that their friendship was really important and the love they had for each other was immense. In summary, they are best friend goals. “But she was the one person I could be myself around and never feel judged. The one person that I knew would always pick up the phone, or call me back. She was the one person who made me feel brave because no matter what happened, no matter how bad or embarrassing or shitty it was, I knew that I had her in my corner. That if it all went to Hel, I could talk to her and it would be fine. I didn't like her at first because she seemed a bit naïve and simple but her development throughout the book was great. She began to stand up for herself and well, she showed great qualities that justified that ending. I saw her go from mourner to vengeance queen and I loved it! Hunt Athalar: Hunt is just like Bryce. An angel with flaws, a slave, a grieving lover but still ever ready to serve his master. He was quite reluctant to work with Bryce because of her reputation but when he got to see the real Bryce, their friendship blossomed. Hunt is a fallen Angel, after partaking in a rebellion that didn’t quite go as planned and losing his high status for that of a slave he became real downcast and then came the death of the woman he loved. All these he tried to hide behind a mask. He made the whole world see him as an Angel to be feared and a male who is completely heartless when in reality He just wanted a chance to be himself and live his life a free Angel. His boss, Archangel Micah makes him murder people. Yes actually kill for his freedom. It seems pointless to me because I could see that no matter how many creatures Hunt killed, Micah would still want him under him as a slave. I love Hunt so much and most of the time I felt like hugging him and telling him everything will be alright but will it?? Will it really?? “There are worse fates than death, you know.” Danika: I believe she deserves a bit of introduction in my review because she’s an amazing person and her friendship with Bryce is very vital in this book. The mystery literarily lies on the amount of faith, trust and love for each other and I loved it too. “Through love, all is possible.” Why am I repeating this quote you may say. Nothing but quick advice, Nothing is always as it appears especially not in this book. THINGS I LIKED IN THIS BOOK 1. I loved the mystery. It was so gripping and it had me hooked. I was always guessing what the outcome would be and all my guesses were wrong. As much as I want to say that I saw the ending coming I really didn’t. It had me shook. I’m pretty sure no one could have seen that coming. The amount of FoReshADowinG in this book is just très magnifique 2. I loved the romance. The eventual romance between Hunt and Bryce was astounding to be honest. It was slow burn and that alone screams quality and it was also enemies-to-lovers which is both frustrating and breath takingly beautiful. This romance broke me as it was way too good. The execution of everything was top notch. I mean it was enemies to friends to tell a few secrets friend and then to lovers. I have to say, SJM really outdid herself in this one and I could see that she took her time to do it and for that a round of applause please… “You're the person I don't need to explain myself to - not when it matters. You see everything I am, and you don't run away from it.” 3. I also loved the smut. It was not too much but it was enough, for a new adult novel the scenes were really good! It wasn't so much that I'd be traumatized or too little that I'd be underwhelmed so I liked it. 4. I loved the side characters. Be it Syrinx or Lehabah, I loved them all. In this book, it’s the little things like these characters that really make the difference, the sacrifices they make, the joy they bring, all those little things they bring to the table makes them astounding in their own little way. “Then let the world know that my first act of freedom was to help my friends.” Just a side character, just a fire sprite, just Lehabah and yet she gives the best hero vibes. 5. I also love the diversity of this book as well as the lgbt representation. In summary, I loved this book. It basically preaches do not judge and well, that love makes all possible and for some reason I believe it! A big thank you to Krizzie and Lucie for making me read this because it was so worth it. Pre-review thoughts So, apparently Bryce is supposed to look like this. My heart is currently on simp mode Uhmm ok, The plot is picking up, I'm starting to like the mystery itself. hmmm, fun times! *************************************** So I just heard this is actually really good, so.... I'm reading it!!!! Yes, I've downloaded it already Yes, I'll read 803 pages...

“That's the point of it, Bryce. Of life. To live, to love, knowing that it might all vanish tomorrow. It makes everything that much more precious.”. “You're the person I don't need to explain myself to - not when it matters. You see everything I am, and you don't run away from it.” THIS BOOK.. Everyone read it. ITS JUST SO GOOD. MY NEW FAVORITE. The slowburn , the mental health rep , the importance of friendship. I can’t. House of earth and blood aka crescent city is the first book in Sarah J. Maas her urban fantasy adult series called crescent city. The story is taking place in the city crescent city in a world where humans live among magical creatures that are all in one of the 4 houses ruled by some sort of group[ of gods. We have the house of earth and blood that are the shifters , the ordinary humans , witches and animals. Then we have the house of sky and breath that contains angels and fae. We also have the house of many waters that contains river spirits and mer and last of all the house of flame and shadow which contains de vampires m dragons and more wicked things. The story follows our main character Bryce Quinlan a half human half fae that lives and works in crescent city. It seems like she lives an ordinary life and is a huge party girl with her best friend Danika , who is one of the strongest wolves. But nothing is as it seems as Danika and her pack get killed in Bryce her apartment one day and everything in Bryce her life becomes a piece of shit. Then two years later murders are happening again , the same way that Danika and her pack where killed. Bryce gets assigned to solve this murder along with Archangel Hunt Athalar. A centuries old angel that has fought in war and rebelled against his kind and is now a slave in the possession of angel Micah the one that rules crescent city. And then many things happen and we have this freaking brilliant book that I wanna throw in everyone’s face and make them read it so yes if you haven’t read this brilliant emotional destroying masterpiece right now. That’s an order hehe. Why is this book so good ?! krista her explenation - Crescent city is such a masterpiece. This book is just so good. One of the best things of it and the thing I need to talk about right now first of all is the charracters. Sarah J. Maas is just the queen of charracters and this book proves that again in such a strong way. The main charracters Bryce aka my babe. She is so well worked out. Bryce seems like a part girl who doesn’t care abut anything serious but this story really shows us that not everybody is the way they seem inside. Sometimes people pretend to be something that they are not. Bryce always struggled with her life and emotions because she never felt like she truly belonged anywhere and she didn’t know what to do with her life. Then Danika her death happens + the rest of the pack and she is dealing with a lot of grieve. The way that Sarah explores the raw version of grief of losing someone you love is done so good and is so important. Bryce not only deals with grieve but also with depression and depressed feelings. Feeling empty , panic attacks because the trauma with the death of the pack that she experienced. Its is all so raw but so true and so many of her struggels hit me so close to home. As the story goes one we see her story of slowly healing , slowly accepting the death of the people she loves and how she faces the fact that it is okay to be happy again and that being happy again and feeling good things and not only pain doesn’t mean that she forgot about her loved ones. This process is done so freaking well and is so important and this journey of her charracters is just ugh. I love it. + Bryce is a total badass and she is so sassy. The other charracters are all also so good and all have their own struggels as well. Hunt has a rep of self harm in his character. Every time he killed people that he has to keel because of a contract he made with his boss to be free and not a slave anymore he goes in to the shower afterward and turns up the heat so high that he burns and then heals and then burns again. He also struggels with feeling alive again and experiencing true happiness in his life. And just it is so important that reps like this are in a story I love it so much. It shows us life and gives a story so much more depth. It is way better then charracters that experience something and then being sad for a day and then oh I am done I am going to get revenge bye. This is how it works in life , people struggle. Also hunt is such a cutie who is this killer angel but loved watching football games and reality tv and loves playing with animals so yes actually he is just a cinnamon roll <3 protect them both at all costs. The third main character in this book is Ruhn , Bryce his half brother who is the son of the king of autumn ruler of the fae. The story also has tons of great side charracters that struggle and have banter and are all just great. Then worldbuilding. the world is an urban fantasy world with all kinds of creatures and I love it. I always love urban fantasy a lot and Sarah just did this world so great. I saw a lot of people saying that there was a lot of info dump but for me it did not feel that way. I enjoyed this book from the very first page and learning about the world was so interesting and didn’t feel just info dumping for me. Then the plot. The plot is really charracters focused as I mentions in my talk about the charracters. But also friendship is a really important topic and plot in this book , the friend ship between Danika and Bryce. It is so beautiful to see a female/female friendship portrayed this way. & then we also have the brother sister relationship between Bryce and Ruhn which is also important and complicated. The plot also has tons of action and follows a murder investigation which I also loved. I loved all the twist that came with it and some of them had me being a total freaking wreck because AAAAH. Sarah is the queen of torture. But guessing how these murders where done etc. was so fascinating and fun so everything combined the plot was so good and the perfect mix with good elements. Oh and did I mention THE TWISTST. “Through love, all is possible.” Then the romance. I freaking love the romance. I love Bryce and Hunt. Sarah better make them endgame or I am going to her house and demand her to make them endgame. Their story is just <3 perfect. They start of as enemies but then develop a friendship and then they develop stronger romantic deeper feelings for each other. They are the perfect slow burn. They have amazing banter and they aren’t afraid to speak their opinions against each other which is hilarious. But most importantly they are there for each other and help each other heal and deal with things and that is beautiful. Honestly protect them at all cost please. Otherwise I wont survive this life. Also great smut as always of queen Sarah and definitely not too much smut. Overall this book is the perfect combination of charracters that struggle , friendship , relationships and a mysterious murderous plot in a great urban fantasy worldbuilding with lots of twist and turns. I recommend 10.10 this book owns my soul, Sarah owns my soul. Spoiler part , scenes&details that I loved and just have to mention -Syrinx and lebabah. The love Bryce has for them , lebabah basically watching porn. And the scene the fucking twist. Lebabah sacrificing herself for her friends. I cried my eye balls out and still do. I cant. These cinnamon rolls own my heart. -Bryce making the drop that whole scene is so intense holly hell. And Danika being there and their conversation <3 I crie d my eyeballs out again. -The scene in the shower is my favorite scene ever. Bryce being there for hunt , taking care of him after he murdered and feels terrible <3 -Hunt and Bryce watching reality shows together lmao. -Jelly jubilee.True icon.Period. I laughed my eyeballs out. Yes that can happen to. My eyeballs went everywhere during this book This book just means somuch to me. And owns my heart. I also feel like if you don’t like Sarah j Maas her other books you should give this a try it is a bit different :) and if you love Sarah her other books you will definitly love this. Bye Krizzie out now , sobbing waiting for the next one “Message me when you're home safe." Bryce began typing. The answer it had taken her two years, nearly to the day, to write. "I'm home.”

"LIGHT IT UP, DANIKA! LIGHT IT UP, LIGHT IT UP, LIGHT IT UP!" Umm I am no longer emotionally stable

Second Read: 6⭐ First Read: 6⭐ - - - - - 5 stars 6 star This still has a chokehold on me months later. "Through love all is possible." Not to be dramatic in the slightest but I think this book changed my life. Never have I ever been so connected to characters and plot in a book. I didn't find the worldbuilding hard, and I wouldn't change a single aspect of this book if I had the chance. I cried, laughed, and lost it at plot twists but I wouldn't have it any other way. Bryce and Hunt have my heart, this is my favorite SJM book to date. Can't wait for Noi to finish so we can start book two💕 -- Buddy Read with Noi 💕 If no one hears from me this brick of a book killed me with its info dumps 😅🫡

Third reread and I still end up with a wet face with how powerful this book is. I am so worried about the next book because Maas book 2s are always earth shattering, UGH. RUIN ME, SJM. - - - - I’ve never felt more seen with my mental health than in this book. I know not everyone deals with their depression the same, but this... this was it for me. I’ve read a lot of books that portray depression, but this is the one that hit home for me. And also lots of magic. Lots and lots of magic.

wow! In all honesty, this was more like a four star book to me, because I don't think I will ever re-read it, but I gave it five stars because anything else would feel wrong. It was a wild ride, and it was worth every minute. There are so many hints and clues along the storyline, so many great characters (and so many characters yet to be explored), and that epilogue guys!! I could write an essay about the plot, the characters, what I liked and disliked, but I'll spare you from my rambling and just say; I can wholeheartedly recommend this to fantasy fans. I see a lot of people commenting that the book is long and slow paced, so just to get it out of the way; Yes. The book is long, and the first part is super informative. It seems like Sarah chose to include every fantasy creature there is in the same universe, and at first I struggled to grasp everything. But there were not a single moment where I was bored, or wanted to put the book down. Another thing; if you disliked the writing in 'Throne of Glass' and 'ACOTAR' where people act and sound like animals half the time with all the purring and snarling, and refer to each other as males and females instead of man and woman, chances are you won't like the writing in House of Earth and Blood either, because there is no doubt who the author of this book is. Which means if you're a fan of Sarah's previous books, chances are you'll like this series as well. As apposed to 'Throne of Glass' and 'ACOTAR' this is labeled new adult, but the only difference is that she actually allows herself to curse in this book instead of using "child-friendly" words.. One thing is for sure though, I'm really looking forward to the next book, and Crescent City has definitely the potential of becoming my new obsession! Thank you, Sarah J. Maas.

This is why I love reading

"Through love, all is possible." Spice: 🌶️,5 Sarah J Maas is one of those authors who hate their readers so much that they make them cry within the first sixty to seventy pages of her book. Then make them cry again several more times by the end of the book. I can just picture her at home laughing with satan and drinking tea made from our tears. I am in unspeakable pain...and I need book two now! Also, the climax of this book is one of the most dumbfounding and epic ones I have ever read. Bryce's use of the vacuum is truly awe-inspiring. I lowkey wish I could do that someday. Aside from all the pain, the story is amazing, I especially love the lore and how it expands beyond just fae or fae-like creatures. I hope Maas writes more stories from this world. I would love to read about the other houses. Nevertheless, as fantastic as this book is and as amazing as the writing is, I feel like Sarah could have picked better words for alpha-hole and asp-hole. I mean, she could have just said asshole. There's no need to get creative, its beauty is in its simplicity. Moreover, I would really love it if Bryce Quinlar could split my spine in half or whatever they be doing. She's such a wonderful, passionate, and caring badass. She is also one of the few characters I got to read about who has suffered from severe depression and suicidal thoughts. She has been through some horrible thing, from the beginning of the book until its ending, just like most SJM characters (because she hates them too). I especially love how she manages to come out on top in the end. She heals, finds happiness, and is finally vindicated after being shunned and hated for so long. Well...we all know that's not going to last for long, this is Sarah's creation after all, but it's a nice reprieve. Furthermore, Hunt Athalar is the standard issued winges love interest found in all of Sarah's books, one way or another. Obviously, the woman knows what she's doing since I'm once again a total simp for her main guy. Those mating/endgame vibes are strong with this one, thankfully. If this turns into a Tamlin situation I swear I will lose my shit. I didn't like Tamlin that much when I read about him, though. Besides, Hunt's life is actually even sadder than Bryce's. He's been suffering for the better part of it, fell in love with a woman who was basically using him for her ends, then was enslaved because of it, and was relentlessly tortured for the better part of his enslavement. Yeah, definitely endgame vibes. It's always the most tortured ones who get the girl. What's more, I obviously love Bryce and Hunt. I love their dislike-to-lovers (which is enemies-to-lovers basically), their sexy, tension-filled banter, and their desperate need to bone each other, even though they keep getting interrupted somehow. This whole book is Sarah teasing us with all the Bryce x Hunt possibilities, again because she wants us to suffer but differently this time. There are so many hormones bouncing off between those two I wonder how I didn't faint while reading it. No matter what anyone says, they are endgame. I have commanded it and it shall be the true. Period. The other man of my dreams, created by Sarah herself, is Rhun. He is Bryce's adorably protective brother, although he is a total asshole...or alpha-hole (cringe) to her for a while. He is tatted, pierced, and badass. Need I say more? I will. He is loyal and has a shitty dad. I hope someone kills that guy soon, by the way. He's giving Lucien's dad and it's pissing me off. I need more of him too in the next book. Finally, all the secondary characters are just as wonderful and amazing as the main ones. Declan and Flynn are as adorable as they are hot. I love how loyal they are to Rhun and that they see Bryce as their little sister too. They even bond with Hunt a little bit. Juniper and Fury are also great, although I'm still pissed at Fury for ghosting Bryce, right when she needed her friends most. She did make things right, I guess, but I still haven't forgiven her completely. None of the above, however, compares to the two most amazing, wonderful, adorable characters in the whole book. Lehabah and Syrynx own my heart. They are the sweetest fantastical creatures and I want my own. There are even otters that work as messengers that I've been obsessing over since I first read about them. I want one of those, too. Alas, life is unfair...and boring as fuck. At least we still have cats and dogs.

My spoiler-free reading vlog reading Crescent City 1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5IYGU... This is my FIRST Sarah J. Maas book EVER!! I LOVED IT! I wasn't entirely sure what to expect going into this, but by the end, I was hooked! Sarah J. Maas has painted a rather pretty world in Crescent City, a town filled with various supernatural creatures, where a shocking and brutal murder shocks everyone. It really is Jessica Jones meets True Blood. You'd think it would fall into the usual crime/mystery supernatural buddy-cop kind of book, but it manages, at least for me, to be such an addictive and entertaining read, despite the blending of various waning formulas. Bryce, our heroine, is a force to be reckoned with as the story progresses. I wasn't sure how to feel about her to begin with but by the end, you really can't help falling in love with her. And then there's Hunt - the brooding guy we all like to roll our eyes at but secretly he makes our knees weak. I'm not being secret about it - I love him, and he's GORGEOUS. Maas knows how to write herself a muscular man. At times, the characters are problematic, but it's hard not to root for them by novel's end. The plot is very fast-paced. A big event happens pretty early on and it's what propels the story forward. There are so many twists and turns that I thought I had things figured out, but then a few chapters later, there's a curveball. By the end, I'd been on a rollercoaster. It threw me around so much, but I was loving the ride. All in all, very glad I read this, and thank you so much Bloomsbury for sending me an ARC of this. Can't wait for book 2 now!

5 stars! "Then Bryce was laughing and sobbing as she screamed, "LIGHT IT UP, DANIKA! LIGHT IT UP, LIGHT IT UP, LIGHT IT UP!" I loved that scene so much that it literally brought me to tears. Sarah J. Maas is literally a brilliant fucking author because there is no way she just made me so hooked in an 800 paged book. I literally inhaled this book and the pace that i was reading this in, her writing was so accessible and made me fall in love harder this time around and the first bits that i found hard to enjoy the first time i read it were so much easier this time. I have to say the world, plot and characters that she has crafted are so unique and the life that she gave them is so serene and beautiful. I can come back to this story again and again and will read it like im reading it for the first time. “What blinds an oracle, Bryce Quinlan?” The plot. I actually when i first read this did not know what she would write about as it is a urban fantasy and i barley read them. At first I thought it was just a basic murder mystery but I knew Sarah had something big she would unravel but even the murder mystery aspect of the plot was so well written and i was so hooked and in love with it that im pretty sure if the last hundred pages didnt happen this book would have still been a five stars for me. The last hundred pages had me hyperventilating because there was so much unraveling and so many twist and turns that i did not see coming and even now when i reread it there were still some twists that i forgot and they shocked me so bad. I loved it! “I promised Fury not to do anything stupid,” Bryce said, her eyes on Syrinx’s branded-out tattoo. “I didn’t say I wouldn’t do anything smart.” Bryce was such a unique character. I rarely read about FMCs who are also party girls but struck with a strategy so immense that she almost cuts everything off and her secrets were also something that drew me closer to her. I loved how Sarah dealt with her grief and her trauma and how the whole healing process went. She was snarky and witty and her comebacks were just so awesome. She had such a fun vibe to her and I actually found myself longing to read more of her perspective. That ascending scene will forever be one of my favorites. “You're the person I don't need to explain myself to - not when it matters. You see everything I am, and you don't run away from it.” Hunt. I dont know why he is so hated, I love him with all my hearts and he deserves everything. He was strong, loyal and broody and his dynamic mixed with Bryce's was so fun. I loved every aspect of his past which also led to me falling for Hunt all over again. The end scene where everyones watching bryce and their reactions is definitely my second favorite scene from this book hands down. “I am a descendant of Ranthia Drahl, Queen of Embers. She is with me now and I am not afraid. My friends are behind me, and I will protect them.” The side characters. Ruhn Danaan the way i would fold for this man. He is so ethereal like his presence is a sight to behold (im just too deep in love with him) tbh we didnt get much of ruhn in this book but the conflict between him and bryce that we got was actually very fun to read. . Danika was so important to the plot she had so many secrets sand im pretty sure more that will be uncovered but I loved her love for Bryce because everything that she did was for bryce and i found their friendship to be so fresh and so real. It was literally a friendship where i laughed and cried with them also felt frustrated and heartbroken. Danikas character did not disappoint. . Lehabah and Aidas. Lehabah was such acute cinnamon roll she wanted to be free so bad and when she finally did...i dont want to spoil but i hate sarah as for Aidas i am very excited to see more scenes from him because the scenes that we got were so damn interesting. Especially the Jesiba + Aidas epilogue. “Through love, all is possible.” The romance. AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHH the slow burn here was so real??? after acosf i thought this would be spicy ASF but it actually was not.. there was barely any spice. Hunt and Bryce make such a good couple. I know they are mates and that they are endgame I cant wait to read more about them. What I loved about the romance particularly was how Hunt brought Bryce back from such a dark part and how much he contributed for her healing and how much Hunt felt good and happy in Bryce's presence. It was just so damn good! “Memento Mori. Remember that you will die.” The worldbuilding was so amazing. This was actually a little bit heavy on the word building and set up the foundation for it. I loved every moment of it.. especially how immersive and well crafted it was. ~~~ 10 DAYS UNTIL HOFAS I NEED MMY BABIES QUINLAR AND DAY & NIGHT TO MAKE ME HAPPY AGAIN!

4.75 stars So I absolutely couldn't put this down! This was Action-packed, addictive and an intriguing start to a series! Maas has definitely ramped up the World-building in this instalment, especially compared to her previous series. It felt a bit dense initially, but overall very interesting, and once you get into it you just want to know more! I look forward to discovering more later in the series. While I wasn't as big on Bryce and Hunt as some of the other characters, I still loved this overall! Romance aspect felt a bit cliché, but still enjoyable. I look forward to seeing more of Ruhn and Hypaxia particularly in the next book! (view spoiler) Full review to come!

REREAD REVIEW: I cried even harder, I felt less pain at the betrayal, and I felt more love for everyone. Reading over a year later as I wait for book 2, I find myself loving this book, Crescent City, and these characters even more. Thank you, SJM, for this gem of literary work. May I someday impact readers in the way you impacted me with this novel? JJ is still the best, and I laughed even harder at the clothes quote. 10 Stars April 2020: Initial review: I have a MAJOR book hangover right now. House of Earth and Blood literally made me burst out laughing in the dark, reading in my bed alone at least twice. It also made me cry a couple of times in those last hundred pages. Sarah J. Maas is phenomenal at storytelling. I become so immersed while reading that I can't even pay attention to mechanics. I fangirl her SO hard. This is SJM's first adult geared novel, but if you have ever read any of her young adult series (Throne of Glass, A Court of Thorns and Roses), which she is still actively writing by the way, then you will know that sexual tension is not new to her. I LOVED the world-building—some VERY shocking twists. There is always a bit of a slow start with SJM's world-building, but it will carry throughout the series. Get sucked into her wondrous new series now! All the stars! I want to speed up time to read the next book NOW! The mass has become one of my all-time favorite authors over the years. From her world-building to the emotional connection I feel with her characters, I applaud her true gift as an author to the crazy rides she takes me on. I applaud her true talent as an author. Two of my favorite quotes that made me burst out loud: "I didn't know clothing sales got you so hot and bothered, Quinlan." "It's the little things in life, Athalar." "Is that what you think about when you open up that left nightstand? Clothing sales?" He faced her fully now. She didn't dare let her gaze drop. "Yes," she breathed. "All those clothes, all over my body." She had no idea what the fuck was coming out of her mouth." "Didn't you know, Athalar?" The tentative hope in his face nearly destroyed her. "We've been friends from the moment you thought Jelly Jubilee was a dildo." 5+ Stars for me.

WOW. Whether you’re a Maas fan already, totally new to her writing or just looking for an incredible fantasy to totally entrap you then this is the book for you. The first book in a new adult fantasy series will have you pining for the next! This was a book that I simply could not put down and couldn’t stop thinking about when I wasn’t reading it. It exceeded every possible expectation and is the best fantasy I have ever read. House of Earth and Blood is a captivating fantasy; an incredibly constructed world of politics, social hierarchy , magic and supernatural creatures of all matter. This is a book that has a wild variety of themes each equally important and portrayed realistically throughout a variety of characters. Dealing with loss, heartbreak, grief and addiction; Maas dives into each mainly through our main character Bryce Quinlan, showing the difficulties of dealing with past traumas and overcoming things you never thought possible. The different relationships in this book are key factors throughout that make it all the more compelling and the characters all the more loveable. Friendship is a key protagonist in its own right; pushing our main character Bryce through a world of pain, danger and sinister plots. Strong powerful friendships become so endearing in this book giving it a whole new level of depth and great emotional impact. As with all of Maas’ books she has a way of making her protagonists instantly likeable using their addictive personalities and that is exactly what she did with our protagonist here. Bryce Quinlan is a very complex character. The further into the story you get, the more layers seem to fall back revealing ugly truths and a girl who isn’t anything like how she is perceived to be. On the outside she is a party loving girl full of vanity and disregard for anything but herself. However, we soon come to learn that Bryce is a lot more than she seems and in fact, a strong willed character driven by love, friendship and loyalty. Our main side character Hunt Athalar, a fallen angel known as the ‘Umbra Mortis’ (translates to the Shadow of Death) is another well written character by Maas who has demons of his own that come into play; making the importance of his character all that more impactful. The romance element in this book isn’t quite enemies to lovers, but definitely isn’t love at first sight. An initial attraction yet hilarious dislike for one another becomes a slow burn romance with intense chemistry that I couldn’t turn the pages fast enough for. Pacing in this book is an element that made it a complete success. The size of the book may seem very daunting and I had my concerns certain parts might drag and leave me bored, but that never happened at any point. Maas’ captivating writing and good subplots made sure that each page was as entertaining as the last; insuring the pace left no room for boredom and only an insane need to know more. Plot twists in this book are happening from beginning to end and each chapter will have you wanting more and constantly guessing. Maas writes in such a way that the plot is unpredictable; insignificant details later become significant binding everything together to become one giant plot that will leave you wholly SHOOK. This book will have you smiling from ear to ear, gasping in shock, laughing out loud and sobbing into its pages. Mystery, romance, friendship, action and revenge whisked together to become the perfect recipe to produce an outstanding five star fantasy book. A total masterpiece deserving to be read by all fantasy book lovers. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

This was a great read! There was not a dull moment in the whole book. Nate and Geronimo are after Axel Soledad. Axel has a mixed group of people he has trained for nefarious reasons. Agent Orr is after Nate and Geronimo. And if that is not enough you have Joe Pickett wandering into a hornet’s nest while trying to find Governor Rulon’s son in law and his Guide. No one in administration is offering help. Pickett’s only support is Kany, the local game warden. Mary Beth are Sheridan are holding the fort down at home, dealing with their on unique challenges that have popped up. Put all this volatile action together guarantees and explosive ending. This is the book to read if you want a fast paced good read. Enjoy the ride on the roller coaster of excitement.

BATTLE MOUNTAIN is the 25th book in Author C.J. Box's epic Joe Pickett series featuring Wyoming Game Warden Joe Pickett. Each book in the series is a gripping, suspenseful masterpiece in characterizations, intertwined plot lines, and explosive action standing alone for the reading pleasure of new readers. However, I highly recommend readers begin with book one and settle in to enjoy a complex, captivating, highly atmospheric ride through the outstanding series with characters you'll either love or hate. Game Warden Joe Pickett and friend Nate Romanowski, a falconer, are still reeling from a previous vicious attack on their families by a madman that left Nate utterly devastated yet determined to hunt down and wield some old timey western justice to Axel Soledad. Leaving his young daughter with Joe's wife, he disappears off the grid, a ghost in the wind, a villain's worse nightmare in the dark, to team up with Geronimo, another man suffering losses brought about by the same evil man. Joe hasn't heard from Nate in months when, once again, he's tagged to carry out a special mission by reelected Governor Rubon - this time to conduct a discreet search for his missing son-in-law and his hunting guide who've gone dark and are apparently lost somewhere in the Sierra Madre mountain range. Torn between his professional and personal duties, Joe packs his gear into his truck and heads out to touch base with the newcomer game warden in the district including Battle Mountain before heading up the treacherous mountain to begin his search. Always diligent, Joe realizes the journey is perilous; however, he has no idea of the deadly storm brewing overhead and on the ground. Nor does he know that Nate and Geronimo's search for Soledad has led them to infiltrate the same area. Joe's search quickly morphs from tracking down a lost hunter to something more sinister to all concerned. One thing's clear, there's more at stake than two lost men and when the forces of nature and good vs. evil clash, things quickly turn deadly. Will anyone survive Battle Mountain? BATTLE MOUNTAIN is an explosive, highly atmospheric masterpiece of tautly woven plot lines, insane pacing, and relentless suspense. As always, Box captures the essence of the region with its breathtaking, serene beauty and camouflaged dangers. His descriptive prose transports readers into the towering mountains with panoramic views, deep valleys, and crystal-clear rivers to experience the power of mother nature and bear witness to the fact that she can turn on a dime according to the season and weather. Joe's constant battle to maintain his integrity and follow his high moral compass are at the heart of the story, driving agonizing decisions he's forced to make each time he's faced with stepping over that gray line for a friend. Character development is huge in each book, but greater still in the series overall. The cast is rounded out with an outstanding group of supporting characters who often find themselves trapped in deadly plots of their own. Fans of the series will devour BATTLE MOUNTAIN as I did. Highly recommended to readers who enjoy action-packed, intense suspense thrillers. A big thank you to G.P. Putnam Sons & Author C.J. Box for a complimentary arc of this title. Opinions expressed in this review are my own. BATTLE MOUNTAIN is scheduled for release on Feb. 25, 2025. This review first published in Mystery & Suspense Magazine and is also available on my blog, Cross My Heart Reviews.

Lend me your ear and I will tell you to read Battle Mountain by C.J. Box. It's the latest adventure with our favorite game warden Joe pickett, although the book is mostly centered around Nate Romanowski. Without spoiling the story I can tell you that things are about to get western. I think Box has come up with one of the few series where characters appear and reappear and they develop and become important parts of the story like no other series before. I just love it. I will recommend this book and the series to all I can think of since it is so well written and the characters are so great. I must thank Penguin Random House , G.P. Putnam's Sons and Edelweiss for letting me read this advance copy.

Wyoming game warden Joe Pickett is back in this riveting new thriller! Battle Mountain is a story of murder and vengeance - and one of war between the good guys and the bad. The destruction that Axel Soledad and Dallas Cates wreaked on Nate Romanowski and Joe Pickett left both men in tatters in Three Inch Teeth. However ... the war is far from over! It's my opinion that Battle Mountain doesn't work as a stand-alone. I highly recommend that you read, at the very least, Three Inch Teeth before this one. On the other hand, it's such a great series, start at #1!! I've been reading the Joe Pickett series since 2001, when Sheridan was a wee girl trying to save a weasel in the Pickett's wood pile. The 2025 Sheridan is a force to be reckoned with. I love her! I also thoroughly enjoyed Nate's friend, Geronimo Jones, and I hope he shows up again. Battle Mountain is such a page turner! I hated it when real life got in the way and I had to stop reading!! Seriously. HUGE thanks to #GPPutnamsSons for providing this book for review consideration via #NetGalley. All opinions are my own. This book is #25 in the series, and it has an expected publication date of Feb 25, 2025. #CJBox #Thriller #Vengeance #GameWarden #Friendship

This might be my favorite of all the Joe Pickett books. Definitely in the top two or three. It resolves a continuing storyline to my complete satisfaction -- especially after the emotional roller coaster of the last book. I'd give this 10 stars if I could. I listened to the audio book at 1.3X speed.

The governor asks Joe to find his son-in-law, last seen on a somewhat remote Battle Mountain. And Nate and his friend are out for revenge to kill Axel Soledad. Soledad murdered Nate’s wife and tried to kill his friend’s family. They are tracking Soledad to the same mountain. Joe and Nate are initially unaware of each other’s missions. However, Joe and Nate both learn separately that Soledad has a plan to assassinate a group of government leaders on an annual retreat to a resort on the mountain. Soledad is a former soldier angry at the way leadership is handling our military. And the group is called The Centurions; a private, secretive organization largely responsible for running the military. A great series, a great cast of characters, and a great story teller. My favorite Wyoming game warden!

C.J. Box's series might be named after Wyoming game warden Joe Pickett, but Battle Mountain is the Nate Romanowski show. Just as the good Lord intended. And Nate Romanowski is one of the last people I'd want hunting me. While Nate is scorching the earth, the governor asks Joe to find his idiot son-in-law and will run headfirst into Nate's path. For me, C.J. Box is the ultimate 'don't judge a book by its cover' author. Cowboys, hunting and fishing, horses, and the dusty range aren't my jam. However, I quickly learned the not my-jams were very much indeed my-jams. The outdoors stuff is a vehicle into the real essence of the Joe Pickett series: family, friendship, personal growth, loyalty, courage, doing what's right no matter what. Thanks to G.P. Putnam's & Sons for the advanced copy of Battle Mountain via NetGalley.

It's been a year since Axel Soledad murdered Nate Romanowski's wife Liv (in Three-Inch Teeth). At that time, Nate gave his toddler daughter to Marybeth and Joe Pickett for safekeeping and his bird abatement business to their oldest daughter, Sheridan, to run while he was gone. Nate had two goals: to get closer to the natural state of a predator, called yarack among falconers, and to put Axel closer to nature, via a casket. Joe and Marybeth have enjoyed caring for Kestrel and looking forward to having grandchildren. When Joe receives a call from Governor Rulon's aide, he knows it's trouble, but Rulon has gotten him and Nate out of trouble more than once, so he can't turn the governor down. Rulon had advised his nerdy son-in-law to take some time to toughen up by assisting a popular outfitter. However, the two men have disappeared, and Rulon's wife and daughter don't realize it. Rulon sends Joe south to seek them around Battle Mountain. Geronimo Jones, a friend of Nate's and fellow falconer, finds Nate by contacting Sheridan. Axel has burned Geronimo's house, but Geronimo has a lead on him, a lead that will take them to Battle Mountain. Meanwhile, some of the nation's most important men from the military industrial complex and their wives have gathered for their annual Centurion getaway, a secret society, at a ranch near Battle Mountain. Nearby, a group of bitter vets and campus Wokesters led by Axel Soledad plan to strike a blow against those who send them to war and then act as if they're fodder. C. J. Box is one of my favorite secular writers. I like Joe Pickett who is a good, decent family man, devoted to his wife, children, and personal integrity. He has the reputation for fining a governor for fishing without a fishing license and for being the state employee who has cost the state the most money in damaged trucks. Joe is the old-fashioned man who will try to do right even if it costs him and who has to find answers to problems, a True Grit type of guy. As in most of Box's stories, the reader can expect plenty of action. I read this book in two days, which means some things didn't get done at my home that should have. It is an exciting and fun story for readers who like thrillers.

5 Stars for Battle Mountain: Joe Pickett, Book 25 (audiobook) by C. J. Box read by David Chandler. The Governor’s son in law has gone missing while on a hunting trip and he’s desperate to get him home safe. So the Governor calls Joe Pickett to help find and bring him home even though it’s not in his jurisdiction. And Joe’s instructed to keep the details to himself so his wife and daughter won’t learn about the disappearance. It seems straightforward for Joe, but nothing ever seems to go as planned in the woods of Wyoming.

Long a favorite series of mine - this is the 25th installment - this one puts Wyoming game warden Joe Pickett in more of a background role, centering more on his falconer buddy Nate Romanowski. After Nate got married and had a daughter, he put his raptor talents up for sale in a legitimate business - aided by Sheridan Pickett, daughter of Joe and his wife Marybeth. But Nate's situation changed dramatically in the previous book (what happened I won't say to spoil things for those who haven't read it), and he turned the business over to Sheridan, his daughter Kestral over to Joe and Marybeth and once again headed off the grid. Actually, Nate is out to find Axel Soledad, the man responsible for his troubles and return to the wild. As it turns out, Nate wasn't the only one hurt by the guy, though; his friend Geronimo Jones is also on the hunt. So, they team up, hoping to eliminate Alex outright - or at least render him incapable of harming anyone else. As their quest gets under way, Joe's is just beginning; his old friend, once again the governor of Wyoming, calls him in to ask a favor. His son-in-law, it seems, went off on some kind of elk-hunting expedition and seems to have gone missing. To avoid worrying his daughter and aggravating his wife for recommending the excursion, the governor wants Joe to track him down on the Q.T. The story follows both search efforts (mostly those of Nate and Geronimo), until - no surprise here - they begin to merge. Of course, everything takes place in remote places, where cell phone coverage is spotty at best and not watching where your feet are going can prove dangerous (as can some nasty folks with powerful weapons and no qualms at all about who they're pointed at). All told, it's an exciting adventure with a few edge-of-seat moments and an ending that promises fodder for the next installment - to which, of course, I'm looking forward. For now, I thank the publisher, via NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review a pre-release copy of this one.

It is always a pleasure to receive an ARC of a Joe Pickett novel and I immediately dive in with anticipatory glee. I have never read one I didn’t like and this one does not disappoint. Filled with the beauty of the West and characters that meld so well together, I found myself wanting to belong to this band of friends and join their posse in the fight against evil and injustice. Does this one have a dramatic ending? Add it to your reading list for next year and you will have your answer. Don’t miss it!

This is the best series, I’m so glad I took the time to read it! You will not be disappointed!

Now we're talkin'...We've got all of our favorites here...Joe Pickett, on another special mission from Governor, seeking his missing son-in-law and Nate Romanowski on a mission of vengeance, on the tail of his wife's murderer...Great stuff and it was a special pleasure to have similar political beliefs edge into the story...That was a big bonus...Loved It!!!

5 plus stars all the way. Some books ease you in...not this book. It starts out right in the thick of it - especially if you read all the previous books, then you know about Nate and what he is up to. It is kind of like diving right into the deep end of the pool. You will be hooked from the first paragraph on. It was a book that I did not want to finish because it was so good reading - but the pages just flew by so fast because! I wish I had more in this series to read....have to wait for the next book to come out now....

A long-time Joe Pickett fan, I usually compliment CJ Box in my reviews for his ability to make each book in the series stand alone. New readers can pick up any book in the middle of the 25-book saga and figure out the main characters and the plot without a problem. In "Battle Mountain," Box's latest release, uninitiated readers can still follow the plot, but we have a record number of returning characters, as well as constant references to previous Pickett adventures. I did not find this distracting--in fact, I admire how the author is able to continually mine Wyoming as a setting for life-threatening tales of adventure--but new readers might. Wyoming game warden Joe Pickett pairs with rookie warden Susan Kany to search for the governor's missing son-in-law in the treacherous Sierra Madre mountains. Simultaneously, force-of-nature falconer Nate Romanowski, reeling from personal loss, vows vengeance against Axel Soledad, the man responsible for his wife's death. As their separate paths converge at Battle Mountain, Box masterfully does his thing--intertwining themes of loyalty, retribution, and survival, while delivering a non-stop action thriller.

This was an excellent addition to the Joe Pickett series. There was so much buildup from previous books coming into this one and Box handled it incredibly well. Coming back to this series is like catching up with old friends, and this one didn't disappoint. There were a few plotlines that intersected and it was handled very well. Also, any time Sheridan comes into play these days, I get excited. And she had a kick ass moment in this one. The very end of the book gave me happy chills. I've given the last few 4 stars, but this one was worthy of five as it brought everything together so well.

Another great Joe Pickett story. Have to wait for the next one. Thanks CJ Box

I'm a HUGE C.J. Box fan and I just love the Joe Pickett series! I've read them all, and this is the 25th book. These books never disappoint! In this installment, Wyoming Game Warden Joe Pickett is called on by Governor Rulon for a favor. He needs Joe to locate his missing son-in-law, who hasn't been in contact since he went off with a popular outfitter. Meanwhile, Joe's good friend Nate Romanowski has been off the grid since the murder of his wife. He's left his daughter with Joe and his wife, Marybeth, for the time being so he can get his revenge. Axel Soledad is still alive and causing havoc. Nate is determined to find out what he's up to and put an end to him with the help of his good friend and fellow falconer, Geronimo Jones. This book, like all the others in the series, is fast-paced and action-packed! There's never a dull moment, and I loved all the adventure! I really enjoyed the storyline of this one. It was full of suspense and had me on the edge of my seat. I also loved that my favorite character, Nate Romanowski, had a bigger role. What initially drew me to this series is that it takes place in Wyoming, and the author does an amazing job with the descriptions. He really makes me feel like I'm there. This was most definitely a page-turner, and I HIGHLY recommend it!

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Battle Mountain Author: C.J. Box Source: Bookstore Purchase Publication Date: February 25, 2025 🦅 Battle Mountain, a captivating novel by C.J. Box, takes readers on another exhilarating journey. Years ago, I would have dismissed the idea of becoming enamored with stories about a Wyoming Game Warden. But Mr. Box’s remarkable writing and skillful storytelling hooked me on each new book in the Joe Pickett series. This is the 25th installment in the Joe Pickett saga, and Battle Mountain delves into the dark underbelly of the Wyoming mountain range, where crime thrives. The story follows Game Warden Joe Pickett as the governor of Wyoming recruits him to find his missing son-in-law, who has been hired to assist a hunting guide. Though not technically within Joe’s jurisdiction, this personal favor to the governor sets the stage for an intriguing plot. While Battle Mountain can be read as a standalone, I highly recommend it if you’re familiar with the wickedly bad guy, Axel Soledad. However, one of my favorite characters remains Nate, a former member of military special forces who operates by a strict code of no-nonsense behavior and unwavering loyalty to his family, friends, and his beloved falcons. Throughout the series, I’ve gained valuable insights into falconry, making the entire narrative even more captivating. If you’re new to the Joe Pickett series, I recommend starting with the first novel, “Open Season,” published in 2001. Trust me, you won’t regret it. Battle Mountain is a must-read for anyone seeking an enthralling and suspenseful read. @cjboxnovels #battlemountain #nate #joepickett #wyoming #gamewarden #murder #death #guns #retribution #justice #elk #falcons #falconer #peregrine @putnambooks #gpputnumandsons 🦅 #book #books #bookAddict #BooksOfInstagram #bookstagram #bookstagramer #bookshelf #reader#bookreviewer

Loved Battle Mountain! Joe, Nate, Geronimo lead us through many adventures, which ends up at Battle Mountain.Many people can be lead astray with beliefs that are instilled in them by going against the norms.

C.J. Box has done it. He's now churned out enough truly excellent novels that I am finally willing to declare him my favorite contemporary thriller writer. He has the Joe Pickett formula down to a science. A likable Wyoming game warden with an equally likable family gets himself into all kinds of hair-raising scrapes and somehow manages to survive so that yet another book can be written. But it's Nate Romanowski, Joe's mysterious and downright scary friend that steals the show in every book. In Battle Mountain, the creepy villain Axel Soledad resurfaces with some very bad intentions after Joe and Nate thought they had killed him (in a previous book). There happens to be a secret meeting taking place at a secluded mountain lodge involving powerful politicians, cabinet members, and military big wigs, and Soledad wants to blow it up. Literally. Our boy Joe stumbles into the mess (as usual) and suddenly it's fasten your seatbelt time. Joe Pickett is so endearing because he has unshakable integrity and the tenacity of a bulldog, but at the same time is a hot mess. He fumbles and bumbles his way through every crisis, somehow surviving by the skin of his teeth. His friend Nate, who might be my favorite character in all of fiction, usually materializes out of nowhere and saves his bacon. The Joe Pickett novels move at lightning speed. They are not comedies, yet there are deft touches of sophisticated humor, especially if you've read a few of the books and know the characters well. I will say that the books build on each other, so if you read them out of sequence you'll encounter some spoilers. I highly recommend this series and this book.

Living in Wyoming, I have a deep appreciation for stories that get the landscape and the people right—and Battle Mountain absolutely delivers. C.J. Box captures the grit, independence, and quiet strength that define so much of life out here. His storytelling is sharp, and this book is one of his best yet. The suspense pulled me in, and I couldn’t put it down. The pacing, the twists, and the characters all hit the mark. Box writes with the kind of authenticity that makes you feel like you’re riding alongside Joe Pickett, watching the story unfold against a backdrop you know and love. Highly recommend this one—especially for anyone who appreciates a well-crafted Western thriller grounded in real places and real stakes.

This was an enjoyable read. Joe Pickett does the right thing, he's a man of integrity. And the main characters also do the right thing. My only frustration is the series is getting more political, especially right wing fringe. While those right wing fringe ideas are often told in a way that they seem silly, it's still leaning more in that direction. Still, it's a series where the main characters make good choices, and it has entertaining value.

Joe Pickett is again called to do a special favor for the governor, only to end up in a serious gun battle with a militia force that had an axe to grind with the military establishment. As always, the location is in an isolated mountain location requiring long, rigorous walks carrying heavy weapons. The final death was to a long-standing thorn in the flesh enemy who needed killing. Another fine read from Mr. Box.

C J Box really owns how to weave 4 stories into one and not lose the reader. The Joe Picket novels just keep getting better. It was hard to put this one down. The characters become old friends. You find yourself hoping all goes well. When it doesn’t, it’s something you take to heart. And accept it. These aren’t sugar coated stories. Anything can happen.

This was a really great book. The characters were true to form with the-rest of the series and pictures were vivid and detailed. The only fly in the ointment was the very end. The last chapter was a bit of a non chapter. Lots of loose ends tied up as an after thought. Still all in all a great read. Word to the wise - read the series in order. They would be good stories anyway but so much better when you know the history. .

I love this author and I love the Joe Pickett series. There isn’t one book in this series that is bad. They are all excellent. The characters are outstanding. The storylines are outstanding and I can’t wait to read my next Joe Pickett book. I highly recommend.

I could read books from the Joe Pickett series every day of the year. Just fantastic. CJ created a new character named Susan Kany, a fellow game warden. If there was a spinoff series with her as the main character, that would be a dream come true.

Joe and Nate are on another mission where their paths cross, but this time they are going at it from two different directions. Joe is helping the governor find his missing son-in-law while Nate is looking for revenge for the man who killed his wife. Their paths cross for an explosive climax on Battle Mountain where an organized group is planning to cause chaos for an isolated community. I love this series and it is amazing that after over 20 novels, C.J. Box still creates imaginative storylines with a cast of characters that are fun and engaging. I hope the Pickett series continues for many years to come!

Excellent Joe and Nate at their very best. My only complaint would be that the book wasn’t longer. Probably went quicker because i was hooked.

Another lightning fast thriller, from page one. Exciting plot and fun action.

Brad Thor continues to be the best thriller writer in the game. He gets better with every Scot Harvath tale.

Americans Need More Harvath! As we near our nation’s celebration of democracy, Americans remain confused, wary, distrustful, and uncertain on both sides of political divides. We have become victims of conspiracy theory, sensationalism, and double speak, much of which originates from the White House. So, we do not have to stretch imagination as readers to slip into Brad Thor’s settings, conflicts, and characters. Sometimes, truthfully, these all seem too real. As we have watched in real time, our nation seize oil tankers, kidnap a Venezuelan dictator and his wife, prepare to govern a foreign nation while suggesting we seize Greenland, we readers can easily fathom a plot in which the secret service coverage for some of our ambassadors and allies is eliminated making them vulnerable to capture or attack to be used as pawns in the ever expanding geopolitical landscape. Also not at all hard to imagine that within federal programs, recruitment of neo Nazis and other whites supremacy groups have infiltrated organizations and branches from DHS to ICE to FBI. After all, with full pardons and cleared records, many of January 6 insurrections received accolades and job opportunities. Also not hard to imagine wealthy billionaires and shadowy oligarchs manipulating government in the United States and abroad in ways to undermine international alliances. Thor’s books expose plot dangers and possibilities that CIA and FBI should use as training manuals. Well researched, these books deliver the fast-paced action of a Mission Impossible extreme level. For fans, the ensemble of characters are familiar and admirable. Harvath unlike Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan, was never just a detailed analyst. Although field trained, war weathered, he is equally skilled as a Jack Ryan CIA analyst, competent, honorable, and tenacious. Once upon a time, I read these books for escapism. Now, I read praying and hoping those plot lines can remain limited to books and that we have enough honorable active, retired, and involved patriots who can protect and serve stateside and away, who value our democracy and our allies.

Another excellent effort by Brad Thor. I’ve read all 24 books in the Scot Harvath series, and every one is current, believable and kind of scary. They give you a look behind the scenes of the political elite, and the intelligence community. This one does as well, while weaving a gripping story of what “could be” going on in our country right now! Domestic terrorism, foreign interference in our country, power, greed…it’s all in there.

A really good page turner, particularly the latter third of the book. Brad Thor has recaptured his mojo after a few rather lackluster novels. It is a particularly good read following the events this week after the assassination of Charlie Kirk. Political intrigue and machinations, manipulation of the public, political violence, and Russian involvement…quite apropos.

" It's time for America to take charge of its future again...." This installment was great because it could be a standalone even if you had never read any of the series. Also, I loved how Thor brought Scot home.

enthralling read Another hit! Excellent story from prelude to the last page! Scot Harvard and Solvi make a fun team. Read it! Well worth the time!

An amazing read. Very realistic and thought provoking. Had my interest held through out the page turning. One of my top authors. Very consistent and informative.

Another FANTASTIC book from one of my favorite authors. This book was published at just the right time and came out at the same time that the book takes place - right before the celebration of America's Independence Day. It makes us so PROUD to be an American as we get to follow along as Scot and his new wife get sucked in to the newest drama in Washington, DC just as they are trying to retire from the intelligence game. Unfortunately, or actually fortunately for us - the two of them happen to be right in the middle of a terrorist attack and are the reason that things do not escalate further. Then things take off from there. I absolutely LOVE it when Mr. Thor releases his Scot Harvath book each year (we are now on book 24) and it is one of my favorite releases of the year that I look forward to. For someone who reads hundreds and hundreds of books each year, that is definitely saying something. Mr. Thor does not disappoint. Now the wait for book 25 begins.....

Brad Thor is the recognized master of the genre. After reading this fast-paced action-packed thriller, he is still in the lead. Scot Harvath is into trouble every other day, running and gunning and saving the democracy from the swamp creatures that have embedded themselves into the halls of power. Sølvi gets tagged to bodyguard the Norwegian Prime Minister when she comes to the US for a NATO Summit that turns to shit from the get-go. Scot is following the clues and doing what needs to be done. Lots of players, including home-grown terrorists and foreign countries sewing disruption and chaos, political corruption and downright treason. The action events are well-paced and the timing is pretty much perfect. If you never ready a Scot Harvath novel, read this one! Outstanding, Brad. Truly a great one. Thank you.

READ MY FULL REVIEW AT Best Thriller Books Make sure to check out the full review

Another very good action read which has Scot Harvath and his new bride Solvi running for their lives most of this story by Brad Thor. Scott & Solvi return to America after a 6 month honeymoon traveling and relaxing in some of the most beautiful places in the world AND that's when the wheels come off and they are both stuck in the middle of a deceptive war of politics, egos, powerplays and retribution that is one of the deadliest plots I have read in a long time. While on the way to a party at the invitation of the Norwegian Ambassador they are caught in the middle of a shootout with a team of pros attacking the Norwegian embasy. It's the first of many dangerous and deadly situations they find themselves involved in as we approach the 4th of July holiday! Scott, with the help of a few "old friends" and acquaintances helps stop a group of wealthy men, politicians, traitorous government officials and white supremacists while Solvi agrees to protect the Norwegian Ambassador and her staff. It's a full plate of bad guys who are determined to make the US President resign so they can put someone they want in power. It's a scary planned coup that can work if not for Scott, Solvi and "the gang". FYI: Mr. Thor, info for Mr. Gaines....if getting married at the Graceland Wedding Chapel in Las Vegas, they have someone who can witness and sign your wedding papers! At least, they did when my husband and I got married there 29 years ago! Cheers and enjoy!

** spoiler alert ** “Edge of Honor” by Brad Thor is a great 4th of July thriller. is the 24th Scot Harvath novel, published in July 2025. It is a gripping tale that follows the ex-Navy SEAL and counterterrorism expert, Scot Harvath, as he returns from a six month honeymoon with his new wife, Solvi, to find himself entangled in a DC power grab orchestrated by a shadowy cabal seeking to control America. The novel explores themes of faith, family, and freedom, which resonate deeply with me. Harvath’s resilience is tested as he navigates a series of intense action sequences, from a blistering ambush on Embassy Row to covert operations that keep the reader on the edge of their seat. Harvath’s balanced approach, characterized by his love for Solvi and his team, evokes a sense of family fighting for what is right. Thor’s sharp writing maintains a realistic portrayal of the action, infusing the story with a compelling emotional core. “Edge of Honor” concludes with a resounding bang, embodying Thor’s signature blend of bold patriotism and unwavering loyalty. It leaves the reader feeling proud of American values and eager to delve deeper into the political underbelly of Washington, D.C., as revealed in the subsequent novels in the series. I highly recommend “Edge of Honor” for readers seeking a fast paced, thrilling, and thought provoking read. Its captivating narrative and enduring themes make it a must read for fans of the genre.

This is the 25th book in Thor’s Scot Harvath series (at least by my count!)- and, in my opinion, one of the best! After his last assignment, Harvath has left his job with the Carlton Group and married Solvi, a agent in the Norwegian Intelligence Service, and embarked on a six month honeymoon traveling the world and winding up back in the Washington DC area. And just as quickly as he had stepped back, he is thrust into action by a violent attack at a rally in front of the home of the Vice President of the US. An important NATO summit meeting is to happen a few days later, and Solvi is asked to assist in the protection of her home country’s Prime Minister. When a motorcade carrying the PM and the Norwegian Ambassador is attacked, Scot is back full time in finding out who is behind these attacks - who hopes to gain? This is a non-stop book - each time Harvath uncovers what he thinks will lead him to the ultimate owner of these horrific attacks, he realizes he is just uncovering one page of a large book. This edition in the series is quintessential Harvath - along with many of his associates (especially Nicholas) from earlier books. While one might imagine this is the final chapter in his story - I don’t think (hope!) so. Thor is at the top of his game in this great series.

Scot Harvath and his new bride Solvi have just returned from an extended world-wide honeymoon. On the way to an evening out at the Norwegian Embassy, they are passing a peaceful protest in front of the Vice President's resident, when suddenly the protesters come under attack from fully armored men. Thus begins a heart-stopping, mind-blowing series of events that drag Scot back into the Carlton group and counterintelligence while Solve is recruited to help with the Norwegian ambassador. Meanwhile FBI agents Jennifer Fields and Joseph Carolan have been put in a basement office to investigate a special Russian Operation suspected of infiltrating the U.S. government. Eventually, the two lines of investigation come together to discover a plan specifically targeting the administration of the newly elected president. Power hungry politicians, money hungry employees, media manipulated by persons for self-interest, behind the scenes machinations by foreign leaders to divide the country by creating terror with random shootings and destructive activities - gee, it sounds like today!

Brad Thor has truly outdone himself with this thrilling novel! Get ready to dive into the action alongside Scott Harvath, an incredible ex-Navy SEAL and intelligence operative, who finds himself caught in a whirlwind of excitement that will keep you on the edge of your seat. From the very first page, the story grabs you tight, making it hard to put down—you won’t want to miss a single twist! As Harvath plunges into a dangerous conspiracy, he faces shifting alliances and high-stakes politics that put everything he stands for to the test. Each turn of the page pulls you deeper into a world filled with suspense and intrigue, as Harvath races against time to uncover a plot that could change everything. This is a must-read adventure that promises to thrill and inspire! Enjoy the journey!is packed with action and intrigue, as Harvath races against time to unravel a plot that could alter the course of history

Scot Harvath returns in Edge of Honor, and the adrenaline kicks in from page one. What begins as a peaceful retirement in the United States, complete with his new bride and plans for a quiet Fourth of July, quickly spirals into chaos. Instead of fireworks, Harvath finds himself in the middle of a gunfight outside the Norwegian embassy. From there, the stakes escalate as he’s drawn into unraveling a conspiracy that threatens to shake the very foundation of the nation. This installment delivers exactly what fans expect: relentless action, sharp pacing, and Harvath doing what he does best. While the plot isn’t groundbreaking, it cleverly weaves in elements of America’s current divisions, adding a layer of relevance without overshadowing the thrill ride. Edge of Honor is a solid addition to the Scot Harvath series. Fast, fun, and packed with the kind of high-octane moments that keep readers turning pages late into the night.

From the beginning with Lions of Lucerne, I have never read a Brad Thor novel that didn’t capture me from the opening pages and keep me riveted all the way through. Edge of Honor continues this trend. In fact, this may be Thor’s best novel in his extensive catalog. As a notable reviewer wrote: “Brad Thor brings the fireworks!”, and he most certainly does from the opening pages. The fast paced action and intrigue persist throughout this page turner centered around the heroic Scot Harvath and his entertaining cast of characters including Solvi, Carolan, Fields and, my personal favorite, Nicholas the Troll. The characters make every Thor novel memorable while the stories and action keep the pages turning. You will NOT be able to put this one down! There is a reason Brad Thor is a Tier One operator among authors!

Another book in the Scot Harvath series, if you haven't read the others you can read this as a stand alone but I like knowing all the background of things that are mentioned in this book. Just like the others this one is believable - in fact a little too believable - it's scary. I had love/hate feelings while reading it. Did I really think this could happen? Yes. Should I put the book down and stop reading so I don't worry about how realistic the theme is. Yes. But did I? No. This book weaves a gripping story of what “could be” going on in our country right now! Domestic terrorism, foreign interference in our country, power, greed…it’s all in there. The other win for me personally is Scot's fictional home is located down the river from where I grew up very easy for me to visualize.

Top flight thriller/adventure. Scot "Norseman" Harvath teams up with Nicholas, Mike Haney and the ex-CIA director to tackle a chaotic DC pair of shootings one of which involved his new wife, Solvi. Who are the bad guys? Americans! Impossible. Worse, they're ex-CIA! Following this twisted trail is demanding and draining, especially for a man who's trying to leave the clandestine service and settle down a bit. Still, the nation is in crisis and there's no one else who's following this trail. Who could gain volunteers who had pledged to uphold the Constitution and now seem determined to undermine the Presidency? Where do senators and the vice-president stand? Who can they trust? Nice yarn, well delivered.

For a change Scott Harveth is home, with his wife!!! This is no time for a rest though as Scott ans Solvi will have to stop coup, which can become an international incident. Much like today, some in the government do not like the new president, but unlike today they don't belittle him or use the courts or other methods to get thier message out. Instead they use guns, RPGs, serin gas and other lethal devices on people that are not the president for false flag events. As the new stay at home hubby goes to work, he already misses the field and does not disappoint. Biggest question now is what's next?

If there was a Mount Rushmore for Thriller Authors Brad Thor would definitely be on it. In this story a Corrupt Senator and his Co-Conspirators try to remove the Current President and put the Vice President into power by recruiting Ex Military and Ex Secret Service Members by orcustrating attacks that would force the President to resign. My favorite part of the story was when Scot Harvath fought and defeated one of the Co-Conspirators Hale who was a giant but Harvath used his skills to take him down

John Grisham knocks this one out of the park SUMMARY Bookstore owner Bruce Cable’s is preparing for the return of bestselling author Mercer Mann to his store on Camino Island when a hurricane heads directly for the island. A mandatory evacuation is ordered, but Bruce decides to stay and ride out the category 4 storm. The Hurricane Leo devastates the island. Homes, hotels and storefronts were demolished and several people died. One of the victims is Nelson Kerr, an author and friend of Bruce’s, who is asked to identify the body. Nelson’s injuries look suspicious to Bruce. But who would want Nelson dead? The local police are overwhelmed with the storm and are ill equipped to handle a murder case right now so Cable takes matter into his own hands. Could Nelson’s murder be related a book he is working on? Was someone trying to keep him quiet? REVIEW John Grisham knocks it out of the park once again. CAMINO WINDS is a perfect read. The writing is seamless, the characters are intriguing and the story is riveting. You will be hooked from page one. Grisham’s description of Hurricane Leo brought back memories for me of Hurricane Michael from 2018. While the path wasn’t quite the same, I can still hear the cracking and crashing trees and branches and the howling winds much like described in the book. Even the impassable roads and the indescribable devastation of the homes and businesses in the aftermath was similar. Unfortunately a year and a half later, much of the devastation that occurred during Hurricane Michael still exists to this day in many parts of Northwest Florida. Based on his descriptions I have to think that Grisham has survived one or more hurricanes. My favorite part was Bruce Cable’s intriguing character and the repartee he had with his friends. I appreciated the effort Bruce’s and his friends took to ensure that the cops treated Nelson’s death as a murder and not just as a result of the Hurricane. Publisher Doubleday Books Published April 28, 2020 Narrated Michael Beck Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

Always enjoy Grisham who either knocks it out of the park with his legal thrillers or writes a good solid legal thriller. Have to admit that I haven't read any of his "side subject books" for example his books on baseball. Tried Calico Joe but put it down for later as I love watching my home team Astros but I do not enjoy reading anything about sports. Back to Camino Island... I adore books with characters that are campy and this book as well as Camino Winds has those in spades. Besides engaging storylines the character development in these first two books was strong. I of course own a copy of Camino Ghosts but haven't read it yet as I am so far behind on my physical TBR. Then their is book club and my Goodreads discussion groups which I quite enjoy.

This, the author's second adventure set on Camino Island, puts some of the characters from the first (appropriately titled Camino Island) back in the eye of the storm. This time, though, it's literally; not long after the story begins, Hurricane Leo threatens to disrupt the festivities honoring successful author Mercer Mann that are to take place in Bruce Cable's Bay Books store. Mercer, who has a college teaching gig, has returned to the island with her latest boy toy, Thomas, expecting to be wined and dined by her old friends. But it's not long before all those plans are blowin' in the wind; Leo, it seems, has set his eye on the island's downtown. Evacuations are ordered, but Bruce and a couple of his friends decide to ride it out. Luckily, they survive the devastation; but no such luck for Nelson Kerr, a thriller writer and one of Bruce's friends. He's found dead at his damaged home; but an up-close-and-personal look determines that Leo may not have been the killer. Since Nelson died in the storm when debris was flying everywhere, the local police aren't quite ready to buy the murder angle - and even if they did, they're up to their eyeballs in clean-up efforts and making sure looters don't start running rampant. Bruce, though, is positive he's right. As he and his friends, including Mercer and Thomas, put their heads together, the consensus is that somebody, somewhere, didn't want Nelson's not-yet-published manuscript to see the light of print. But who might that be? Surely not one of their own - each of whom has a background and secrets that are slowly revealed as the story unfolds - and issues are resolved - over a period of a year or so. As was the first book, it's told in a narrative style, although there seems to be more dialogue here (and, maybe because of that, I think I slightly prefer this one). Those expecting courtroom theatrics will be disappointed, although lawyers do get involved in some of the goings-on. All in all, this one is thoroughly enjoyable - and I've definitely taken a liking to this series. More, please!

** spoiler alert ** This is a very exciting and shocking story about a toxic drug coming in from China and being used in nursing homes to keep old people alive even tho they go blind from the drug! It seems to be a form of vitamin E and my father was given vitamin E for his heart which did him no good.

Very good book.this was better than his other books

For those of you who follow me, I get the majority of my books from my local library. But I do have to wait for them, a long time sometimes, especially when they are by bestselling authors, like this one. I ordered this book on May 14, 2025, and according to the library I was still #16 on the list as of June 15th.This meant I most likely would not see this book for check-out until sometime in 2026, if I was lucky! How did I come up with that conclusion? As it so happens, new library books are allowed to be checked out for 3 weeks at a time by library patrons. Which means that if each library patron checked out this book for the allotted 3 weeks each, I may not see this book until June of 2026. Of course, if the library had multiple copies of the book, I may be able to read it sooner. But budgets this year are tight because cutbacks at the federal level. So, word on down is that less library books were being purchased for the system. 😢 But luck was on my side in a different way. This book was donated to my Little Free Library Shed. 🍀 So, it meant that I could take my time reading it, before making it available to my neighborhood. Needless to say, when I walked through my front door with the donation, my husband knew immediately how thrilled I felt by the generosity of the individual who left the book for our LFL. And, even though I had time to read it, I couldn’t wait to start it. Afterall, it was a Michael Connelly book! Welcome to a new Connelly character, Los Angeles County Detective Sargeant Stilwell. With an interesting twist. No first name for our new guy, simply because Connelly hasn’t decided on one. And, a new setting, Catalina Island. For those who haven’t had the experience of Catalina Island, it is a picturesque island located off the coast of Southern California. It is about 22 miles long and 8 miles across, covering about 75 square miles. You can only get there by ferry, boat, helicopter or private plane. It is known for its quaint town of Avalon, rugged hilly terrain, canyons, coastal cliffs, stunning beaches and natural beauty. It is also considered a beautiful tourist destination. No cars are driven on the island, just golf cart like vehicles, (known as UTV’s – or utility task vehicles), and/or bikes. Nearly 90% of the island remains wilderness and is protected from development by the Catalina Island Conservancy. As part of the Channel Islands, it is the only island of the 8-island chain that allows a permanent civilian population and visitors. These scenic details will be important to the storyline. I’ll never forget coming to Catalina Island as a kid. The bumpy rough seas ferry ride wasn’t exactly fun, and I spent most of my first trip attending to my sour stomach. But I soon became a seasoned traveler/visitor to the island during the years that I lived in Southern California. Back to the book. Considering the uniqueness of the location, it makes it rather cumbersome when a body is discovered in the ocean anchored below some seagrass. Since homicide detectives and forensics from the mainland need to come in and take jurisdiction of the body and the case, how will Stilwell and his officers now be involved in solving the murder? And, how will this murder affect business and tourism in the town of Avalon? Especially considering this kind of publicity was not desired by the Mayor and the crime occurred before a major holiday weekend. And, most importantly, who was the victim, why were they killed, and by whom? As readers become invested in Stilwell and his team, they are also aware they are in the midst of the beginning of a very busy Memorial Day weekend. Aren’t tourist weekends supposed to be just fun and sun only? With numerous cases keeping the team active, and an uncooperative homicide detective from Stilwell’s past in charge of the murder case impeding Stilwell’s involvement in the investigation, the team continues to do whatever they can to support it. What will their investigations behind-the-scenes discover? In this compelling, engrossing, twisty, fast-paced, character-driven, page-turning, well-crafted new police procedural thriller, readers will appreciate Connelly taking us outside Hieronymus “Harry” Bosch territory and providing us with someone new to follow. Will this be a continuing series? If so, count me in. After all, Stilwell deserves a first name, eventually.

I’ll be honest and declare upfront that when I started reading this book, I assumed it was to be a tale featuring Connelly’s current major characters, Harry Bosch and Renee Ballard. It took me a while to discover that neither was to feature this time around. Instead, he’s introduced a new detective to his collection: Stilwell – known to his friends as Stil, and to at least one non-friend as Stilborn. Stil is based on Catalina Island, one of California’s Channel Islands, about an hour’s ferry ride from Los Angeles. It’s a posting synonymous with being ‘put out to grass’. This follows a fallout with a fellow detective on the mainland. He’s serving penance, but beginning to think that this place may actually be somewhere he’d like to stay. He has a burgeoning relationship with a woman he really likes, and maybe even loves, and the place just seems to suit him. Then, a body is discovered in the harbour. It's been tied to an anchor and lies below the surface of the water. It’s an inconvenient time, as the harbour is about to become a busy place - this weekend being one on which many visitors are scheduled to arrive, quite a few with their own boats. Stil knows that the murder – which this obviously is – will be investigated by a team from the mainland. But would you believe it, the lead detective assigned is the very man Stil has an issue with - the man whose actions, and Stil's reaction to them, resulted in his current posting. The story follows Stilwell’s increasingly unwanted (by the lead detective and their joint boss) meddling in the investigation, together with his progressively complicated and often confrontational relationships with just about everyone he comes into contact with. It’s really great fun, and as the tale played out, I was to find myself increasing drawn to yet another of Connelly’s principled and charismatic characters. For Bosch it’s: everybody counts or nobody counts For Stilwell it’s: the sacred bond between the victim and those charged with finding justice Yes, Stil has elements of Bosch about him – as does Ballard – but he’s different enough, and the setting is different enough to make it all feel new and fresh. I’m definitely looking forward to meeting up with Stilwell again. My thanks to Orion Publishing Group for supplying a copy of this book via NetGalley in return for an honest review

A brand new character from Michael Connelly!! This longtime fan has been very excited about Nightshade ever since I heard about it. It has been a long time since this has happened and it was so exciting to meet Detective Stilwell and explore Catalina with him. As always with a Connelly book, there is so much going on with multiple storylines happening. Stilwell has been exiled to. The island off the California coast after an incident on his last case. But it turns out, he quite likes it there. His usual day to day work has him dealing with thefts and drunk tourists, but now he has a body. A woman has been weighed down in the water in the harbour and has to call in the mainland cops. I absolutely loved this book. It was dark and clever, with a touch of humor and sass . I really enjoyed the setting of Catalina, and all the challenges that came with being a cop on a small island. Stilwell is still earning the trust of the locals but really doesn’t care what people think of him. He does what he has to do to solve the case and get the right person for the crimes. Sounds familiar? yes there were times that I could see Bosch is Stilwell but he is different in so many ways as well. I cannot wait for more from Catalina, and maybe a first name for Detective Stilwell as well. This is the first in a new series, so there is absolutely no excuses for not picking it up. Thank you so so much to Little Brown and Company for my advanced copy of Nightshade to read. You made me very happy. Out on May 20th.

I like Michael Connelly's books and have read all the books in the series about Harry Bosch, but this book features a new character: Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Detective Stilwell. He is the same type of detectives who fight to get justice for the dead victims. He was exiled to a small island for having a conflict with a former colleague, but unexpectedly finds a happy life there. Soon, the life of the island itself is going to change dramatically. I would like to think that we, readers, are going to meet him again in other new books, and it won't be a stand-alone novella. The book is written in Michael Connelly's style, and as always, it is a not-put-down one, and I recommend it to everyone who likes a good detective book.

In Nightshade , Michael Connelly’s latest book, he introduces a new and interesting character, Sheriff’s Detective Stillwell (I don’t believe his first name is ever used). Like so many of Connelly’s characters Stillwell is in trouble with his previous position with the Los Angeles Police Department. He has been banished to the Catalina Islands. The book contains several of the usual Connelly vehicles, including overlapping cases involving a conspiracy and a homicide, a love interest, police department intrigue and politics, some nasty people, and convenient clues that the writing supports as good detective work. This is an author who has written over 40 best-selling novels since 1992. He proves again he can still create a new character and package an interesting story.

Michael Connelly's latest novel "Nightshade" introduces readers to his newest character, Detective Stilwell. Much like other hard-boiled detectives before him, he is given no first name. And, much like other hard-boiled detectives, he has a troubled past. Part of Los Angeles County, Santa Catalina Island is located roughly 22 miles off the coast of Southern California. Stilwell was "exiled" to Catalina Island, a small community off the coast of Los Angeles, after a brouhaha with another detective in LAPD homicide division. Stilwell accused the detective of shoddy, lazy detective work which put an innocent person in prison. The accusation made the detective---and the department---look bad. Never mind that his accusation was correct. For his troubles, Stilwell was downgraded to a lesser position on the small island. It was meant to be a punishment. To Stilwell's surprise, he's grown attached to the small-town feel of the place. Dealing with mostly drunk-and-disorderlies and the occasional misdemeanor, Stilwell's new life is pretty laid back on Catalina Island. He's also met a nice woman, and the relationship seems promising. Avalon is the only city on the island, providing a bevy of high-end shops and eateries for tourists. Of course, there is always trouble in paradise, and for Stilwell it comes in threes. First, the island's exclusive country club, the Black Marlin Club, has reported the theft of a priceless art piece. Then, a buffalo at a local nature preserve was killed and decapitated. Finally, the body of a young woman is discovered at the bottom of the harbor, clearly murdered. Two or more of these cases, it turns out, may be related. Connelly has created another great character in Stilwell, and "Nightshade" is another riveting page-turner. Already looking forward to the next book in this new series. I read this as an audiobook, narrated by Will Damron.

A perfect trifecta of Connolly’s main men: Bosch, Haller and now Stilwell. I loved the setting on Catalina Island and I could not get out of my head that perhaps Connolly could do for Catalina what Elin Hilderbrand did for Nantucket. No wait! Don’t let that happen! As much as I’ve wished to visit Nantucket, I’m equal parts terrified by all those Hildebabes that sojourn there annually. Anyway, back to Stilwell. He was sent off to Catalina for some major mess up he was part of in LA. He explains his side of the story but I can already tell Stilwell is no angel. He may or may not be a “reliable narrator” of his own story. I love that I’m in on the ground floor of this new series instead of trying to catch up. Now, Connolly needs to do me a favor and get a storyline that brings Bosch, Haller and Stilwell together on Catalina. I’m begging for this! Last I love the Zane Grey references. I grew up on Zane, and at one point had a whole collection of his books before I downsized my life to one-tenth. I know now I am headed to Catalina to see all there is to see.

I'm happy to see this characterized as first of a series; since it's not part of the Bosch/Ballard universe, I suspected a standalone. Having let Bosch age in real time, he's too old for any rough stuff or, really, to not be retired. Stilwell is Bosch's soul in a younger detective; the story takes place on Catalina island, the Margaritaville of Los Angeles. Connelly's characters are fantastic, his stories are meticulously real while still being tense, mysterious, surprising. I might have said before, but he's the paradigm of a writer NOT giving in to success, putting all his skill into each new novel. Hurry up and write another.

A new series from Michael Connelly and thankfully the standard is up to his usual excellent story plotting and telling, this time with a brand new set of characters. Set on the island of Catalina where LA county sheriff detective Stilwell has been exiled after beimg somewhat controversially booted off a homicide case on the mainland. Catalina is where detectives who step out of line are demoted to. A low key assignment where drunk and disorderly tourists are the height of excitement in the job, but when Stilwell gets a report of a female Jane Doe being discovered by a diver off the coast of the island his old instincts kick into gear as he tries to grapple with solving the crime and dealing with superiors from the mainland who maintain it is a job for them. I really enjoyed this one. It took me a little while to get into it as I got a feel for the setting and also Stilwell but once I had I was all in. As ever with Connellys books the structure and storytelling is top notch. Throw in a very believable love interest you’ve got a series that has huge potential. I really hope we get a few more Stilwell books as this one was excellent. Many thanks to the publisher for the ARC through Netgalley.

Nightshade is a fantastic suspense story. From the meaning of the title to the characters and settings, Michael Connelly's new book, Nightshade, is nothing short of brilliant. Stilwell is a great new protagonist, and while he has some stubbornness that evokes Bosch, Haller, and Ballard, he is a great, original creation. I don't want to give spoilers, but the author really puts his readers in the middle of the action. I've never been to Catalina, but I felt the atmosphere, got the feel, and practically smelled the saltwater and tasted the food. The characters are very well drawn, and the plot machinations are unexpected and very complex. The story moves well, and there is no downtime. But the book wasn't paced too fast, it was jammed with taut suspense that kept me wanting more. The denouement was satisfying, and I'd read another Stilwell for sure. Aside from a lot of (relevant) profanity, I would say this is one of the best thrillers I've read. But with Michael Connelly books, most reads are among the best. Thanks to this author for being one of the best writers going today.

There are some VERY weird reviews here. Linden - (LOL! It's a new series, so of course there were "characters introduced initially." Connolly explains your unfamiliar boating terms quite well, as Stilwell is not a sailor. "Horrifying mutilation" of the Buffalo didn't even describe it other than mentioning that the perp cut its head off. But you're OK with the description of shooting the bad guy in the head, above his eyebrow.) And there are predictable reviews who want the same old characters the same old way - YAWN! I LOVE the new characters and Catalina as a key setting. I wondered how much could be done with the island, but Connolly jumps to locales on the mainland woven into the storyline, so I think he can stretch Catalina out for a while, and I'm very glad for that. Great Connolly writing with new characters, and a new locale but not too far away from Los Angeles. I was thrilled with book. - Harry's jazz mentor

So freaking good!!!

Review to come

Very fast reading. A good mystery.

THIS WAS THE BEST JAMES PATTERSON BOOK I HAVE EVER REDAD I'M NOT KIDDING. I loved the way he wrote each character's stories. Ok but can we talk about how M. Bennett is literally one of the best detectives of all of Patterson book, omg I loved his a Brett's relation shop it was so Cute. Daniel Ott was so annoying and sexisf but SUCH A calculated and smart killer except when he got sloppy later on when he killed that guy and that girl outside their apartment, like how could he get triggered by such small comments ppl make, imagine there are actually killer alike this, how jarring. I LOVED BENNETS family, and him and Mary Catherine are such goals their bike riding parts are so cute and they way they care for each of their children is just amazing. OMG when Brian hugged him at the end I was gonna cry it was so emotional and so cute and when brett came to his wedding 🥺🥺🥺🥺that wa sso cute. I hated that because of Daniels stupid actions Brett is now handicapped, he had so much potential working alongside Bennett, but I guess he can get a new career I WAS SO SCARED WHEN OTT WAS CONSIDERING THAT HE WOULD KILL MARY CATHERINE, IM GLAD HE DISSMISSED THAT IDEA. I wish macy would have got killed, he's that person in life who thinks they are better than everyone else and thinks everyone likes them but it's the opposite, he should actually get off his high horse. Harry Grimson-i literally love him, I swear if I don't get a boss like this, that would be so disappointing, he's literally SUCH A baddie. It was so funny when Bennett was saying he liked Allan and then he did a 180 and said he was a little *bleep*. Ugh that made me laugh. Imagine having 12 people in ur house tho, u would never gte lonely itd be so annoying low key tho. AND YA when Jane's brother forced Allan to call Jane so that she could break up with HIM that's was such an adorable monent, I low-key wish Brian beat Allan up tho. Overall my fav characters when bennet hollis, Grimson and Brian, so basicaly most of the characters

The title was strange for this book, and frustrated me somewhat. But not a big deal. Just seemed like a loop thrown in just because. But I enjoyed the series. I feel as if I marathoned Criminal Minds or CSI. I enjoyed the continuous thread of Michael Bennet and his family, and by the third book I was used to hearing the bad guys minds work as well. I wanted to read a series this summer and while I stumbled into this one thanks to my sister I'm glad I did so.

By far, my favorite James Patterson series...Love the characters, stories and philosophy of life...With wedding bells nearing for Bennett and Mary Catherine, a serial killer & a copycat are targeting young women in NYC...Negotiated with the usual professionalism of Bennett and the NYPD...Ending feels to be a setup for a sequel in which the murderer may be back to threaten the family!!!

I have read every one of the Michael Bennett series. One is better than the next. The Russian was excellent and there was a real twist at the end.

A series of gruesome murders in New York City has Michael Bennett angry -- but when he identifies similar cases in Atlanta and San Francisco, his feelings escalate into all-out alarm. All of the victims are young women. And each one is killed in a horrifyingly distinct fashion. In the midst of such devastating loss of life, Bennett's longtime love, Mary Catherine, is soon to become his bride. As Bennett toils to connect the cases, the killer strikes again, adding to his criminal signature an ability to evade detection. Just when New York's top investigator should be donning his wedding finery, he may be stepping into a diabolical trap

I really enjoy reading James Patterson’s books. Especially with Michael Bennett NYPD detective. It took him some time to find out who the serial killer was that was killing women only and the killer’s manner of killing these women was very horrific! And in Bennet ‘s home life was his only way to forget since he has 10 children and his upcoming wedding. Going home was a gift that he cherished at least till another day when he would devote his time to catch the killer. Which he did!! I highly recommend this book, The Russian!!

I loved this book. This is an author that I never hesitate to pick up. This is one of my favorites yet by him. This is a well written story that has characters that bring twists and turns to a new level for me. I love the character MIchael Bennett. He is a strong take no crap detective that brings the story to life I highly recommend this book and this author.

Ok, I'm on a roll! I just can't stop reading this Detective Michael Bennett Series!!! This book is about a serial killer in NY City Michael Bennett & his partner are trying to catch. The Russian is full of action & will keep you on the edge of your seat! Michael & Mary Catherine are also preparing for their wedding.

Another great in this series. James O. Born and Patterson have used that magic and left me waiting for the next. I especially liked the wrap up...not drawn out but wow looks like detective Bennett has a new nemesis.

Fast paced thriller This one has Michael Bennett investigating a serial killer who has committed murders across the country. The investigation is fast paced and surprisingly twisted. There is some family storyline intertwined but not too much that it takes away from the mystery. You know who the killer and are privy to his private thoughts. There's still a twist in the end to keep you guessing. This was a good read.

I decided a long time that James Patterson is like Stephen King in that both are either really good or really bad. This book is the best JP book that I’ve read in a long time. The story was well written and I really liked it.

Love the character of Michael Bennett! Great story and love hearing how his 10 kids are growing up. Father Seamus finally married him and Mary Catherine, great love story. “Little Michael Bennett “ got married 💜

Another cracking good read As always the pace is kept up on the crime story, whilst giving a breather with the family storyline. Michael Bennett is one of my favourite book cops, who's stories combining his home and work are always enjoyable and it's good to see a series that combines the humanity of a cops family with the fast pace of a good criminal investigation.

I very much enjoy the characters in some of James Patterson’s series. This series is one. While not a “Wow! That was amazing. “ book, it was a good story that I enjoyed nonetheless.

Enjoyable, fast paced read!

Loving this book so far. We're listening to the audiobook. The Michael Bennett series is one of my favorites. Looking forward to the remainder.

I thoroughly enjoyed the audiobook read by Ari Fliakos.

"There's always something just out of reach. . . . Everyone chasing the thing they don't have. Going mad until they get it." My favorite Thursday Murder Club to date, The Last Devil to Die gave me so many emotions and a riveting mystery to boot. In this installment, murder hits close to home when a friend of Stephen's is killed. With their trademark forthrightness and humor, Joyce, Elizabeth, Ron, and Ibrahim stick their noses where they don't belong, and are soon caught up in the world of heroine dealers, antiques, and fake art. I usually try to bam my way through murder mysteries like nobody's business. After all, I want to pick up clues as fast as I can, put it all together, and get to the whodunnit pronto. But this series feels like one to savor, and this installment is especially so. I read it slowly, immersing myself in these characters who over the course of four books now feel like friends rather than just characters on a page. This was an entertaining mystery, with more chaos and mayhem (hehe) than you'd expect old people to get themselves into. We see Joyce really come into her own here, stepping in for Elizabeth who is otherwise indisposed. I feel like all the side characters were particularly charming, and I even started to like Connie if you can believe it. We also have a little side mystery going on to catch an online scammer, just to add a bit of extra zing to the whole thing. I can't talk about the series without talking about its humor, and that's on full display here. Humor is subjective, and what one reader finds funny may not click with another. But for me, it completely works. Richard Osman has this gentle way of poking fun at the folly of human nature and growing old. It's cheeky and lighthearted, and it never comes at the expense of the characters' humanity. I have to warn you though, this book feels like the series' most intimate and emotional one yet, so get the tissues ready. Osman doesn't shy away from talking about growing old and dying. In fact, couched in all that humor and sleuthing is the ever-present specter of death coming for everyone, especially when you are of a certain old age. And yet, reading about these four friends who take life by the horns when it would've been much easier to just coast and fade out is so inspiring and invigorating. As Richard Osman puts it wisely via Joyce, "The urgency of old age. There's nothing that makes you feel more alive than the certainty of death." I suspect I come back to this series again and again because it fills me with hope that I can still have a life worth living when I reach the twilight of my years. To have it be filled with friendship and intrigue and purpose, what more could I ask for? I am a little bummed that Richard Osman is taking a break from this series to start another one (though I'm excited to see what he comes up with). Visiting these septuagenarians has become a highlight of my fall every year. But don't worry, for whenever the next book comes out, I'll be right here waiting to be reunited with my old friends. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: #1. The Thursday Murder Club #2. The Man Who Died Twice #3. The Bullet That Missed We Solve Murders ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

Honestly Richard... how dare you?

The Last Devil to Die by Richard Osman is Book #4 in this Cozy Mystery Series! The Thursday Murder Club is back... It's Boxing Day lunch at Cooper's Chase, a retirement village in South East England, where resident septuagenarians Elizabeth, Ron, Ibrahim, and Joyce learn about the murder of antiques dealer, Kuldesh Sharma, who also happens to be a friend of Stephen, Elizabeth's husband. The pensioners take an immediate interest in the details of Sharma's execution-style murder and initiate an investigation of their own... The Last Devil to Die is a Cozy Mystery I devoured in two big gulps. It's full of eye-opening perspectives into the antiques business, drug-smuggling, fine-art fraud, and on-line romance fraud. But who am I kidding? I'm here for the four main characters in this series, their comradery and banter, along with Joyce's journal entries that keep me listening time and time again. I did crave a bit more of Joyce's loyal pooch Alan, but that's just the dog-lover in me chiming in. While previous books in the Thursday Murder Club series have been full of action and crowded with characters, it becomes noticeably apparent early on that this book feels different with its quieter, softer tone, fewer characters, and an unexpected emotional punch. With that said, it's a topic that's handled in a most thoughtful and compassionate way by the author. When an emotional door opens up for one topic, it segues into another topic that sheds light on a key character in this series. Book #4 feels like an unanticipated shift in the Thursday Murder Club. It's evolving and surprising the reader yet keeping the core of the series fresh and ever-changing. The Last Devil to Die audiobook narrator Fiona Shaw does another remarkable job with her voicing skills. She's one of the reasons I've made this format my preference for this series. Be sure to listen to the conversation between Osman and Shaw at the end of the audio for the author's thoughts about why he's planning to do less TV and more writing in the near future. I'm always sad when I get to the end of another book in the Thursday Murder Club series but I know there's more to come from these septuagenarians. It may be a bit longer wait this time around for Book #5 but I'll be here for it when it's published. I highly recommend The Last Devil to Die to those readers who enjoy a Cozy Mystery with a solid group of main characters! 5⭐

4.5 shiny stars for book #4 in The Thursday Murder Club series. I have enjoyed all the books in this series so far and that includes the newest addition, The Last Devil to Die. The whole gang, Elizabeth, Joyce, Ron and Ibrahim, are back and ready to spring into action if they are needed. Each one of these characters have become like an old friend. Their life at Cooper’s Chase retirement community has been anything but mundane or dull. I look forward to each new book so I can catch up with all their new challenges, escapades and discoveries. DCI Chris Hudson and Donna were determined to keep the members of the Thursday Murder Club out of their current murder investigation this time but that was easier said than done. When Elizabeth, Joyce, Ron and Ibrahim learned about the murder of Stephan’s old friend, Kuldesh Sharma, eighty year old antique dealer, they plunged right into trying to find out who had murdered him and why. As they involved themselves in this murder mystery, they were drawn into the dangerous world of drug dealers, art forgery and antiques. In addition to their involvement in the murder of Kuldesh, Elizabeth, Joyce, Ron and Ibrahim were also trying to help a rather new member of their community who had been lured into an on-line romance scam. Their friend had been blindsided by the scam. He had been tricked into believing that the romance was real and into sending a significant amount of money to the woman involved. Working simultaneously on both cases, the puzzle pieces to both cases began to come together and slowly revealed the answers and solutions that Elizabeth, Joyce, Ron and Ibrahim were trying to uncover. The Last Devil to Die explored the effects of dementia on the person that was riddled with it, the family member who had to watch the disease as it progressed and stole the life of that person who was slipping away and on the friends that cared very much. This part of The Last Devil to Die broke my heart. It was done in a very realistic yet sensitive way. There were many different elements that were included in The Last Devil to Die. It touched upon drugs, art forgery, scams on the elderly, loss, multiple deaths and antiques. I really enjoyed Joyce’s ability to rise to the occasion when her friends needed her to. Joyce’s journal entries continued to amuse me and even surprise me. I listened to the audiobook of The Last Devil to Die that was narrated by Fiona Shaw. She did an incredible job distinguishing and alternating between characters. The interview at the end of the audiobook with Richard Osman and Fiona Shaw was well worth listening to. I can’t wait to read the next installment of the Thursday Murder Club. Thankfully, there will be a next one, even if it may be a bit longer to wait for. I really enjoyed listening to The Last Devil to Die by Richard Osman and highly recommend it.

MY FAVOURITE BOOK OF 2023!! Goodreads Choice Awards vlog: https://youtu.be/orDJrxESZzs

5★ “The Thursday Murder Club don’t have to wear uniforms, or salute buffoons, or worry about the Police and Criminal Evidence Act, do they? They get results, and Donna reasons that if she were allowed to plant drugs, point guns, fake deaths and poison suspects, she would probably get results too.” The core group of four seniors who comprise the Thursday Murder Club (so-called because it schedules meetings in one of Cooper Chase Village’s rooms for Thursdays), but the club’s extended family includes cops (like Donna), a Polish strongman, and others. Elizabeth is the acknowledged leader, being a retired spy, while Joyce is the diarist, who takes notes, chatters a lot, dithers, bakes, and shares diary entries with us in chapters of her own. She misses her late husband, and buries herself in daytime TV. She does love a handsome fellow. “Elizabeth more and more is getting the hang of Joyce’s type, and ‘anyone plausibly handsome’ seems to cover it. ‘He looks like a soap-opera villain,’ was Ron’s take, and Elizabeth was happy to accept his word on the matter.” Ron is a retired unionist and political animal. His son is a well-known boxer, and Ron still has a reputation as a fighter. He would know some real villains, and he likes to be prepared for the worst. After all, their old friend Kuldesh had just been murdered. “The journey home from the funeral had been full of theories. Rival drugs gangs, blackmailers. Ron, as always, wondering if the Mafia might be involved.” Ibrahim, the psychiatrist, is an intelligent educated man (who likes everyone to acknowledge that). A new man, Bob, is helping the group try to catch an internet romance scammer, but somehow, Ron has cornered Bob to rant about the evil of computers “‘and that’s even before I get started on Facebook’” Ibrahim eventually steps in, and Ron realises he’s been rabbiting on to a man who looks both frightened and bored. “ ‘Sorry, Bob,’ says Ron. ‘Wear my heart on my sleeve sometimes.’ ‘Not at all,’ says Bob. ‘Plenty of food for thought. And I will certainly pass your feedback on to someone at IBM should that opportunity arise.’ ‘You will learn fairly quickly, Bob, that you don’t need to be polite with Ron,’ says Ibrahim. ‘It took me around a week to figure that out.’ Bob nods. ‘Also, he is easy to distract. If you ever feel that Ron has gone off at a tangent, which on occasion he does, then a simple “Did you see the match?” or “Did you see the fight?” works as a reset button.’ ‘How Chelsea won that one, I’ll never know,’ says Ron, shaking his head. ‘Daylight robbery.’ ‘To work, then, gentlemen,’ says Ibrahim.” Ron has been reset. Ibrahim’s particular role in this is as a conduit to Connie, a Crime Queen he visits in prison for therapy sessions. Hers or his? It isn’t always clear. She runs much of the underworld from her cell, so Ibrahim takes advantage of their sessions to sound her out about their case. An antique box full of a kg of heroin has gone missing after being delivered to Kuldesh, the old antique dealer friend of the Club whose funeral they just attended. They swap information, and as with the previous books in the series, they meet other players who seem to be connected, there are more murders, more people I think may have done it, and meanwhile, the romance scammer case gets interesting. Joyce is coming up with some good schemes in this one, and Elizabeth seems proud of her pal’s rapid progress on becoming a sleuth. Joyce puts her natural cover as a silly, talkative old lady to good use, because who would suspect her capable of subterfuge? It is not all fun and games, though, because our beloved characters are elderly, stiff and sore and becoming weaker. There is great affection and understanding between them all, so when one is having a hard time of things, the others pick up the slack. Osman writes with wonderful sensitivity about these old people, who have already been through so much and have such loss in their lives. He never gets maudlin, but he can certainly tug the heartstrings when he lets us share their sadness. I was so pleased to see at the end that he says he promises to return to the Club one day. I’m sure I’m not alone in looking forward to another visit. I think this is the best yet. The series - I've enjoyed them all. My review of The Thursday Murder Club My review of The Man Who Died Twice (#2) My review of The Bullet That Missed (#3) My review of The Last Devil to Die (#4)

This book made me cry!!! If you also read this series then I am sure you can guess why 😣. The fourth book involving my favorite ‘oldie but goodie’ gang was phenomenal! I laughed, I cried and I used my brain to try and solve the crimes 🤣. All while hoping it this isn’t the end for my favorite crime fighting crew. I don’t know what I would do if I can read about the shenanigans Joyce, Ron, Elizabeth, and Ibrahim get into! Side note: After I finished I did some googling and there is hope for a fifth book coming out in 2025 🥰

Another solid winner in The Thursday Murder Club series. I knew going in that this particular adventure could've been the last in the series, but thank goodness that Richard Osman said he will return to these characters again. The way all the main players in this novel interact with each other flows so smoothly and I love to see all the new exploits they each get up to. There is also a bit of sadness in this one as well, but it is handled with great care and does move the plot along for future stories. Such a great concept, executed wonderfully! Recommended as always.

2025 reread : TEARS SHED EVERY SINGLE DAMN TIME 2024 reread : reading this after back to back rereads of the previous books really makes this book so much more gut punching and devastating :’( the character work is just exquisite this book is honestly perfect; funny, twisty and most importantly, provides a huge emotional impact, my favourite old people and murder club always 💜

You know that the author can write great characters that are humorous, he can certainly write funny, he knows where the jokes can be inserted to make you smile and laugh but what I didn’t anticipate is the writer’s way of dissecting pain and sorrow and put it in wonderful words for us to read. So here’s the anticipated effect, in one chapter you are sobbing and in another you are laughing very hard, you would be looked at as unstable but that’s this book for you. So you are warned, no reading in public places or all the seats next to you will be vacated. You can tell that these four pensioners are living full time rent free in Osman’s head. He has created wonderful characters with voices that are distinct and original. The chapters as always short, with a lot of hints to keep you guessing way until the end. There are many subplots that are equally interesting than the main plot and there is the cherry on top which is Joyce’s diary. The bonus pages about How to Complain also by Joyce were a hoot. By far, this is the best book of the series. Having read the entire series so far, it needs to be repeated that the books need to be read in order and I cannot wait for the next installment but I guess it will have to wait a little bit longer, Osman is bringing a new series that promises to be very good. According to him is The Da Vinci Code with elements of Thursday Murder Club..Ohh (a la Joyce). This series is making its debut before the release of Thursday Murder Club 5.

Back to 5 stars! I mean, book 3 was still 4 stars, but YAY! Back to 5! Super excited to have gotten to read an ARC from Netgalley and it was SO worth it! The gang is back, with more friends in the mix, more feels, just as fun and funny as ever. I tried to read it slowly and savor it, but it's just so hard to do.

I was extremely excited to get this book last week after pre-ordering it many months ago when it first came on to pre-order. It’s no secret that I have loved all three of Richard’s previous books. I find the characters simply charming and joyful which is a perfect balance to some intense mystery solving. I can honestly say, this is the BEST ONE YET! I still have a soft spot for Joyce. She is a fantastic character so full of life, despite her age - she reminds me of my own grandmother who has sadly passed. But for a bunch of elderly people they sure do have their brains switched on and they don’t miss a trick. She really brings life to the book for me. And I particularly love the chapters written by Joyce, they are filled with classic British humour! Of all the books, I found this one the easiest to follow; in the previous three I got a bit lost. However, it is still a complex case they are dealing with, despite being a group of elderly folk. Although what seems complex on the surface may turn out to be really quite simple in the end…an act of love? An act of free will? A life taken too soon? As Elizabeth says, who will survive the week?… In this 4th instalment of the series we are reminded how geriatric the members of the Thursday Murder Club are; some more than others. There is a certain sadness to it, but it is also very clear how special and loved these character are. I really did enjoy everything about this book and can’t wait to read what Richard Osman is working on next!

A new Thursday Murder Club book always makes me happy. This the 4th book in this fun series and ai have grown quite attached to this gang of elderly sleuths. When I get old I want to move to Coopers Chase and solve murders too. It is Christmas time and the gang are all celebrating in their own ways. Here’s to no murders next year…. Well that isn’t going to happen is it? They soon discover that an old friend got himself caught up in a dangerous situation and has been murdered. And the parcel he was guarding is missing…and many many people are looking for it. Enter the Thursday Murder Club. Richard Osman sure knows how to tug at the heartstrings. This is one emotional book. But it is also funny, and addictive and a joy to read. I am hoping my knee will have healed enough for me to go and see Richard when he comes to Sydney in November. I am a big fan, not only of his books, but I love Game Night and miss him on Pointless. Big thanks to Penguin Books Australia for sending me a copy of this book to read. I love that the book is purple, never enough purple covers in the world!

4.5 stars. Have tissues ready! Great addition to the series.

4.5 stars rounded up. I just spent 20 minutes sobbing my heart out over this. The plot is about some smuggled heroin that somehow enters the world of the Thursday Murder Club, however the real heart of the story is about Elizabeth, Stephen and the decline that occurs with dementia. It's a quiet, sensitive and deeply moving portrayal of an illness that terrifies me and can quickly grip the most active and intelligent of minds without prejudice. To see Elizabeth deal with this, and by extension her friends in the Murder Club, has been a journey we've glimpsed at in previous books in the series but it really takes hold here. Osman manages to make the reader care so deeply for these characters that when one of their own is hit with something no one can truly fight, it's utterly heartbreaking to see unfold. It's brilliant writing and wonderful character development. Add in a dog called Alan, Computer Bob and Joyce finding a new recipe for Battenberg and I was truly captivated from beginning to end. This drops half a star simply for the pacing, which at times does feel a little slow. However overall I'm ride or die for the Thursday Murder Club.

THE LAST DEVIL TO DIE is the fourth instalment in the Thursday Murder Club series and, to my mind, the best in the series—although I have given five stars to every book in this series. The novel starts with the murder of Kuldesh Sharma, one of the many friends of Elizabeth and Stephen, an antique dealer we briefly met earlier in the series. For me, there was no mystery. Almost from the beginning I knew why Sharma had been killed and by whom. Whether this was just a lucky guess, or—more probably—the consequence of having read so many mysteries wherein the slightest hint is enough to reveal the overall plot, I simply knew who had shot him and why. And it didn’t make any difference. Mysteries/thrillers are enjoyable to read when they keep you interested in how the characters in the story will unravel the riddle. It doesn’t matter one iota if the reader is able to solve it first. Nothing turns me off more than a blurb that contains the phrase “a twist you won’t see coming”. Generally, I do foresee the twist miles in advance, and when I don’t, it generally means that the story is boring, and the twist uninteresting. What is important in THE LAST DEVIL TO DIE is not “whodunnit” or “whydunit”, but the interaction among the characters who are trying to solve the crime: *Elizabeth—ex M16 officer, now retired; *Joyce—a retired nurse, who writes a diary of the group’s maneuvers; *Ibrahim—a retired psychiatrist, still practicing; *Ron—ex-union leader, also now retired. Plus, the others who have joined the original four members of the Thursday Murder Club: Stephen, Elizabeth’s husband who has Alzheimer’s; Bogdan, a handyman who seems to be able to do anything; Donna and Chris, police officers; Viktor, a retired KGB officer, who “went the rounds” with Elizabeth in the old days, Connie Johnson, former cocaine dealer now imprisoned and under the psychiatric care of Ibrahim; and two new members of the group—Computer Bob a retired IT specialist who brings his special skills to the group, and Meryvn, who has love problems. That’s a lot to keep straight, but it is easy for those who have read the earlier books in the series. What makes this one so special is that in addition to the farcical antics, there are some serious questions for the group to tackle. First, Stephen’s dementia has deteriorated to such an extent that Elizabeth must make some serious decisions. She is finally going to let him go. She should have done it months ago, and she knows that, but, while you have something to cling to, you cling on. Second, simply by participating in the Thursday Murder Club, Joyce has changed, matured. “I’m not sure I like the new you,” says Ron. “Can we have Joyce back?” This is what is important: Coopers Chase..[is]..always in motion. And that motion is aging, and death, and love, and grief, and final snatched moments and opportunities grasped. The urgency of old age. There’s nothing that makes you feel more alive than the certainty of death. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ My reviews for other books in this series: The Thursday Murder Club (Thursday Murder Club #1) The Man Who Died Twice (Thursday Murder Club #2) The Bullet That Missed (Thursday Murder Club #3) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A review of my MOST anticipated read of the year 🤩 Thank you, Viking Books, for the gifted copy of The Last Devil to Die {partner} Genre: Mystery Format: 📖 Pub Date: 9.19.2023 Star Rating: ☆☆☆☆☆ “We think time travels forward, marches on in a straight line, and so we hurry alongside it to keep up. Hurry, hurry, mustn’t fall behind. But it doesn’t, you see. Time just swirls around us. Everything is always present. The things we’ve done, the people we’ve loved, the people we’ve hurt, they’re all still here.” It’s no secret that the Thursday Murder Club series is my favorite series (probably of all time). And when people ask me why? Why do I love a series about four characters living in a retirement community? The answer is simple - because they feel like friends. Ron, Elizabeth, Ibrahim, and Joyce (even Bogdan, Donna, and Chris) have become my friends. I’ve not encountered a book that can keep me on the edge of my seat, laughing and then crying in one breath, but somehow, this series does just that. The newest book in the series, The Last Devil to Die, was everything I hoped it would be. It felt much heavier than all of the books, and at one point, I couldn’t read because I was crying so hard, but it was still the most comforting read of all the books I’ve read. I’ll never be able to get enough of Cooper’s Chase. There’s a little something for everyone in the pages of the Thursday Murder Club. Richard Osman is one of the most talented writers, and I can’t wait to see what he comes up with next - even if it means I have to wait a little while to be reunited with my friends. But Osman has promised to continue the series; it’s just taking a short break. In the meantime, I can’t recommend reading this series enough, no matter how hard I try to write a review that does TMC justice. I’ve read and listened to all four books, and you can’t go wrong with either format. ______ Follow me on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/thebookend.... Follow me on Goodreads: https://www.goodreads.com/thebookendd... Follow me on StoryGraph: https://app.thestorygraph.com/profile...

Who knew that I would love a series about Septuagenarians/Octogenarians solving crimes? For the full effect of the story you will need to read all prior books before this one. There are books that stick with you, I think this series will be that for me. All of us are journeying through this life to a time, if we are lucky, that our body will ache and not work like we wanted, we will attend more funerals than weddings as our peers pass and if we are very lucky, we will find something like Cooper’s Case and the people who live there, to have in our lives at that time. The brilliance of this series isn’t in the mysteries themselves. Those are always fun and interesting, don’t get me wrong, but it is in the set of characters we are with for the journey. Elizabeth, once MI6 or something equally secretive, is usually the ringleader of the Thursday murder club. She has so very personal stuff happening with her husband Steven and so she has taken a step back in this latest murder mystery involving the death of Kuldesh, of a former friend of Steven, over a box or heroine. Joyce new this time was coming and has been preparing to channel Elizabeth and take the reigns so to speak. “Well, I got Russian nuclear secrets out of the KGB, I think I can probably handle Fairhaven Council. I knew she was wrong, however, and it was nice to see it proved.” I still love Joyce and all of her musings in her diary are she talks about her life, friends at Cooper’s Case, her daughter and the mystery they are currently working on. Joyce could easily be any of our grandmothers who have lived one life and are now onto another. That is beauty of everyone at Cooper’s Case is that they lived these full lives and now without jobs and young families to take up their time they have found new families of a sort in each other. People who help with some of the loneliness of getting older. “There is only so much reading you can do, so many cups of tea you can make, before the loneliness crowds in around you. You breathe it in, you cry it out, and the clock ticks slowly, slowly, until you are allowed to sleep.” Along the way in this new twisted mystery, we get to interact with some of our other favorite characters like Donna, Bogdan and Chris as our favorite Thursday Murder club members run around and tap dance on all things legal to get to bottom of the who dun it. I think it is so much fun to watch them brush aside the social taboos because let’s face it when you are 70/80 who cares anymore. “Jesus, Dad,’ says Jason, laughing. ‘Of course it’d be Ibrahim. You and your mates are starting drug wars now. I used to prefer it when you wrote letters to the council complaining about the bins.” It wouldn’t be a Thursday murder club book if there weren’t a few side issues happening. Ibrahim visiting Connie the cocaine dealer in prison is one very interesting aspect of this book. Connie still might want to kill Ron but, she is in therapy so maybe she won’t, it is still being decided. There is a new resident at Cooper’s Case and Joyce tried to flirt with him but he seems to be embroiled in an online romance scam so the team has taken it on to save Bob’s money if not his heart. But the true heart of this story was Elizabeth and Steven. They are a cute couple now, even while he is being ravaged by dementia, but you can tell that when he had all his wits about him, they must have been a couple in a relationship everyone dreams of having. This part of the story was handled so well and I wept for them and the decisions they had to make for each other. “I don’t know why we’re on this earth,” says Stephen. “Truly I don’t. But if I wanted to find the answer, I would begin with how much I love you.” Another great story where most people get their dues in unusual ways, the crime is solved and some of the side situations sort themselves out very interestingly. Always at the end of these stories I’m almost sad I’m leaving my friends at Cooper’s case. But one day there will be more stories and so until they every person I see in their 70s/80s I will wonder, what kind of life have they led and maybe even ask for a story or two as we forget in all of our hustle and bustle that some of these people have lived and are living extraordinary lives if we just took a few minutes to really look at them.

4.5 stars I was so pleasantly surprised with this one! I'm not normally one who likes more fiction-leaning books over romance, but this was definitely one that was more fiction-heavy for Nora, but I was still hooked! I really loved how the beginning hooked me straight away, but that I also got so invested in the heroine and her life. She was so interesting and it was fun watching her navigating life as a teen actor, then going to college, and then finding her passion. There was a looming stalker you know would come into play at some point, and you knew that she'd have a romance that didn't actually flesh out until the last 20ish% of the book, but I was invested! The ending did slow down a bit too much for me, which is why this wasn't a full five stars, but I really enjoyed this story!

4.5 stars An early trauma changes the course of one family’s trajectory in Hideaway—the latest domestic drama from author Nora Roberts. Nine-year-old Caitlyn (Cate) Sullivan came from a long line of Hollywood royalty, a family who adored her. But while at the family home in Big Sur, California, Cate was abducted while she and her cousins played hide-and-seek. Cate was no delicate flower, however. She was smart, resourceful and quick thinking, managing to escape her captors and finding refuge in a nearby farmhouse. There she collided with a young Dillon Cooper and his family, who gave her a safe space and beckoned for help. That terrifying night would shape the course of all their lives—Cate, her family, the Coopers, and those involved—and years later, would come to a final, frightening culmination. We follow Cate throughout the years, as she fled to Ireland with her grandmother to find comfort, to New York to explore her identity and seek new opportunities, and eventually back to Los Angeles and Big Sur, to confront the memories that haunted her since childhood. But wherever she went, those whose sought revenge followed, threatening to derail her life once again. Because the novel takes place over the course of many years, we really get to know Cate, Dillon, the Sullivans, and the Coopers. The characters come alive vividly through Roberts’ expert hand, making it easy to feel connected to them. The narrative had echoes of Come Sundown, where we have runway to see how characters evolve over time as Roberts simultaneously explores the deep scars of emotional trauma. This is a story about the families we’re born into and the families that are forged. About betrayal, vengeance and love. And in true (and wonderful) Nora Roberts fashion, it’s a story brimming with ratcheting suspense and heartwarming romance. Hideaway is another binge-worthy hit by an author who always delivers.

A very good read. Cate is a young eight year old daughter of a famous movie star family. She is kidnapped at the age of eight and finds out her mother has something to do with it. This is a great novel of a loving generation of family members who love and care for each other. The only exclusion is Cate's mother who is a money hungry, cheating, self centered and want to be actress. As Cate gets older she wants to be in acting like her family and gets several parts which she is very good at. After her mother's release from prison she tries everything she can to ruin Cate's career and brings Cate such unhappiness. All she wants to do is get away from her mother so she moves to New York to live with her grandmother who is an actress. After a long period of unhappiness and a failed relationship she does finds her calling as a voice over. She leaves New York and goes back to her live with her Grandpa and kind of watch over him. She finds love and happiness at the end. Very good story that keeps you reading.

Suspense and romance wrapped up in a finding yourself novel that kept my interest. The whole family was super interesting - each family member had its own share of secrets and mystery..the kind of person you want as a friend and the type of person you want to spend more time with. I wound up checking this book out and reading it again, still love the way that Nora Roberts develops the characters. Cate is a complex character! Definitely enjoyed even the second time around!!!

Hideaway is about family, greed, jealousy, love and trust. Nine-year-old Caitlyn Sullivan was enjoying a party at her Great Grandfathers estate when an incident happened to Caitlyn that changed her beliefs and faith in people around her. When Caitlyn turned seventeen, she realises that running away from her past is not working and she needs to return to her family home. However, for Caitlyn returning home will change her life forever. The readers of Hideaway will continue to follow Caitlyn Sullivan to find out what happens. Hideaway is another fantastic book by Nora Roberts. On a cold raining day I started to read Hidaway and forgot about the world around me. I was sad when I read the last word of this book. I love Nora Roberts portrayal of her characters and the way they intertwine with each other throughout this book. Hideaway is well written and researched by Nora Roberts. I like Nora Roberts description of the settings of Hideaway that allowed me to imagine being part of the plot of this book. The readers of Hideaway will learn about the role of voice over artist. Also, the readers of Hideaway will learn about running a small ranch in California. I recommend this book.

“If love isn’t stronger than pride, it isn’t love.”

On television and in movies, actors are pretend heroes in make-believe stories. But in HIDEAWAY, Nora Roberts’ new suspense novel, a young actress takes on the role of a true heroine in her own real-life drama. Set against the glamorous backdrop of old Hollywood intrigue, the story centers on a multi-generational family legacy. The Sullivans are a prominent and successful film industry dynasty, admired and loved by their fans. When the patriarch Liam Sullivan dies, the family reunites for a celebration of his life at their Big Sur estate. But as his wife Rosemary, their children, his grandchildren and his great-grandchildren mourn his passing, young Caitlyn Sullivan is kidnapped. The family is in a state of shock and dismay. How? Why? While her loved ones scramble to meet the kidnapper’s demands, smart and capable Cate escapes. Exhausted, scared and injured, she makes her way to a nearby house where a young boy resides with his mother and grandmother. The Coopers are quick to help with food and first aid. Soon Cate’s father and the police arrive, and as she tells her story, it becomes clear that her abductors had inside help. Shockingly, the evidence points to her mother. With Cate’s mother and her accomplices in jail, her father and great-grandmother decide that a change of scenery is necessary. They travel together to the Sullivan ancestral homeland of Ireland, a place of recovery and healing for the young girl. When she and her father return to Big Sur, Cate continues in the family tradition and auditions for a part in a movie. She begins filming and makes new friends, but her life is never far from the spotlight of the press. Her name and her past follow her everywhere. And when her mother is paroled from jail, Cate’s life becomes unbearable. An encounter with her mother at a restaurant where Cate is dining brings back the trauma of the kidnapping, and she decides to move to New York City and start over again. But for Cate, the past is never far enough from the present. Soon she begins to receive threatening phone calls, and a boyfriend is attacked in a random assault. A true survivor, Cate does her best to move on, embracing all the new opportunities that come her way. As her grandfather always said, “Life is a series of turns.” Eventually, life turns Cate back toward California, and she returns to Big Sur. A remodeled guest house that includes a studio for her voice work becomes her new home. She revisits the one place that has always offered her serenity and kindness in her life --- the Cooper home. They still live in the same house, and the boy, Dillon, has grown up to be an outstanding and attractive young man. Cate begins to hope that the past is finally behind her and that love may be in her future. However, the seeds of vengeance have had time to grow, and danger lurks in the shadows. It won’t be long before Cate’s life is upended once again. HIDEAWAY delivers a story of family love and endurance in the face of trauma, tragedy and life’s unexpected turns. Through the loss of innocence and betrayal, a heroine emerges, one with the strength and skill to rescue herself. This tale of individual resilience and hope despite difficult circumstances is especially powerful in today’s uncertain times. Reviewed by Jennifer McCord

When I first read the synopsis for Hideaway, I was immediately drawn back to Nora’s “Public Secrets” and “Genuine Lies” novels, simply because she takes us back to Hollywood. “Hideaway” brings a new realm of Hollywood to life with the profession of a voice-over artist. I personally believe Nora nailed it! Written in the same style as Shelter in Place, with the story beginning during childhood, we are taken through blocks of Cate’s life as she grows and matures, all while overcoming a tragedy from her young childhood. I have not enjoyed character development from Nora as mush as I did in “Hideaway” since she wrote romance series. First of all, I want an entire book devoted to the grand-patriarch, Liam Sullivan. His story is way too short, being an immigrant from Ireland and making his way to Hollywood. (Nora, PLEASE do a prequel...even if it’s just a novella. I want more!!). I laughed until I cried at some points (Cate’s audition for a minor role is hilarity at its best and young Dillon is a hoot!) and it’s nice to have a male that sits quietly in the background until the timing is right. And when he emerges, although protective, it’s subtle. (swoon!) The Sullivan family reminds me of the O’Hurley’s with a little more spunk! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ for character development, although I think it deserves a ten! I am a huge fan if these latest novels where Nora draws out her story’s over years. It helps with the character development. She had me drawn in so much I was crying by page 75. One scene is so well written I found myself reading faster and faster as the excitement built. The story moved quickly over the span of about 15 years, lingering just long enough at each major time in the story without becoming boring, and Nora expertly skips over a minor storyline or two that would have slowed the story down, but visits those stories in the present with ease and flow to the main storyline. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ A very high ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ rating for Hideaway! I cannot wait to hand-sell this book to my customers! Fans of Nora Roberts’ The O’Hurley series and Shelter in Place will throughly enjoy her latest book! Thank you to Marissa at St. Martin’s Press for the honor to read an Advanced Reader’s Copy in exchange for an honest review! Disclaimer: The ARC has the name Dillon Cooper, but publicity says Callan Cooper. All references to Dillon may change at the time of publication. (Personally, I hope it stays Dillon....he’s more a Dillon than a Callan.)

"Art is coincidence, Love is chaos." I really needed to read this book. It was perfect. I have no other words to describe this masterpiece. Like, what the hell was I doing all these years?? How had I never picked up a Fredrik book?!? Because honestly, this was so good. It hit me so hard, and it's the kind of book where you actually sit and contemplate, but it's also very easy to read and so enjoyable!! I'm so glad that this was my first book by him because it's the perfect book to judge him by. To be honest, I was a little hesitant about reading his books—I was excited, yes, but I was also scared because they are so well-loved, and everyone who reads his books ends up loving them. It's such a relief to love it as well. But honestly, it's such an effortless 5-star book for me because it just hooks you, grips you, and is sooo consuming. I will admit that the first 19% was slow, and it took me a little time to adjust to his writing style, but when I hit that mark and was fully comfortable with this book, I FLEW THROUGH IT! "I love you. I trust you.." I was reading this book like I normally read all other books (lol), but then there would come a point where I would stop and think, like, this is quite literally how most friendships go and is most likely how my friend group is going to be. It hurts so much to know that there will eventually come a point where we won’t be able to meet or hang out as we do now. All of us would be away in different places, and with the constraint of time and the burden of responsibilities, the interaction would be so limited, and we would just drift apart. And if that's not the case, we just don’t know how long we’re even going to live. To imagine a place without your friends—I honestly cannot. I hate this book for making me feel like that. Like?? There was no need to be that brutal, Fredrik. Also, this is easily my most highlighted ARC because his writing style was just sooo beautiful. "I'm not your reason, no one is your reason, your art is your own." The characters here were so precious, and I LOVE THEM. Louisa - She was such a sweet character. She was seventeen, yes. Did she act like a seventeen-year-old? Nope. I didn’t mind that, though, because I feel like, given how she was raised and where she was raised—with such limited exposure to life and such a wild imagination—it fit her character. Whenever she talked about Fish and how much she missed her, it was so sad because I think everyone would be able to relate to the feeling of missing a friend when you're in a different country, and you can't meet. You just want to meet and talk, but you can't, and you miss them so much. But what made it so much more sad here was the fact that Louisa could never do that, and I wanted to cry. Her being so curious and listening to Ted's story made this story so much better. She was such a lively character!! The chance to feel that he had stolen more moments from death than death had from him" The Artist - MY HEART BROKE FOR HIM. He deserved so much more than he got. Imagine being so talented and different from other people that even your parents think that there is something wrong with you instead of being proud of you. Uff, I hated them. How can you treat your son like that? I can't even fathom how that actually happens. I would love my child no matter what. The artist was so precious; he was literally like Louisa—lively and cheerful. His laugh was so addicting and contagious. Honestly, I need a graphic audio of this book just to listen to the artist laugh. But deep down, he was so troubled and sad, but he didn’t show it. He was always happy and laughing, and it's amazing how someone who got so little love could share so much love. I ALSO LOVED THAT ONE PAINTING HE DREW SO BAAAD. His interaction with Louisa was so cute "Children aren’t responsible for their parents' happiness, but they still try." Joar - What would I give to get him out of his house :( His story reminded me so much of Joey, but it was so different at the same time. His relationship with his mother and his relationship with his friends were so good. I actually loved him so much because he was there for everyone and protected them. That one scene where his mother is crying on the floor broke my heart because of the lengths she would go to protect her son and the fact that Joar was willing to do the same thing for her. Joar's love was so immense, and I loved him so much. My heart broke hearing his perspective of the story near the end, and have you guys seen those memes where they just shut down the book when a sad/bad part’s about to come, and the caption says "The perfect end"? Yeah, well, this is exactly how my rereads of this book would go. I am shutting this book on that part. "We all jumped off the pier. That was the last time I swam in the sea with my friends." Ali - NO! I'm not ready to talk about her yet!!! You guys don't understand how much I loved her and how much I loved her with Joar. FREDRIK, THIS IS NOT FAIRRRRRRRRRRRRRR. "It’s an act of violence when an adult yells at a child, all adults know that deep down because all adults were once little. Yet we still do it. Time after time, we fail at being human beings." Ted - Yes, yes, I know it's getting repetitive—but I LOVED HIM!! If men like Ted exist, the question "Man or Bear" would never even be there because he was so pure, innocent, and lovely. I loved his story, and I loved how Fredrik tackled his story. I just love how he views humans and how all his characters are so deeply flawed. Because when I was reading Ted's story, I felt so bad for him, but then I read the part where his mom and Ali are talking, and I felt so bad for his mom, too. Ufff, I just don’t know how to put it into words, but wow, it was just amazing to read. His whole scene with his brother was so sweet, and the whole "how words can affect people" thing played out here with his brother, and how he got his life in order because of Ted—I LOVEEEEEED IT! "Kimkim laughed, then Joar laughed, and then Ted and Ali laughed too, and perhaps that was the last time they all did that out loud, in such a liberating way, together." The four most beautiful, loving, caring, precious, cute, lovable, amazing friends - Them together was the highlight of this book!! Sir, I need what they have. The way these four friends brought me to the verge of tears—how they cared for each other so much. They were the epitome of "die for each other" because I just know that they would die for each other. The way they loved so, so much but were never loved—it just hurt so much reading that because they were just kids, and they deserved so much better. I want someone to love me like Joar loved Ali and the way Ted loved the artist, also the way the artist loved all of them. It also shocks me how much happiness these kids could express while living under these circumstances because I am so sure that I could never. The little things in this book were so cute, like the part where Ted and Joar would bring cookies for the artist, the part where they would teach Ali how to swim, the part where Ali would give Joar the knife, the part where they would go back for the ashes, and the part where the artist drew them all together. It was all so good. A very special thanks to Hoda, who's been nudging me to read Fredrik's books, and I am so glad she pushed me to read this as my first because I was going for Beartown, and I just know that it wouldn’t have hit as hard as this did. This was just amazing! I loved updating her at every scene, and her trying to make me cry and ordering me to blink a lot at every sad scene to force tears out of me. Also, loved her review... so check that out as well. I think I wrote so much for this book, but believe me when I say this: no matter how much I praise this book, it will never be enough. Some quotes/scenes that I love: "Don’t cry for me, Ted. I got to experience everything. It’s been a long, long life, and at the end of it, I got to see something unbelievably beautiful” “That girl’s paintings?” “No. You. I got to see you.” . "My... birthday isn't until tomorrow," she says. 'I might not see you tomorrow,' the man whispers, with kind eyes." . "Is it a horrible thing being an adult?" the girl asked. "Unbearable," the mother replied. "You fail with almost everything, all the time." . "Are you sure about that?" Louisa asks. Ted raises his eyebrows, somewhere in the borderland between surprised and insulted. "How do you mean?" Louisa's shoulders bounce. "I just mean... maybe you got the room in the basement so you wouldn't see how sick your dad was the whole time? And how sad your mom was? And maybe your mom was trying to protect you from your big brother?" Ted stares across the sea, squinting at the sun, with shame washing through him. All these years, and he has never even considered that. It's hard to be little, hard to be big, hard to be everything in between. So he turns toward Louisa and says: "It wasn't only bad. It was a love story at first, my mom and dad's marriage..." Then her eyes grow wide in anticipation, because she loves love stories. So he tells it to her the way it was once told to him." . "I could never have lived there without him. I would just have lain awake all night waiting for him to come home. I would have had to throw away all the eggs because he was the only one who ate them, but I would have forgotten not to buy them. I would have forgotten that he didn't exist, all the time. I would have gotten angry because the light in the bathroom was turned off, because I used to get so annoyed with him for always leaving it on. I would have saved all his shoes, all his shirts, and I would have been angry with the spring and hated flowers when they appeared because they drowned out the last smells of him. I would have always laid the table for two on the balcony. I would have had to eat all the popcorn myself. I would never have been able to pick a film." . "If anyone sees the painting, I don’t want them to know who I am. I only want to be who I really am...with you." . "Sometimes you don’t appreciate your own blessings until you see the envy in someone else's eyes." __ I'm desperate for a five stars and while beartown was supposed to be my starting journey with Fredrik, Hoda's review and updates for this book got me so hyped up and excited that I can't wait to start this. So excited 🤭🤸🏻 *Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher Atria for giving me an E-Arc.*

Before I declare this the best book Fredrik Backman has ever written, let me admit that I’ve lost count of how many times I cried, laughed too loudly (scaring the pets), or whined and howled while reading it. Nothing I say—no word I write—can adequately capture my feelings or do justice to this incredible book, even if I endlessly repeat the word "amazing" over and over again. My best advice? Don’t just read it and marvel at Backman’s brilliance. Instead, prepare to wipe your tears after finishing, and if you’re lucky enough to have people in your life like the characters in this book, call your best friends—the ones who helped shape you—and tell them, “I love you and I trust you.” If you can, visit them and give them the longest hugs, which is exactly what I plan to do. This book is about an endless sea, a profound friendship, and a true love story. It delves into grief, sacrifice, fart jokes, uproarious laughter, spontaneous adventures, learning to trust, and protecting loved ones at all costs. It’s about the serendipity of art. It’s about finding your own pearl in an oyster shell and learning to let go, even when it feels like shards of glass stabbing your heart. I haven’t read a friendship story this genuine, heartfelt, clumsy, straightforward, smart, sentimental, shocking, and emotionally resonant in a very long time. Joar: A “big little man” with the sharpest sarcastic humor, a kind heart brimming with love for his mother, a fighter, protector, and a sailor with a penchant for perfectly timed swearing anecdotes. Ali: Tough as nails, quick-witted, and fiercely independent, she uses her sharp tongue and street smarts to shield herself from the harm of violent men. She’s the creator of the worst ideas, a good runner, and a terrible swimmer. Ted: A mostly introverted, bookish soul who collects words like treasures, using them to craft brilliant stories. He’s caring, quirky, smart, and sensitive, learning to honor the ghosts of his past by saying goodnight to them—just like his father once did. The Artist (KimKim): A prodigy who sketches the laughter of his friends while embodying the vastness of the sea and sky. A man of few words, he battles his depression by embracing his uniqueness, just as his mother taught him, and prepares himself for his long-short journey through life. These four vagabonds met nearly a decade ago when they were just 15, united by their desire to help the artist attend a painting competition—even though he couldn’t afford supplies like paint, brushes, or canvas. Despite their own struggles and the harsh hands life had dealt them, they were resourceful and unstoppable as long as they had each other. Two decades later, the artist literally bumps into young Louisa, a quirky, awkward, fiercely intelligent girl raised in foster care, as she flees the church where his painting was auctioned. Realizing her obsession with seeing the painting in person, he instantly recognizes her as one of them. He devises a plan and enlists Ted to carry it out before he leaves this earth. That’s how Louisa becomes intertwined in their love story and discovers the real meaning behind the painting, On the Sea—a work that isn’t about the sea at all but about the depth of friendship and, yes, a funny fart! I won’t spoil more of the story. This is a tale where every character shines as the hero in their own right. While you might love one or two of them a little more, none of them feel insignificant. It’s a masterpiece. I’m calling it now—the best fiction of 2025 and my favorite Fredrik Backman novel to date. (It even made me wonder if parts were inspired by his own childhood memories.) I cannot recommend this book highly enough—it’s the kind of story that makes you want to shout your love for it from the rooftops and applaud for ten minutes straight like you’re at a Cannes Film Festival premiere. Endless gratitude to NetGalley and Atria Books for sharing this AMAZING WORK with me as a digital reviewer copy in exchange for my honest thoughts. Follow me on medium.com to read my articles about books, movies, streaming series, astrology: medium blog instagram facebook twitter

I actually am not articulate enough to explain or describe how Fredrik Backman’s writing makes me feel, but I’ll try my best 🫡 You know the storytelling is good when you think you know everything, but the author not only continuously surprises you in the most gut wrenching & also witty way - (which how can you mix the two? No idea, but fredrik backman excels at it) - but also give you chills SO MANY DAMN TIMES!!!!! I want to protect Louisa with everything I have, she was so annoying but in the most endearing way possible. Her & Ted’s dynamic was absolutely perfect - seeing them (with complete opposite personalities + a big age difference might I add) connect on such deep levels truly was amazing The 25 years ago storyline portrayed the most wonderful depiction of childhood friendships, with not just the loyalty these kids had for each other, but the TRUST when literally no one around them has ever given them a reason to do so Anyway I love this book, I love the writing, I love the storytelling, and I love Fredrik Backman ✨ “Because art is a fragile magic, just like love, and humanity’s only defense against death. That we create and paint and dance and fall in love, that’s our rebellion against eternity. Everything beautiful is a shield.” “It’s a funny thing. The person we fall in love with, we hardly ever call by their name. Because it’s somehow just so obvious that it’s you who I’m talking to, that it’s you I’m always thinking of. Who else?” “I love you…and I believe in you”

there is no world in which this book does not get a 5 star rating from me and anything i say about it will not do it justice. my annotation tabs were working overtime, so many quotes that i want to remember forever. i fell in LOVE with Fredrik’s writing through this book and will absolutely be reading Beartown this winter!

“because in an ugly place, he was born with so much beauty inside him that it was like an act of rebellion. in a world full of sledgehammers, his art was a declaration of war.” this quote is describing the artist. but it also shows how fredrik backman uniquely perceives the world and tenderly sees the people who live in it. i think, if i could slightly tweak his own words to describe FB himself, it would go something like this: because in such a hateful place, he was born with so much love inside him that it was like an act of rebellion. in a world full of vitriol, his writing was a declaration of war. this story is a war against harsh judgement. a war against fathers who parent with their fists. a war against stolen childhoods. a war against feeling alone and inadequate. and its a battle to save the innocence of children. to save someone who has given up on themselves. to save human connection. to save everything good and precious in this world. this is a book any reader can read and, after turning the last page, will confidently say that FB “is one of us.” because who else is able to understand just how valuable each persons story is and how it deserves to be told, if not a reader? FB is one of us and he is the best of us. ↠ 5 stars

this book made me thankful that, someone who sees the world through a lens like this; & had the talent to share that view with the most beautiful story telling & prose - exists in the world ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ 6 stars!!!!

Too often I walk around with a heart that isn’t really feeling. This book cracked my chest open and let my heart take in everything. I felt grief and hope in equal measure, and just so happy to be alive. And the characters in the book. Well, they will stay with me and point me in the right direction. Towards humans, towards art. Towards meaning. If you want to feel something as well, there is one sure way to go about it. Read. this. Book.

4.5⭐️ such an incredible discussion of grief, self identity and friendship that it consistently took my breath away.

A painting and friendship; Or a painting of friendship. This magnificent story is told by only one of them to a new one. Through the eyes of an adult reflecting back on a summer that was both the best and the worst. What brought these 4 teens together were the very things that kept them from wanting to be at home. Broken children just trying to survive; just wanting to be loved and accepted. They became their own family; their own humans. Backman’s characters are our friends; our family; our neighbours. They are authentic in their flaws- compassionate in their friendship. His humour resonates throughout what is also heavy and dark with themes of loss, grief, violence and identity. But there are also glorious moments of joy - as beautiful as wings. They say a picture is worth 1000 words. Sometimes it’s worth a lifetime. Sometimes that lifetime, is a summer. Cheers to C.Jat And to Backman: this is the chef’s kiss 💋 5⭐️ A superb Buddy read w Tracy 📚👯

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️(⭐️) It's difficult to write a review for a book when even thinking about it reduces you to tears, but I'll attempt it anyway. This was AMAZING. Fredrik Backman has such a way with words: description, storytelling, his ability to perfectly examine, pick apart and display characters... that makes me so thankful to be a reader. My Friends is a story of loss, infatuation, friendship, childhood and on moving on. It carries flaws (characters, never in writing), that make you feel as if the characters are standing right in front of you, and my gosh are they real in my brain. The plot, as heartbreaking as it was heartwarming, examines what it means to live on the fringes of society and find the joy in what is left. This book is human at its core. I'll recommend this forever!

Fredrik Backman is 1 of the few writers I truly admire. His novels feel like mirrors that reflect the softest, most fragile, and most honest parts of myself. His magic isn’t in big, dramatic plots- it’s in how he turns the quiet, everyday moments into poetry, how he wraps silent pain in something gentle, something warm. His characters are never perfect - they’re lonely, angry, confused. But they’re kind, resilient, and deeply lovable. He makes me believe that even the most overlooked person has their own heroic journey. His humor isn’t there to mock - it’s there to heal. He writes heavy stories with a light touch, and somehow, I always end up laughing through tears and crying through smiles. And his words - feel like a whisper from a good friend: “You’re not alone.” If you loved Beartown or A Man Called Ove, you’ll see a deeper, more layered Backman in this novel. If Ove made me want to be a good, ordinary person, Anxious People and Beartown made me want to be a better friend, a better sibling, a better human. My Friends made me want to stay in this world, and make it better, make “me” better. I really can’t explain the way the coincidences in the book hit me. Because in Backman’s world, nothing is random. Everything “should” happen. He’s writing his life, his version of how the world “could” be. And maybe that’s why this novel feels like his last book, because he wrote “himself” into it. And you only get 1 life - once it’s written, it’s done. The story folds in on itself, like circles within circles. A quiet, ordinary life, layered and unregretful, leaving its mark. Backman isn’t just the storyteller - he’s the main character. He tells “their" stories, but in this one, his friends are the heroes. Their small shoulders carry enormous weight. But he’s still the heart of it all - the hero in his own story, and in theirs. And now, they can walk their paths without him. That’s why this book makes sense. Or maybe that’s why he wrote it. This novel is about friendship, art, growing up, and the things we don’t talk about enough. It talks about domestic violence - not just the victims, but the deafening silence and guilt just beyond the wall. It talks about friendship - not just in words or gestures, but in the kind of people who stay, who walk beside you no matter what. Because walking together is what makes it feel like "coming home". It talks about art. not just the moment you grow wings, but the cosmic alignment of everything that leads to it. The kind of beauty you hold onto when you’re staring down death. There were so many moments I loved. When Christian’s mom and the priest quietly divided flowers at dusk for the artist’s grave - that’s when Backman’s worldview became real to me. When Louisa offered to make a plaque for Joar, and his only request was: she couldn’t stay. That’s when the character stood up and became someone. When I finally understood the layers of legacy - whether it’s “one of us,” a book, or a sadness passed down - each one keeps moving, keeps changing hands. Toward the end, I didn’t want to finish. It was too much. Too beautiful. Too overwhelming. I might forgot half of the details now - probably escaped with every sarcastic line Ali threw out. But I remember the feeling. Every sentence hit me right in the soul. Every word - I couldn’t skip it. I kept rereading, whispering them to myself like a prayer. And I couldn’t tell - was I looking at the stars, or were they looking back at me? After all these years reading Backman, I think I finally get him. At first, I didn’t understand why he quoted so many famous lines in this novel. But now I do - because every book is a life. Every character was once someone’s kid, someone’s hero. Each 1 carries dream, starlight, summer, ocean waves, and the scent of cigarettes. Backman said this might be his last published novel. Not because he’s done writing, but because he’s stepping away from publishing. So this book feels heavier. More raw. It’s about the cracks in friendship, the cost of growing up, the ache of goodbye. It reads like a letter. to his kids, his friends, and maybe to himself. A letter about love, loss, and holding on. But to me, it’s not an ending. It’s a deep breath. A gentle pause. And if My Friends really is his farewell, then it’s the softest kind of goodbye - full of tears, gratitude, and the words he didn’t say out loud: “Thank you for walking this path with me.” 5 / 5 stars

Absolutely brilliant and beautiful. My friends, I encourage you all to grab a copy of My Friends and enjoy it in your favorite reading spot! I loved, loved, loved this book. All the stars and then some! I love books about found family, underdogs, and flawed individuals. I also love with books with beautiful writing and Fredrik Backman out did himself with My Friends! Every single page of this book was a gift. This book evoked emotion, had me rooting for the characters, feeling their pain and their joy. They say beauty is in the eye of the beholder and there is so much beauty in this book. Beauty in the friendships, beauty in the artwork, beauty in found family, and beauty in the kindness of strangers. There is also love. Love for friends, love for those who are not related to us but become our family, love for family (even if they are horrible) and love of art. It is a piece of art but it also so much more. It is the embodiment of a bond, it was their life, it was their friendship, it was a found family, it was a summer day, and it was everything to the group of teens who were painted by their friend, the artist. Louisa, a young artist herself, sees what the artists intended while looking at the artwork at a museum while others only see the Sea. A chance meeting with the artist in an alley will change Louisa's life. He sees in her what she can't see herself. He sees her beauty, her perceptive eye, her loss, her grief, and her love of art. He bequeaths her the painting and unknowing/knowingly gives her so much more. Ted, the artists childhood friend and one of the teens in the painting, gives Louisa the painting and along their journey together shares with her the story behind the artwork. What a joy this was to read. It is brilliant, and beautifully written. I found myself highlighting section after section. My Friends is now my favorite book by Backman. This book gives all the feels while also giving some humor, some smiles, some tears, and some hope. I loved his flawed characters and how they came together and became each other's family. The friendships of our youth are special and life altering, and Fredrik Backman captured that beautifully. Plus, the ending - priceless. Told in two timelines, My Friends is a masterpiece itself. Beautifully written, evoking emotion well thought out, and moving. Highly Recommend. *A Wonderful Witches words buddy read with Brenda, Norma, and Dorie! Please read their reviews as well to see what they thought of My Friends! Thank you to Atria Books and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own. Read more of my reviews at www.openbookposts.com 📖

the amount of times i cried?!?! i don’t even need to write a detailed, long review. this book speaks for itself. i present to you — a masterpiece. 🩵 6 stars.

howling at the moon and ripping my skin off like i’m going into heat. this book triggered a primal instinct within me! i think im gonna jump off a cliff and crack my head open for fun! 🐺💚 you come up to me and you mentioned this book and you’re never gonna escape the conversation that I’m about to put you in. i literally faltered reading this book. it always hits me strongest when secret pining, longing, and yearning from the mmc is involved because “he easily resigned himself to a lifetime without her, but… simply put, he is unwilling to contemplate a universe in which she no longer exists” meaning even if he can’t have her that doesn’t mean she still doesn’t deserve the world! i’m melting 🫠 yall can gouge my eyes out but ill always be a sucker for the sunshine girl that’s oblivious to the mmc yearning for her x the buff grumpy mmc who would paint the town red (green) for her without blinking. and he bought her underwear in his favorite color?!! please kill me now 🤭 the plot outside of the romance was also like eating popcorn in front of a movie, i was invested. learning about serena’s past and how it interconnects with koen. i was eating it up. appreciated how the world expanded in this one and was so clearly imaginative. i’m sitting here saying “tell me more” serena omg. her humor PEAK. it’s a good thing all of Ali’s books are primarily in the fmc’s pov because i get to imagine myself going to pound town with koen. the way she commands koen, him being alpha and all, how he folds like paper when she’s around and is incapable of saying no to her. his first instinct being to protect her. putting her first in every situation. ughhh i just might kill myself over this. koen. omg my sarcasm king, come to my bed IMMEDIATELY. never has one been so protective and primal the way he has. i totally understand the vision when serena mentioned he “looks like he chops wood” because goddamn i couldn’t have asked for a clearer image. he seemed very passionate and whimsical to me whenever he would wolf out in some way. whether that was the fucking that was 30 pages long or him building chairs. in every possible way a woman can want a fictional man, i fucking need koen. no one can make me feel guilty about eating this up. because i’m planning to electrocute my brain to serve myself some memory loss so I can read this book again 🙂‍↕️💕

"He would die for her, and he would kill for her. More importantly, he will live for her. She'll be the purpose driving every second of his every day." Well, that was unexpectedly pleasant and worth reading. I was initially a bit wary given how Ali Hazelwood's books are mostly a miss for me but her paranormal books seem to be going well with me compared to her usual STEM ones. I found this one to be better than Bride which I also loved. The writing here is more balanced, the relationships and plot more developed and of depth. More purpose driven rather than filler. It's clear she knew what she was doing here and I wasn't in any Misery reading the smut for once. Of course there are phrases and terms which are quite cringe but didn't really bother me. The vibes and atmosphere of the book is so cozy, I just wanted to immerse myself in it. This was easy to fly through 😩😩 Koen and Serena have such good chemistry and their banter was chef's kiss. I loved how their romance developed and the tension between them was so good. I liked Serena far more than I liked Misery if I think about it. There's more personality and charm to her. As for Koen , he was exactly what I wanted from an Alpha werewolf- commanding, dominant, possessive and a smartass 👀🤭 For once I was surprised that the smut didn't make me cringe in her books. This was far more refined and balanced in the sense that it didn't come across as immature or too forced. It came off as natural. Well, it's either that or my smut standards were extremely low 🤷‍♀️😂 Anyhoo, loved it. Now I want to binge more werewolf books. ~•~•~ I wanna get my fix of werewolves and read some cringe Ali Hazelwood smut

HOWLING AT THE MOON! 🌙🐺 Ali remade my brain cells with this one because wdym the fmc is literally (AND I DO MEAN LITERALLY) dying for that D!! 💚✨🐺🔥🪢🔥🐺✨💚 “She tore him apart and remade him. It took her less than a second.” Serena is new to the whole Werewolf thing and all of the sudden the Alpha of the Northwest is claiming she’s his mate 🐺✨ Koen says it’s not that deep and he just thinks she’s a little cute. She tells him “no, thanks” but all of a sudden she’s dealing with a mysterious illness & seeks his shelter. However, it might be all his fault…. “Her laughter adjusts the spin of his atoms.” The EFFORTLESS banter & BREWING chemistry between these two had me inhale the book in a single sitting 🔥 It’s definitely a slow burn romance but…WHAT A PAYOFF!! The were smut was raw, phenomenal & most importantly unforgettable. Favorite moments: 🐺 she always ends up wearing his oversized clothing 🌙 OMEGAVERSE SMUT with scenting & knotting 🐺 when she leaves the bed for food & he gets upset so he knots her fast just so she can’t leave again “poor killer. She didn’t do as she was told, and now look” *screaming in horny disbelief* 🌙 naked werewolves everywhere you look/read 🐺 she plays piano while sitting in his lap 🌙 the way he takes care of her when she’s the….sickest Koen is a total ALPHA BAE! Every chapter begins with a sentence or two in his pov and every single time it had me clawing at my chest. He was a grumpy laid back ass to everyone but just couldn’t pull it off with Serena. The AGE GAP with size difference but she holds his will in the palm of her hand. Ali’s writing is absolute brilliant! The witty banter between characters highlighted by her chaotically hilarious analogies. I’ve never had so many paragraphs highlighted!! How does her brain work like that?? grumpy x sunshine age gap size difference forced proximity slow burn “illness” kidnapping cult plot cozy Pacific Northwest vibes found family single pov HEA

At her heart, Ali Hazelwood is a science fiend (one does not dedicate their life to obtaining a PhD in it if they are not) and she always entwines her knowledge of nerdy stuff into the love stories she writes. It’s a consistent, unique theme in her books, and this is no exception. Except it kind of is, because this is the least Ali Hazelwood-ish book Ali Hazelwood has written, in that the science is 100% horny. Is it accurate? Werewolves don’t exist so it’s hard to say for sure but like, yeah, why not? The science was also horny in Bride but that was an appetizer to the absolute buffet of turgid-flesh-meets-soft-warmth that is Mate. It’s still a Hazelwood production (Koen is very tall, they’ll always be very tall) but it’s creeping towards the unfamiliar (not a single miscommunication for no reason?!) in a refreshing twist. I’m in it for life with Ali (we Alisons need to stick together) so it’s good that I was sort of a straight-up freak for this one. Mate: we don’t ick licks, so if you don’t like it, scoot.

was so feral reading this that i gnawed on my Kindle

4.5 rounded up. I’ll come back with a review after the weekend … the audio narration was 1000/10 (minus how she did Misery’s voice dirty. Why did Mjsery sound like a 60 year old senator?

5 stars I read Bride last year when it first came out, and absolutely loved it, so I’m thrilled to say that Mate was just as wonderful! Serena and Koen were both such engaging characters, and watching their relationship grow and deepen was fantastic. I also appreciated how much genuine emotion ran through the story. Ali Hazelwood continues to shine in the paranormal romance genre, and I really hope she keeps writing more of them! Audio book source: Audible Story Rating: 5 stars Narrators: Teddy Hamilton & Ellie Gossage Narration Rating: 5 stars Genre: Paranormal Romance Length: 14h 29

“Her laughter adjusts the spin of his atoms.” Serena frustrated me a bit in Bride because of how many secrets she was keeping, but in Mate I just wanted to give her a hug. This girl loves so fiercely and is so loyal! I adored getting to learn more about her motives. It added a level of emotion I wasn’t expecting from this story, especially in regard to her relationship with Misery. Koen is the most delightful lumber-sexual grump! I ADORED the chemistry between these two. The sass and banter was unmatched. The development of their relationship was just perfect. I fear that Ali Hazelwood has just been working for me lately. 😌💚🖤 *Obviously I have to read this right now! October is basically paranormal romance month. 🤭*

As per usual, Ali Hazelwood knocks it out of the damn park. The way she makes her men yearn… I will never get enough. I enjoyed this more than Bride, which is saying something bc I loved Bride. Mate had a certain je ne sais quoi that truly had me SQUEALING. I loved both main characters so much, Serena may be my favorite Ali FMC ever, I ate this story absolutely all the way up! Also the location with the cabin was so atmospheric and the side characters were *chef’s kiss*. 5 stars. LOVE.

This book was literally everything and Ali Hazelwood has rewired my brain chemistry. How does she do it!?!?! From the beginning when we first meet the hero and heroine, I was obsessed. And the little paragraphs before each chapter to show just how much the her was yearning and pining the whole time!?!?! But the forbidden aspect of their relationship!? But the fact that they were constantly forced together, but he literally COULD NOT be with her!?!? I was SCREAMING!!! I literally had physical reactions to reading this book, kicking my feet, throwing my book, EVERYTHINGGGG. A top book of 2025 and all-time. I love them so muchhhhhh 🥹

I will be accepting zero criticism, so if you have something to say you can go somewhere else. Knot on my watch.

4.5 stars The story of Serena, a half human half werewolf hybrid and her mate Koen, the Alpha of the Northwest pack. After spending several months in seclusion, Koen pulls Serena back into the center of his pack as threats amount against her. Soon, Serena realizes her past is coming back to haunt her and she must prepare to make all her family members safe. Ali Hazelwood can be hit or miss with me, but the Bride series have had 2 bangers in a row and I hope many many more in this series. I didn't reread Bride before diving into this one, so I was slightly confused at first on the logistics but a quick google search helped remind me. The beginning of this was slow, a little too much exposition (hence 4.5 stars and not a full 5) but I loved it and it’s the kind of book that reminded me of why I love reading again. I really liked Serena and Koen as a couple, once we got to their dynamics a bit more. They were very well matched and I loved the fated mate trope in this book. I thought there was some great tension and buildup done by Ali Hazelwood, I wasn’t ever really bored with this one nor did it seem repetitive (like some of her other books). I thought the plot was very well done and while predictable, still incredibly enjoyable. I can’t wait for her next book release!

4.5⭐️🎧 audiobook was SCRUMPTIOUS THIS HAS ALL THE FEELS. How am I supposed to return to normal society now that I am absolutely feral 🌖🌗🌘🌑🌒🌓🌔 This book is the perfect mix of sweet + romantic while also being filthy + hot. I need 3-5 business days to calm down Oh & the epilogue was FUCKING PERFECT I cannot get it out of my head.

From the moment he tells her she's his mate and she responds "is this a terminal diagnosis", I KNEW I was in for a treat. I was enamored with Koen & Serena from start to finish. The feral alpha were does it for me every single time. "Do you trust anyone at all?" "with your precious life, Killer? How could I?"

I was so happy to return to the world Ali Hazelwood created in BRIDE! Hazelwood is a genius at building chemistry and tension between characters and this book highlights that genius. I adore Serena and Koen and how their relationship progresses but what I appreciate even more than the main romance is the way Hazelwood doesn't lose the importance of the heroine's best friend. Today's romance, especially in the romantasy sub-genre, needs less focus on the MMC and his angst and brooding and violence, blah, blah, predictable blah, and more interesting secondary female characters who are tight with the MFC. MATE does this very well! Bravo! I hope Hazelwood is far from done with this world!

since i finsihed Bride lets go to the #2 one!

Ali Hazelwood is so hit or miss for me, but this one is a massive hit. I didn’t hate Bride. I actually enjoyed it quite a bit, but I did have some small issues with its execution. Mate feels like the perfect sequel, taking everything that worked in the first book and expanding on it. It’s humorous, heartfelt, and hot in a way I haven’t really gotten from Ali’s other work. Serena and Koen are by far more enjoyable leads than Misery and Lowe were in Bride (though, ironically, Misery shines here as a sidekick more than she ever did as an FMC). There’s a lot happening, but it all comes together in a rushed yet satisfying conclusion. Overall, this is easily my favorite Ali Hazelwood book to date. She’s firing on all cylinders in the fantasy space, and this is leagues more enjoyable than any of her contemporaries. For vibes and pure fun alone, it’s an easy five stars.

"If someone had given me a piece of paper and asked me to list everything I liked, everything I dreamed of, everything that I was sure would make me happy, you would have been the final product of it." 4.5 stars Thank you, Ali Hazelwood 🙏 Thank you for making this book better in the first 20 pages than the entirety of the last 3 books I've read. I will say this one I'm giving 4.5 stars more for the vibes and just my general consistent entertainment. I flew through this book and enjoyed every minute of it, though there were aspects to it that were questionable, and I think I enjoyed Bride a smidge more. Both characters were great, and they mixed so well. I found myself laughing out loud to several of the crazy things Serena said and was so endeared with Koen's responses to her and him thinking her a nuisance 😘 I had a little trouble getting through his weird name calling, some of them were great and other times I was the physical embodiment of "huh?" I thought his character was a little too good at hiding how he felt at first, and he was unnecessarily mean to her and "uncaring" in a little too believable way, so when he starts to kind of lose his internal battle, it didn't feel quite natural but more abrupt. And he wasn't in his wolf form NEARLY enough to satiate me werewolf needs. But hoooolly I love Ali's books and devour them every time. SPOILER BELOW * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * FUCKING CLASSIC. Two separate male doctors assess her symptoms and determine she's dying when she's actually just starting her cycle 😐

5.0 ★— In a world where I’m increasingly forced to read dual-POV romance and thus read men’s thoughts, which I have never cared to do, Ali Hazelwood shines like a beacon in the dark, giving us single-POV goodness. I pick up her books to see big men pine pathetically after heroines who don’t know it, happily not subjected to a man’s POV… and I got all that here. In other words: wow, this really hit, and I’m so glad Ali Hazelwood enjoys writing as much as she seemingly does! I got my pining man, my (to an extent) oblivious heroine, my complicated and convoluted reason they’re being kept apart while both want each other, and, of course, the knotting too. I am so happy.

This was phenomenal! I adored the relationship & everything about this, it went in a direction I wasn’t expecting which made it even better! I love this world!! ARC Review

Obsessed. Fiendish. Feral. Take all my stars. 5 stars but actually 6 of them. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ I fucking loved this. Let’s get into it This is the sequel to Bride & while it is, it almost acts as a standalone. I think you CAN read this without having read Bride & not be totally lost, but the experience won’t be as good. & I say that as someone who was mid on Bride. I think it’s worth a read to get to this. PLOT After being thrust into the limelight as the first known were/human, she needs get away & does so with the Northwest pack. Whose alpha is her mate, & he wants nothing to do with her. This book has - forbidden love - werewolves, vampires, humans - cult activity & werewolf pack politics - med spice (knotting) - duet audiobook - first person, with 2 POVs (mostly FMC) PROS - Coen. The alpha that you are are. I LOVE Coen. He’s grumpy but snarky & clever & funny & I love him. He has the like, exact personality of MMCs I love. 10/10, no notes. - Serena is a delight. It’s very fun being in her head this whole book. - The banter? Truly top tier. Their dynamic was everything & I love them so much. The tension was so good & I just loved everything. - Serena & Misery‘s friendship is literally so funny & sweet. - I laughed out loud multiple times. The cloaca conversation had me cackling. - The duet audiobook was EXCELLENT. - I just love the writing. It’s so clever & full of fun references & I’m officially an Ali Stan. CONS - None I’m a monster & loved this DOWN. I’m so glad I bought this audiobook. Surely this will be a relisten.

Don’t believe the lie if somebody insists that there were no women in Vietnam. They were there! They served their country, struggling with tragedies, PTSD, and casualties as well. But there was one crucial difference for them: they were never considered war heroes. Nobody applauded them for the sacrifices they made or awarded them medals. They didn't receive praise for their service, and when they attempted to speak about the psychologically consuming experiences they went through, they were silenced, as they weren't even recognized as veterans. This work is dedicated to the women who served their country both militarily and as civilian women stationed in Vietnam – heroines who need to be remembered, praised, and admired. This time, Kristin Hannah takes us back to the mid-sixties, shortly after JFK was shot in Texas. The country's primary focus is battling communism, and in pursuit of this mission, numerous troops comprising young Americans are sent to Vietnam. I highly recommend keeping some napkins, handkerchiefs, or tissues close by, as you'll need them during your reading experience. Another word of caution: don't plan anything extensive for your day, because once you start reading this book and tell yourself you'll only read a few pages before setting it down, that plan might not hold. From the moment you dive into Frances “Frankie” McGrath’s story, you'll become engrossed. It's almost as if you're under a spell – you won't be able to put it down. Her story will grip you, tearing at your heartstrings and evoking numerous tears, as you connect with her fears, heartbreaks, pains, anger, and frustrations. You can practically hear her internal screams and the words she's forced to bottle up because nobody wants to listen. She might be the most honest, poignant, tough, and resilient heroine the author has ever created. So, my advice is to clear your schedule, go with the flow, and allow the story to transport you to the jungles of Vietnam, where the echoing sound of helipads reverberates in your ears, and you find yourself in a hospital surrounded by young soldiers uttering their final messages to their loved ones. The book commences at a house party on Coronado Island, celebrating Frankie’s brother's enlistment. Frankie decides to take a break in her father's study, where a "hero’s walk" is displayed, featuring photos of the family's men who served in various wars. Now, her brother will be added to this wall. But why can't she be included too? It's in this moment that she realizes her brother's best friend, Rye, is also hiding in the room, questioning her: why can't a woman be a hero as well? This question alters everything for Frankie and challenges the life plans her family has set out for her. They expect her to marry and have children, conforming to the norms of the early sixties. However, she decides that she, too, can be a hero, serving her country and making her family proud, just like her brother did. She applies to the Army Nurse Corps to follow in her brother's footsteps. Her conservative and highly respected family doesn't support her decision, and when a tragic piece of news arrives unexpectedly, Frankie's life takes a sharp turn before she embarks on her earth-shattering journey. Soon, she finds herself amidst chaos and destruction, realizing that as a young, innocent, and inexperienced woman, she's like a fish in a bottle tossed into a dangerous ocean teeming with sharks. Within a short span of time, she becomes terrified, numb, and exhausted, navigating days where her heart breaks as she witnesses soldiers younger than her brother losing their lives and civilians becoming expendable amidst the chaos. As Frankie edges closer to collapse, nearly drowning in sorrow, her friends Barb and Ethel extend a lifeline, offering enough emotional support to keep her from giving up. The book takes us on a 20-year journey with Frankie, spanning two terms of her life as she struggles to save herself. She risks her life in the process, and upon her return, she realizes that she's not regarded as a war hero like the men who fought in combat. People avoid discussing the war, and even her own family treats her as though she's done something to embarrass them, something they'd rather not acknowledge. During the day, she's compelled to blend into the community, resuming where she left off before the war, while at night, she battles her nightmares and the clutches of PTSD. She comes to understand that she's not the proud, ideal girl her family wanted her to be and never can be. Eventually, she gives in. Frankie's painful journey, marked by her substantial losses, her battles with addiction, and her anger toward those who betrayed and disrespected her, is portrayed with remarkable realism. You can feel her emotions; they're everywhere. You ache, you cry, you feel resentment, and you sigh. You experience every pain she carries as if it's a blow to your own face. She's one of the women from the war whose stories need to be told, remembered, cherished, and respected. Will she overcome her inner demons? Will she learn to heal from her pain, forgive those who worsened her suffering, embrace her flaws, and confront her fears that she's afraid to share with others? Will she ultimately find the peace she's searching for? Read her story to uncover the answers. I'm still recovering from the impact of this book. My heart is a whirlwind of different emotions. While some characters may seem fictional initially, as you delve into their stories, you'll develop an immediate connection that makes these characters a part of you, lingering in your life indefinitely. Frankie is one such character – unforgettable, courageous, vulnerable, tarnished but not broken, poignant, and dependable. I believe this might be my favorite work by Kristin Hannah. After reading her closing note, I gained a deeper appreciation for the years of hard work she put into creating these vivid characters and crafting realistic descriptions of war zones, leading us on this unforgettable journey. This book will likely be one of the standout reads of 2024, and I consider myself fortunate to have had the opportunity to read it. Many thanks to NetGalley and St. Martin’s Press for providing me with a digital review copy of this amazing book in exchange for my honest thoughts. Follow me on medium.com to read my articles about books, movies, streaming series, astrology: medium blog instagram facebook twitter<

I love books that not only teach me something but are thought provoking and evoke emotion. This book fits that bill to a "T" and then some. I don't think it is possible for Kristin Hannah to write a bad book. As with her other books, The Women is well written, well thought out, and gripping. I was instantly absorbed in this book and had a hard time putting it down. I felt as if I were a fly on the wall, traveling to Vietnam with Frankie, and observing what life as a nurse was like during that time. The devastating injuries of the soldiers, the choices the medical staff had to make (who could be saved, who not to treat), the explosions, the living conditions, the lack of supplies and the relationships that were formed, left an impression on me. Frances “Frankie” McGrath was raised Coronado Island, California by her conservative parents. In the beginning of the book, she is a twenty-year-old nursing student living at home with her conservative, country club member parents. After her older brother goes to Vietnam, Frankie recalls the words of one of his friends “Women can be heroes, too.” , Frankie joins the Army Nurse Corps and after training, she is sent to Vietnam to work as a nurse. What she sees and experiences is shocking, traumatizing, heartbreaking and ultimately life changing. When not treating the horrifically injured soldiers, Frankie has formed close bonds with her fellow nurses. Bonds that will also change her life. Upon coming home, Frankie is shocked by being spit on, yelled at, and told repeatedly that women were not in Vietnam. I was shocked to learn that the Nurses who provide medical care to soldiers were not considered Veterans even though they signed up with the Army. That they could not go to the VA for help with PTSD. It was appalling and heartbreaking. Besides the beautiful writing, I loved how Hannah showed the strength of female friendship. How the women supported each other and formed a family unit amongst themselves. This was one of the highlights for me. They lifted each other up, loved each other, accepted each other’s faults, celebrated their strengths, and when everyone else was letting them down, they knew they could count on each other. This book also shows how PTSD affected nurses, doctors, and soldiers. How many self-medicated with drugs and alcohol. This book also depicts scenes of great bravery, political upheaval, war protests, the effects of PTSD, self-medication with drugs, friendships, family dynamics, sexism, and growth. The characters are fully fleshed out and feel real. I felt for them, rooted for them, and cried with them. Well written, gripping, shocking, and thought provoking. *Traveling Friends buddy read with Mary Beth #KristinHannah #NetGalley #StMartinsPress Thank you to St. Martin's Press and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All the thoughts and opinions are my own. Read more of my reviews at www.openbookposts.com

When Frances "Frankie McGrath's brother ships out to serve in Vietnam, she joins the Army Nurse Corps and follows his path when she hears that women can be heroes too. Frankie is overwhelmed by the chaos and destruction of war as well as the unexpected trauma of coming home to a changed and politically divided America. Every time I open up a Kristin Hannah novel I get so excited. I have loved all of her books. This story is all about the women, the nurses in the Vietnam War. I think this is the first book that actually is about the women in the Vietnam War. It's about the women who puts themselves in harms way to help others. Women whose sacrifice and commitment to their country has all too often been forgotten. It's an emotional story. Frankie is so brave and strong and has dealt with so much death. Many of the women ended up with PTSD, flashbacks, and nightmares but they couldn't get the help that was needed like the men could. I loved all of the characters. They were all done so well. I loved the women's friendship. They all had each other's backs. They all were a good support group with each other. This was such a great book. I want to thank St. Martin's Press for the copy of this book.

The Women was divine. Hannah’s writing has matured much like a fine wine. Each of her stories becoming richer, more complex, multi-layered. The Women is a tribute to the many unsung female nurses who served in the Vietnam War. Frankie, 20, has graduated nursing school and has enlisted. Although green, her nursing skills sharpen during her 2 tours. However when she returns home, the welcome isn’t a warm one. The brevity and courage these veterans had. Not only fighting for their lives over seas, but fighting for their own recognition at home amid a storm of protests and division. The sacrifices made. The lies told. Hannah masterly develops a character from a young naive girl, to a professional combat nurse, to a veteran returning home experiencing many of the symptoms men did- except many unaware women even served. Grief, PTSD, shame, addiction and healing. 5⭐️ Hannah, you knocked it out of the park.

In this devided world run by men , you can count on women. This quote felt like a perfect background for the overlooked story of the women serving their country in Vietnam. I for one hadn’t thought about the people who went there as nurses or other professions to help any way they could. I knew how important the war was when it came to recognizing how trauma can stay in the body and wreak havoc, and this book also showed how much society can make it harder to heal by not recognizing people who partake in war. In addition to being a convincing portrayal of war and PTSD, it was a love story that made me cry at the end. At one point I had to take a pause from listening because it was hard to process all the pain the main character suffered. When that happens, you know a story has affected you deeply.

Another fantastic book by Kristin Hannah I haven’t read much about the Vietnam War.. but, I was born in ‘58 and as a young girl I remember seeing the horrific video and images on the nightly news and.. fortunately for me.. I only knew of one older cousin who got drafted to go to war. Most everything we saw before, during, and after the war was about the men who were there.. of course it was the men who saw combat.. but women were there too… the nurses trying to patch up mutilated bodies, being alongside the dying as they took their last breaths..the women also endured a lot! This is the story of the WOMEN… a few of them.. mostly about a young girl Frankie, who after her brother enlisted.. she followed him and was a war nurse in the Army. I loved the story, mostly the first half that took place in Vietnam during wartime. So much about this story took me back to those days.. the riots, the political landscape, the war protests, the mention of certain songs. Wonderful! Thank you to Netgalley and St Martins Press for the ARC!

4.5 stars rounded up. I was I high school when the Vietnam War started and I have to admit that I didn’t pay much attention until several years later in college when I found myself in a protest march on campus. I was more aware then or at least I thought I was. I had learned that a high school friend was killed there. The focus then was on the young men killed, the innocents of the region bombed, the insanity of the war. I never gave a thought about the women who served in the military as nurses, who saved so many, who experienced the trauma of seeing mutilated bodies, held the hands of those who wouldn’t come home. I never thought of the nurses who worked tirelessly under horrible conditions, who through their stamina and skill made it possible for so many to come home. Had I thought about them I never would have imagined that they would not be considered veterans. Kristin Hannah in this novel though the character of Frankie McGrath and her two best friends brings light and honor to the women who served. It’s a stunning read, not for the faint of heart, with vivid descriptions of the wounds and loss of limbs and loss of life. It portrays the grueling days and nights of these women as well as the doctors vividly. Their physical and emotional exhaustion and how they cope with sometimes heartbreaking effect. Frankie’s life after she returned home is heart wrenching. Highly recommend for those who remember the times and for those who don’t. It’s an eye opener that will punch you in the gut, but it’s worth it. I received a copy of this book from St. Martin’s Press through NetGalley.

It’s perfect. 😭😭😭😭😭

“The women had a story to tell, even if the world wasn't quite yet ready to hear it, and their story began with three simple words. We were there.” Kristen Hannah is quickly becoming my favorite author. This is my third book by her and she is a wonderful storyteller. She knows how to captivate her audience. “That was the starting and ending point in life: love. The journey was everything in between.” In The Women you follow Frankie who is combat nurse durning The Vietnam War. She tells her story about her time before and after the war. “Thank God for girlfriends. In this crazy, chaotic, divided world that was run by men, you could count on the women.” I LOVED this book so much. I learned so much about the Vietnam War. Kristen had me googling info like I was back in High School and honestly I loved it. This book is more than just a war story. It captures female friendships, ptsd representation a world we used to live in not too long ago. I loved how much music was mentioned in this book as well. That time era I think had the best Rock N Roll so I loved to see it get the recognition it deserved. I have like 300 quotes from this book that will stay with me for a lifetime. “Maybe happy now, happy for a moment, is all we really get. Happy forever seems a shitload to ask in a world on fire.” The Nightingale- 4.5 ⭐️ The Great Alone- 5 ⭐️ The Women- 5 ⭐️ “We were the last believers, my generation. We trusted what our parents taught us about right and wrong, good and evil, the American myth of equality and justice and honor. I wonder if any generation will ever believe again. People will say it was the war that shattered our lives and laid bare the beautiful lie we’d been taught. And they’d be right. And wrong. There was so much more. It’s hard to see clearly when the world is angry and divided and you’re being lied to.” Playlist 🎶Like A Rolling Stone- Bob Dylan 🎶Jockerman- Bob Dylan 🎶Fortunate Son- Creeedence Clearwater Revival 🎶Free Bird- Lynyrd Skynyrd 🎶Have You Ever Seen The Rain- Creedence Clearwater Revival 🎶Stand By Me- Ben E King 🎶Daniel- Elton John 🎶Oh, Pretty Woman- Roy Orbison 🎶Stairway To Heaven- Led Zeppelin 🎶American Pie- Don Mclean 🎶Unchained Melody- The Righteous Brothers 🎶Brown Eyed Girl- Van Morrison 🎶Bad Moon Rising- Creedence Clearwater Revival 🎶Simple Man- Lynyrd Skynyrd 🎶I Can See Clearly Now- Johnny Nash 🎶With A Little Help From My Friends- Joe Cocker 🎶Here Comes The Sun- The Beatles Thanks for Buddy Reading with me, I had a great time crying and screaming haha PalmPages 😭💖

This book changed my life (no shock)

Five Standing Ovation Stars ⭐️ for The Women by Kristin Hannah! This book took my breath away. I can honestly say that I learned more about the men and women in Vietnam from this book than any other historical book that I have read. I will admit that the Vietnam War ended in 1975, when I was only two years old (I know, I just gave my age away), so growing up, I never really paid attention. Now that I am older, history interests me, and learning about the women in Vietnam took it to a whole other dimension. Our main character in this book is Frances (Frankie) McGrath. Frankie is very close with her brother Finley, who is in the Navy and goes off to Vietnam. Her father is so very proud of Finley, as all the men in the family are “war heroes”. Frankie decides she would like to be a hero too, just like all the other men in her family. As Frankie finishes her nursing degree, she recruits herself into the Army Nurse Corps and becomes Lieutenant Frances McGrath. As Lieutenant Frances McGrath, she is stationed in Vietnam as a surgical nurse. Frankie has two bunk mates, Ethel and Barb, who help show her the ropes and get her through some extremely rough days. As a surgical nurse, Frankie is exposed to mass casualties on a daily basis. She witnesses loss of limbs, gunshot wounds, head traumas, infections, broken bones, etc… Frankie also knows that she is the last person/girl that some of the soldiers will ever see. So Frankie takes photos with the soldiers, so their families know that their loved ones didn’t have to die alone. Frankie returns home after after serving two years in Vietnam. Her parents are ashamed of her, local citizens spit on her, she can’t find suitable employment. And the worst part? No one believes that a woman was in Vietnam! Her rages of anger and grief are uncontrollable, and no one seems to care or understand her. Frankie was told to just forget about everything that she witnessed, not think about it anymore, move forward with her life. But things weren’t so easy for Frankie. I learned some interesting and rather disturbing facts about the Vietnam War in this book. I know that they are true and a part of history, but some things are still hard to process. I don’t know how anyone can live through anything like that. To all the men and women that served- I commend you and thank you for your service! While this is a work of historical fiction, it is a book that I will not forget anytime soon. I highly recommend reading this book, and know that this book is moving into my favorite book of the year slot! While reading this book, I also recommend having tissues nearby- because trust me, you will need them. 😭 I also enjoyed reading the Author’s Note at the end, and her Acknowledgments. Kristin Hannah told how this story came to be (and how long she worked on this), and also about the POW bracelet she wore in middle school. I also needed my tissues for that. So touching! Many, many thanks to NetGalley, St. Martin’s Press, and the author for an ARC of this book which I had the pleasure of reading. All opinions are my own. Publication date: February 6, 2024. Genre~ Women’s Fiction, Historical

4.5 - 5 Stars So this was my first Kristin Hannah. I've actually had The Great Alone sitting on my shelves for years now and The Nightingale in my Audible library...and I've just never cracked them open for whatever reason. Regardless, I am happy that this book was my first foray into her writing, because it was excellent. I decided to "read a few chapters" (famous last words) at around 7:30PM last night...and ended up staying up until midnight to finish it. What a great and powerful story. I was not alive alive during the Vietnam War. But I remember its effects permeating my childhood. The grizzled, broken veterans. The stories of PTSD. I was raised on Vietnam protest music (which is still my favorite today). But most of all...My uncle fought in Vietnam. And although I never knew him before the war, obviously, my dad told me that he was never the same when he came home (lucky as he was to do so). And when I was 9-years-old he ultimately died of Leukemia that the doctors believed was related to Agent Orange...something Hannah mentioned in this book. So I've obviously thought about this era a lot. And I think this was a beautiful story that captured the confusion and duality of such a tumultuous period. I think Hannah did it justice. And I am so happy to have learned about the amazing forgotten women who served. I will definitely read more from this author and understand why she is so popular now.

Women on war and war on women. This unknown chapter of the Vietnam war was poignant and emotional. And as it told through a woman’s eyes it's concentrated more on pain, loss and pointlessness of a bloodshed. It's fast-paced story of a nurse whose journey takes her from naive rookie to a professional who found her calling in the war-torn country and to the veteran with a trauma which no one wants to acknowledge. "There were no women in Vietnam" - they say. So, she has to find her way to the healing by herself. The story has also a lot of positive insights. The author is very good in describing psychology of people at war. How despite everything they form deep connections with unlikely people that stay with them their whole life. How they try to live in spite of surrounding death. But PTSD is unavoidable. That is described very well as well. The struggle of the MC is gripping and devastating. It hurts to think how the government failed all those people. How many of them suffered in silence abandoned with no help? The book ends on a positive note cos these women helped each other, but their journey was tough and difficult - another reminder that trauma can't just be ignored and forgotten. Not all wounds are visible. Great historical novel about important and still moving topics.

“What is it good for…absolutely nothing.” - War When twenty-year-old nursing student Frankie McGrath is told by her brother’s friend that “women can be heroes too,” it sparks an indelible flame within her. When her brother is drafted to serve in the Vietnam War, she decides to enlist in the Army Nurse Corps and join him, having no idea just how much that decision will ultimately affect the course of her life. This book pays homage to the millions of vets who experienced detrimental physical and emotional damage in a widely unpopular war (not of their own volition in most cases) only to return home to public outrage. Kristin Hannah gives voice to the pain and suffering these veterans experienced post war - both the high suicide rates and the very high drug and alcohol addiction rates in a world that was only beginning to recognize PTSD. At the heart of this story though, are the women - those who served their country in the same vain as their male counterparts, and yet received none of the recognition from their fellow Veterans, including the Veterans Administration (VA) who refused them needed psychological treatment. I have read some criticism that the second part of the story has too much going on, and is too dramatic and/or all over the place. I have to very respectfully disagree. It is through the mess and the chaos (both very present in this turbulent part of history) that we see just how much the war has broken these men and women, and how hard they must work to find their way back to being whole. I chose to do an immersive read of this book, primarily because my all time favorite narrator was at the helm. Julia Whelan could not have done a better job of voicing this incredible story, these unforgettable characters, and all of the angst, tension, distress, and messiness of the times. If you could only choose one book to read immersively, make it this one. This will easily top my list of 2024 favorites. Read if you like: •learning about the Vietnam war •the turbulence of the 1960s and 1970s •strong female protagonist •coming of age stories •messy love stories •emotional reads Thank you St. Martin’s Press and Macmillan audio for my gifted copies.

This book is probably the best book I have read in a long time. I took an entire class in college called “Vietnam War as History”, that was the title of the class, and I don’t think we talked about women in the war at all. But I mean, yeah of course they were there, and of course they saw devastating things. But do we talk about them? No. Are they really recognized? Also, no. This, is, not unlike many things women do, are just overlooked. While this book is historical fiction, it is obvious that it is well researched, and many things are true. For instance, there are 8 women who died in Vietnam, and are shown on the Vietnam War memorial. Now no, out of 58,000 men, this is not a huge percentage, but women were present at the war too, and still were present, despite many being told otherwise. I loved this story of Frankies life, from naïve teenager signing up for this horrific war, to seasoned nurse coming home from the war. The war didn’t magically end for her, or many others when she got home, and neither did the horrors, they just took a different form. I’m not usually one for coming of age, or life stories, but this book was just fantastic, and I felt so strongly for Frankie I wanted to know how things turned out for her. The friendships in this book were pivotal. I don’t think that Frankie would have made it through the war without her friends, and she wouldn’t have come out the other side without them either. After the war the friendships didn’t end, they just took a different form, and they evolved. I loved that Frankie had these women in her life, and this book highlighted how important female friendships can be, and are. This is one of those books that will make you feel sad for history, glad for how far we have come for women’s rights and give you an idea for how far we need to go. This book invoked so many strong feelings in me as I was reading it. Despite it being almost 500 pages, I didn’t want it to end, and I didn’t want to put it down, it was that good. Kristin Hannah is my go-to historical fiction author, and for good reason, her books are fabulous, and this one is no different. This book is going to stick with me for a long time. I don’t normally order books that I have already read, as I don’t re-read, but I’m making an exception to this one. This is probably going to be one, if not the one, top read of the year. It’s worth owning. Buy it, read it, learn more. This is a book that I will be recommending for years to come. It’s a must read. Thank you so much to St. Martin’s Press, @Stmartinspress and Netgalley @Netgalley for this e-arc in exchange for an honest review. This book will be featured on my blog, speedreadstagram.com on publication day. Publication Date: February 6, 2023

“The women had a story to tell, even if the world wasn't quite yet ready to hear it, and their story began with three simple words. We were there.” I'm running out of words to describe my love for Kristin Hannah, I'm completely enamoured with her writing. This book was phenomenal and a must read — even if you're not a historical fiction lover, do yourself a favour and pick one of her books up in your lifetime and you won't regret it. Each story transports you through a passage of time and makes you introspect. This book captured my attention from the very first page and I devoured all 470 pages in a day. ╰⪼ The Women is set during the Vietnam war, but most importantly, the aftermath of the war was depicted as you experience the horrendous way women and veterans were treated when they returned home from war. This is a story of resilience and the unmeasurable power of friendship. I loved that this story not only touched on the impact to the American soldiers but also the Vietnamese villages, women and children who also suffered so greatly. — I'm completely blown away by the FMC, Frankie. Frankie is a young combat nurse, who volunteered in the Vietnam war to be with her brother, help people and make her family proud. I have so much respect for her and what she went though. Her story covers grief, mental health, addiction, alcoholism, love, loss and utter devastation. How she managed to get by in the face of adversity is beyond my comprehension because I wouldn't have the strength. Kristin Hannah's dedication to telling women's stories, otherewise referred to as the lost stories, is unmatched. The amount of research and level of detail in her stories make you feel like you're experiencing all the tragedy along with these characters, but she somehow leaves a glimmer of hope for the future. She matches the destruction with equally beautiful moments. Frankie's story deserved to be heard because there are many Frankie's in the world who could do with some compassion. — Towards the end of this story I was so angry and I've felt that way ever since I finished it. Frankie deserved so much better and while I wish her ending played out differently, It ended the way it should have. Her whole life and personality were centred around a series of events, but she managed to push through and find herself after being torn apart from the inside. — Having read 4 of her books now, I did guess the reveal in the last chapter but the earlier revelations were a shock to me. While this story might feel like a continuous stream of trauma - it is unfortunately a very real reality. I'm glad she left the door open for hope in the ending but mostly, I'm glad Frankie became her own hero. This is a truly inspiring read. I recommend also reading the The Great Alone either before or after this one for an enhanced experience. My KH rankings ➸ The Great Alone - 5 stars ➸ The Women - 5 stars ➸ The Nightingale - 4.5 stars ➸ The Four Winds - 4.25 stars ➸ Homefront - 4 stars Quotes: “Women can be heroes.” “Words were creators of worlds; you had to be careful with them.” “In this crazy, chaotic, divided world that was run by men, you could count on the women.” “Nurses back in the world are second-class citizens. And, big surprise—they’re mostly women. Men keep us in boxes, make us wear starched virgin white, and tell us that docs are gods. And the worst part is, we believe them.” “This war has … stretched the generation gap so wide that it threatens to pull the country apart.” “We love you, and if we don’t say it often enough, it is because we grew up in families where there was no such vocabulary.” ——— Post read: she delivered once again 😭 ⎯⎯ ୨ Pre-review: ୧ ⎯⎯ Kristin, come break my heart again. I want to feel something 🤭

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ (5/5 Historical Fiction) Kristen Hannah is a masterful storyteller. If you are a lover of historical fiction, Kristin Hannah is probably an auto-read author for you. If you normally shy away from historical fiction but are interested in trying it out, I would start with one of her books. Her ability to transport the reader to another time and immerse you in the culture of the era is unmatched. I find I always leave her books heartbroken, hopeful, and hungry for more, and The Women is no exception. This story focuses on 20-year-old Frankie McGrath, who decides to leave her idyllic life as a dutiful daughter and sister in Coronado, California, and enlist in the Army Nurse Corps. While the book is focused on Frankie, it really tells the story of the often unsung heroes of the war: the women who were in Vietnam. We get to experience Frankie’s journey to the war zone, her time there, and the heartbreaking return home. Hannah’s books are simultaneously long yet quick reads. Her characters get their hooks in you, and it’s hard to think of anything else. I love historical fiction because it teaches you so much while telling a very entertaining story. It combines the best parts of non-fiction and fiction wrapped together. The Women is definitely a heavier read, but I can’t recommend it enough. It’s the perfect book club book. What’s your favorite Kristin Hannah book?! I need to add more of her work to my TBR!

✩ 4.5 stars ✩ “The women had a story to tell, even if the world wasn't quite yet ready to hear it, and their story began with three simple words. We were there.” What to Expect: ➼ Historical Fiction ➼ Vietnam War ➼ Strong Female Characters ➼ Army Nurse Corps ➼ Found Family/Sisterhood ➼ Emotional Read ➼ PTSD & Mental Health ➼ Grief, Trauma, & Healing The Vietnam War was before my time, but I have been to Vietnam where I toured the War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh and stood inside the Cu Chi Tunnels once used by the Viet Cong. Being in that place, meeting some of its people, and seeing that dense jungle for myself made this story feel that much more real and personal to me. War is a terrible thing and it is impossible to truly comprehend the expansive reach of its impact, but through books, we can work towards gaining a sliver of understanding. I have taken several days to sit with my thoughts on The Women. It was a highly emotional read and initially I felt overwhelmed, not only by the chaos and destruction of war, but by the level of personal devastation that was inflicted upon Frankie, our MC. There were a few points where I did feel that the author had taken things a little too far. It’s not that I don’t think the events in the story were realistic. On the contrary, I feel confident that everything Frankie endured sadly did happen - but I don’t think any one person experienced almost every possible trauma to this degree. I was constantly cycling through worst case scenarios to try to predict what the author would throw at her next. It was a story that felt designed to shock readers and produce an emotional response and I felt that Frankie’s response to the betrayal she experienced was disproportionately devastating when compared to how she coped with her time in Vietnam and her return to the States. I have come to the conclusion that Frankie embodied the collective trauma of everyone who fought and served. While I wish the author had doled out the suffering between a few characters rather than concentrating it all on Frankie, there is no denying that this was a powerful read. Ultimately, I think it did exactly what the author intended for it to do. It made readers think, perhaps for the first time, about the women. The women who risked their lives to help. The true patriots who believed in the cause and wanted to do their part to serve their country. The women who made the difference between life and death for so many soldiers and bore witness to an unfathomable amount of loss and devastation along the way. The women whose struggles continued even after the war ended. I found Frankie’s struggle to find help when she was battling depression and PTSD particularly disturbing. I can’t even imagine how devastating it would feel to be turned away in those critical moments. The idea that real women experienced similar road blocks and judgments after returning from war makes me so incredibly sad. I can only imagine how lonely it would feel to try to navigate PTSD on your own before we even had a name for it. I wish I could say that I thought we had learned from our past mistakes, but as a Counselor, I know how stigmatized mental health still is and I think we still have a long way to go. I spent this past weekend at home with family, and we talked about The Women. We talked about the war, and we remembered them. I imagine this book has invoked similar conversations all over the world and that is a beautiful and powerful thing. This was a very impactful book that will no doubt become a classic that will still be read a hundred years from now and beyond. I usually choose books that bring me joy and this was not that, but it did remind me why historical fiction will always be the exception. ❤️ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ Pre-read: I waited literal months for this and now I have zero interest in reading it. 😆 I honestly don’t doubt that it will be a great read, but war time historical fiction is just not my summer vibe. No Libby hold wasted though! Gonna push through!

I genuinely don't think I will ever recover? One of the, if not THE best book I've ever read.

Undeniably one of the best books I have ever read in my life. This is hands down my favorite Kristin Hannah book yet, I would give this infinity stars if I could! This will undoubtedly be in my top reads of 2024 (if not #1) The Women is truly a work of art; a masterpiece to read. This story is raw, painful, beautiful, and thought-provoking. It's clear that extensive research has gone into making this book possible to allow for such an accurate description/portrayal of this time period. I love that Kristin Hannah was able to give us such a deeply moving book set during a war/time period that is far less commonly spoken about than others. The voice she gives to the women who served in Vietnam through Frankie’s story is remarkable. I also appreciated the ability to gain a deeper understanding of what Vietnam was like for all who served. You can expect to read about deeply strong bonds/friendships between women, self- discovery, trauma and it’s lasting impacts, vivid depiction of mental health/PTSD/addiction struggles veterans face, and an overall journey of character growth that is realistic, raw, and unforgettable. This book hit home for me many times, as my grandfather served in the Army during the Vietnam War. He is one of the lucky ones who made it back home, despite having an extremely close call with being thrown out of a helicopter. He is not one to talk about his time in the military, and this book was able to give me insight into the gut-wrenching experiences he likely endured during his time there. Every emotion imaginable was experienced while reading this. I cried upwards of 10 times while reading this (yes I kept count), and I am truly just so grateful for the journey Kristin Hannah put her heart and soul into taking us on with his book. The Women will hold a special place in my heart forever, this is not the type of story that will be forgotten easily.

I absolutely loved this book! It brought back so many memories of that time in my life. I was in high school when the Vietnam War was happening. So many of the boys that I was friends with were so nervous about what draft numbers they would be assigned. I was so relieved to discover that my own brother had gotten a very high number and that his hearing loss was significant enough to eliminate him from being sent to Vietnam. I remember that my friends and I had all purchased POW bracelets and wore them every day no matter what. The 1960’s through the 1970’s was a very volatile time. The spread of communism was a major concern, the assassination of President Kennedy was still fresh on everyone’s minds and then the draft was established for Vietnam and so many young boys were called upon to serve their country. As I look back now, especially after reading The Women by Kristin Hannah, I have to admit that I knew so little about what really occurred during that war, especially to the women who served so courageously. Frances “Frankie” McGrath was brought up on Coronado Island. Frankie and her older brother, Finley, were as close as any brother and sister could be. Finley had just been enlisted by the Navy to serve his country in Vietnam. Frankie’s parents had thrown a party for Finley to celebrate his departure. During the party, Frankie found herself in her father’s office. Above her father’s desk was the “wall of heroes”. All the men in Frankie’s family that had bravely fought in a war were represented on that wall. It was that particular night that Frankie decided that her picture would also hang among the other heroes in her family. Frankie had recently completed her nursing degree and was working in a hospital. She would volunteer to become a nurse in Vietnam. Frankie was discouraged at first when the Navy, Air Force and Marines told her that she needed to complete at least two years of training stateside before they would even consider sending Frankie to Vietnam, and then it was still doubtful. Not ready to give up, Frankie went to the army recruitment center and was met with positive results. Frankie was recruited by the army and was leaving for Vietnam in a couple of weeks. From now on, Frankie would be known as Lieutenant Frances McGrath. Frankie’s parents were not pleased with her decision. They argued that girls had no place in war. Why had she chosen to do this? There was no talking her out of it. When Frankie arrived in Vietnam as part of the Army Nurse Corps, she immediately questioned her decision for coming to this country. She had not known what she was expecting but it was not what she saw. There was no easing her way into things. Frankie was immediately made a surgical nurse even though she had no prior training. Any amount of training, though, could never had prepared Frankie for the severity of wounds that she would encounter in Vietnam. They were gruesome and terrifying but Frankie had to make herself numb to the things she saw. Frankie had to learn how to assist the surgeon she was working with and hold the hands of too many dying soldiers. She never imagined that Vietnam would be this bad. Her two bunk members, Ethel and Barb, became her best friends and saviors. The three women developed the kind of friendship that lasted a lifetime. Frankie had originally signed up for one tour or a year’s commitment but near the end of her first year, Frankie knew she could not go home yet. They needed her in Vietnam. She had become an excellent surgical nurse. Even though Frankie was affected by the bombs, the many orphaned and injured children that were brought to the triage center and the numerous deaths she was made to witness, Frankie was proud of all the accomplishments and differences she had made in Vietnam. It was finally time for Frankie to leave Vietnam and go home to Coronado Island. Both Ethel and Barb had been stateside for a while. When Frankie’s plane landed and she exited the plane, she was not expecting what awaited her. As she made her way off the plane, a large group of protesters were gathered. Frankie was spit at, avoided, called out for killing women and children and told to go back to where she came from. There were no “thank you for serving her country “ or any words of appreciation for her service. This was not anything Frankie could have anticipated. Even Frankie’s parents were embarrassed by her time she served in Vietnam. They would not recognize or honor Frankie’s time in Vietnam. Frankie had a hard time adjusting to civilian life. Every time she heard a loud noise she thought she was back in Vietnam under attack. Frankie was having difficulty sleeping without waking up from terrifying nightmares about Vietnam. The worst thing about being home was that no one believed her when she told them she was in Vietnam. If Frankie heard one more person say, “ there were no women in Vietnam “ she would scream. Not only was she there but she saved more lives than she ever expected to, lost too many friends and survived to come home. Frankie was not the young naive girl she was when she left anymore. Vietnam had changed her. Why did everyone Frankie came in contact with deny that women had served in Vietnam? When I discovered that Kristin Hannah had written a new book I was so excited! The Women was such a moving book. I was totally captivated by the premise for this book especially since it explored the role of women in the Vietnam War. Never once, had I ever heard the mention of any women or any of their contributions in this war. I applaud Kristin Hannah for her meticulous research and for bringing these incredible, brave and courageous women to life and for telling their stories. The Women was about bravery, friendships, family, dangers, courage, PTSD, adjustments, acceptance, learning how to move on, substance abuse and the effects of war. I listened to the audiobook that was brilliantly read by Julia Whelan, one of my most favorite narrators. In my opinion, The Woman was one of the best books that Kristin Hannah has ever written. It touched all my emotions. I thought I knew a lot about the Vietnam War but apparently I was mistaken. The brave women who placed their lives in danger and gave selfishly to help the wounded have earned my respect and honor. Thank you for all you did and for all you suffered when you returned home. Kristin Hannah’s author note at the conclusion of The Women was inspiring and very informative. The Women was a true five star book for me and I highly recommend it. Thank you to Macmillan Audio for allowing me to listen to the audiobook of The Women by Kristin Hannah through Netgalley in exchange for an honest and voluntary review.

5,000⭐️! The Women is one of the best books I’ve ever read. I don’t think any book will top this in 2025, and it’s only the beginning of January. I hate books about war, but I LOVE books about women. This was expertly executed and brought awareness to all the women who served in the Vietnam War. This book is going to stay with me long after finishing. I am feeling all the feels - sadness, grief, anger… This was probably not a good book to read while being seven months pregnant, but it was a remarkable story. Give this a listen on audio because it’s narrated by Julia Whelan!

“The women had a story to tell, even if the world wasn’t quite yet ready to hear it, and their story began with three simple words. We were there.” 🇺🇸💔 This book will wreck you emotionally in the best way possible. 😭📖 As someone in healthcare and currently a nursing student, I connected so deeply with this story. It really puts into perspective how women—especially those who served in war—have always been undervalued. Frankie’s journey was devastating and eye-opening, and I felt for her every step of the way. One of the hardest truths this book exposes is how horribly our government treats veterans. 💔 They’re sent off to war, only to be discarded when they return. It’s heartbreaking, and women veterans were erased even more than the men. The way Frankie was shunned at the VA? Infuriating. 😤 She gave everything, and they still turned her away. I also went into this book knowing very little about the Vietnam War, and it filled in so many gaps for me. 🇻🇳 It gave me a whole new level of appreciation for veterans and made me more aware of things I’d never even considered—like how triggering something as simple as the Fourth of July can be for them. This book makes you see things differently, and I loved every moment of it. Frankie’s life was a never-ending rollercoaster of hardship, and I screamed at this book more times than I can count. 😩 But I’m so grateful she had Barb and Ethel. Their friendship was everything. 💕 And despite everything, I’m glad she found a way to heal and pay it forward. This was so different from my usual reads, but I can confidently say I’ll be reading more historical fiction now. I used to think it would feel like a boring school assignment—but I was so wrong. This book was powerful, emotional, and unforgettable. It’s a must-read and one I’ll be recommending to everyone. 🙌🏾✨

'The women had a story to tell, even if the world wasn't quite ready to hear it, and their story began with three simple words. We were there'. When I decided to read The Women, I did so with the understanding that it was by Kristin Hannah, that it had been resoundingly applauded by an entire gamut of readers, and that it told of women's involvement in the Vietnam War. What I did not anticipate was the spectrum of war that it covered, including the political facets of US history at that time, all of which mobilised in such a way as to assault the reader and capture them within the heart of the era. Francis (Frankie) McGrath lived a sheltered, privileged life in Southern California. Soon she would be finishing her nursing degree and, if her mother had anything to do with it, getting married. But after her brother shipped out to Vietnam, sending postcards of the lush landscape, filled with boisterous anecdotes of camaraderie, she too signs on, 'She'd joined the Army to find her brother and found herself instead; in war, she'd found out who she really was and who she wanted to be...'. However terrible the sights. smells and sounds of the war were, for Frankie, the war really begins when she attempts to find acceptance, regard, and fulfillment when she gets back home. 'We are the women who went to war - the nurses of Vietnam - and many of us felt silenced at home. We lost who we were and who we wanted to be'.

Every time I read a book from Kristin Hannah, the same thing happens in my thought pattern: "Wow... such a difficult topic, will I enjoy it? Oh, so long..... I prefer somewhat shorter novels... should I do this now or wait?" When The Women became available from NetGalley, I clicked request and was awarded a copy. I pulled it up this week in my queue and decided to take it on, even though it was focused on the Vietnam War, and I don't enjoy reading those kinds of books. Twenty percent in, I was totally hooked and unable to stop reading it. Work got in the way this week, but I hit fifty percent before bed last night and took on the rest this morning. From start to finish, I was enamored with Frankie, the protagonist, a nineteen-year-old girl from California who signs up to be a nurse when her brother is killed in Vietnam. Hannah thoroughly entertains and tugs at a reader's heartstrings. How much suffering can one person endure? The war is the focus; don't think it's only part of the book. Although Frankie returns home, she witnesses endless trauma and heartbreak. It's the right amount to show the truth of what happened but also not make her an exaggerated character. She tries so hard to always do the right thing yet the world spins around her with its own intentions, flawed and furious, as she lands on her feet on some occasions and into despair on others. She's a tragic heroine who needed someone to rescue her when she couldn't help herself. Don't misunderstand, she's a true formidable force and motivates herself quite often... but Vietnam impacted her ability to always find her own strength. Her besties help ground her. Her parents are typical in that they don't support her but occasionally surprise readers with good intentions. Frankie's romantic relationships are innocent and heartfelt but ruined and built on lies. I could go on and on, but I'll stop and leave you with a few key thoughts. This is an amazing story filled with a range of emotions that will leave readers more connected to history than they thought they could be. It's not about war but it is about war, and there are moments when you need to put the book down to recover your senses and summon an ability to heal the rawness. But there are tender moments where you just want to hug Frankie and tell her she's the best kind of person, despite the problems she causes to her own sense of purpose. It made me think about how I view people and whether I'm not doing enough to help others around me... and that's when you know it's a five-star book.

It’s been a long time since I have read a historical fiction book that I loved this much. ❤️ This has all the feels. Horror, sadness, anger, hope, love, laughter and my gosh the friendship!! 😍 The women 💪 I can’t recommend this one enough ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️!!

Okay but why did this book have to rip my heart out and stomp on it like that 😭

—— ⊹₊⟡⋆ five shiny stars ౨ৎ ─ ⟡ Love. A thing to be shouted from the rooftops, celebrated, not cultivated in secret and clipped into shape in the dark. This is one of those book that makes it hard to put your feelings into words — it’s almost impossible 🥲 but i’ll try my best (not me almost crying while writing this review) The main plot line WAS the Vietnam War and its aftermath & consequences but it was more than that. It was about how strong can friendships be. It was about how lies can destroy, hurt, and manipulate. It was about how can something affect someone, TRAUMATIZE them, and the different ways to deal with it — in good ways, in bad ways… and it left me with a gaping hole in my chest. But i’m very grateful for reading this & i would do it again and again and again and again because what an absolute masterpiece this book is. ─ ⟡ ”Welcome to the Thirty-Sixth Evac Hospital, McGrath. Be the best version of yourself.” frankie I was so incredibly proud of my girl — others doubted her so often, told her what to do & how to do it, but she didn’t give up. She stayed strong even if she didn’t have strength — for herself, and for others, who needed her to be strong. She always stood up for herself and didn’t let anyone tell her who she should be – my girl truly deserves the world. Becoming a nurse? A war nurse? Being spat on? Called baby killer? While saving hundreds, no, THOUSANDS of lives of both american soldiers & vietnam villagers? While risking your life, being at stake every second of every day, with minimal to none sleep, saving dying soldiers without electricity while the whole building is fucking CRUMBLING from bombs that are being thrown at the hospital? Left me kinda speechless NGL. Before i accidentally spoil the whole book to you let me warn you about trigger warnings😭 please check them out before reading this i wouldn’t want to traumatize anyone.😭😭 ─ ⟡ ”Yeah. You gotta be careful. Over here, the men lie and they die.” barb & ethel (aka girlfriends) Wonder women. I respect & love them soooo freaking much bc of the way they treated and cared about frankie and those three ladies over here? Let me tell you — an ABSOLUTE QUEENS. Without a discussion. They held each other up both physically and mentally in times where it was difficult to tell if they’ll survive and live another day. If they are going to be shot down. Or buried under some ruins while helping others. But they kept laughing, kept loving, kept holding together, because that’s what kept them sane. And i am so so proud of my girls. There were other characters that played a big role in her life but i want to keep this review as spoiler free as possible so :) Overall, if you are very sensitive soul and have a problem with tw’s or war in particular or don’t like historical fiction, i wouldn’t recommend this to you, but if you’re okay with all of it and like/love historical fiction — please please PLEASEEE pick this book up and read it! <3 (u don’t have to but lol yk) I absolutely loved it and i hope you will too. ─ ⟡ ”Women can be heroes.” ─ ⟡ ”In this crazy, chaotic, divided world that was run by men, you could count on the women.” ─ ⟡ ”That was the starting and ending point in life: love. The journey was everything in between.” ─ ⟡ ”This war has … stretched the generation gap so wide that it threatens to pull the country apart.” ─ ⟡ ”Maybe that was a fundamental truth: War looked one way for those who saw it from a safe distance. Close up, the view was different.” ─ ⟡ ”The women had a story to tell, even if the world wasn’t quite yet ready to hear it, and their story began with three simple words. We were there.” ─ ⟡ ”Most of us have made too many decisions based on other people. We need to do what we need to do. But we’ve been silenced for too long, invisible for too many years.” i have no idea what to say bc my mind and my emotional state are in a disastrous condition atm „War was full of goodbyes, and most of them never really happened; you were always too early or too late.” ꒰ pre read 💌⋆.˚ ꒱ “… is the story of one woman gone to war, but it shines a light on all women who put themselves in harm’s way and whose sacrifices and commitment to their country has too often been forgotten.” yes please. Ma’am — destroy me.

To say this book was amazing would be an understatement. I don’t normally read a lot of historical fiction, because the ones we read in school growing up were boring. This is the type of historical fiction we should have been reading. Beautiful, raw, romantic, and horrifying. Before this book, I never really thought much about the Vietnam war. It was before my time. I knew in general that a lot of veterans of that war experienced severe injuries and PTSD. Reading this was eye opening to how traumatizing that war was for so many. The women nurses working amongst that much death- I don’t know how they got through it. And to come home and not get the resources or respect they deserved- just so horrible. This book is a beautiful masterpiece. Frankie was so brave and also so broken. I will be thinking about this book for a long time.

For a full spoiler version of this review, please check out my book review blog here: https://spoiledbooks.blogspot.com/ (link fixed!) Wow. Just… wow. I never expected to be completely absorbed by a Vietnam War story, but Kristin Hannah had me from page one. The Women shines a light on the nurses of Vietnam — brave, exhausted, and overlooked — while also weaving heartbreak, love, and the personal struggles of war into a story that’s impossible to put down. Verdict: Gut-wrenching, unforgettable, and beautifully written — one of the best books I’ve ever read. 5/5 stars. Check out my review on Firefly Lane Check out my review on The Great Alone

When last seen in The Firm: A Novel, Mitch McDeere and his wife Abby were fleeing Memphis with the bad guys in hot pursuit. Now they’re back, fifteen years later, and living in New York where Mitch is an international lawyer and a partner in a mega-firm. His work takes him across the globe, and not always to safe places. During a trip to Libya, his trusted associate is kidnapped, and an execution is threatened unless an enormous ransom is paid. Only Mitch can facilitate the exchange and I hope readers have as much fun with the novel as I am writing it.

The Exchange by John Grisham is a fast-paced legal thriller that brings back familiar characters and plunges them into high-stakes international intrigue. It’s a gripping sequel that blends courtroom drama with global suspense. This is the second book in The Firm series, but can be read as a standalone. Perfect for anyone new to Grisham or die-hard fans like me!

Simon Latch is a down on his luck small town lawyer. His marriage is failing, he’s barely scraping by financially, has a little gambling habit, and is spending his nights on a cot in his office. Then in walks Eleanor. She is 85, a multi-millionaire widow, heiress to a fortune that no one else knows about. She has no family, no friends, and she wants Simon to draft her will. His heart is in the right place, but with more dollar signs in his eyes than common sense, Simon sees an opportunity to turn his luck around and Eleanor is his ticket to the good life. Well, nothing is as it seems and soon Simon finds himself the only suspect in a murder investigation. The last 50% of the book is a whodunit as well as a legal thriller. The courtroom scenes were tense and riveting. This is trademark Grisham at his finest with a great setting, well-developed characters, and a compelling mystery. Excellent! The ending was brilliant and could be a ripped from the headlines scenario. It confirmed why I’ve been a Grisham fan for decades. The audiobook narration by Michael Beck is excellent. * I received a digital review copy from NetGalley. All opinions are my own

the setup… Simon Latch is a small town lawyer with a modest practice in Braxton, Virginia. He specializes in the simple stuff like bankruptcies and wills, barely enough to pay the bills. Simon’s marriage is crumbling and he has a slight gambling habit. Everything changes when Eleanor Barnett walks into his office. She’s an elderly widow with a stunning investment portfolio no one is aware of and wants to redo her will. Seeing the possibility of his fortunes changing, Simon stealthily goes about doing what he needs to do until Eleanor has a car accident and lands in the hospital. Her story starts to fall apart and suddenly Simon finds himself on trial for a murder he didn’t commit. the heart of the story… The thing about Simon is even though his greed drove his agenda with Eleanor, he wasn’t a bad guy, just someone who isn’t shy about operating in the gray. He was kindly towards Eleanor, even when he began to suspect her portfolio might not be what she claimed. Simon might be small town but he’s highly resourceful and smart, despite being possibly duped. the narration… Michael Beck delivered the most brilliant performance on every level. Bravo! the bottom line… This is classic Grisham, the one who set me on my path to loving legal thrillers, starting with The Firm. The pacing is perfect, the setting is a vital element and the characters so well developed you can visualize all of them. The courtroom drama is superb. Almost 15 hours of serious book love. Posted on Blue Mood Café (Thanks to Random House Audio and Libro.fm for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)

Nobody does a legal thriller better than John Grisham. I am a long time fan and will read anything this man writes. There is a mixture of the legal side and a murder mystery in The Widow.. what fun!! A small time lawyer with his life falling apart around him suddenly sees a light at the end of the tunnel when a new elderly client comes to him to help him with her will. This begins a series of questions and very few answers. When the client ends up in hospital things really do ramp up. It is a slow burn to begin with but trust me stay with it, a twisty and shocking ride is ahead. Grishams writing is just brilliant as always. The reader really does get to know the main characters so well, and I started to feel very protective of Simon, despite all his flaws. I read it is 2 sittings, as always completely caught up in the story. Another triumph and one I could see on the big screen one day. I do love a down and out lawyer fighting for the little guy. Easy 5 stars from me. Thank you so much to Doubleday Books for this early copy to read. I devoured it and highly recommend. Published on October 21st.

I definitely enjoyed this latest legal thriller by Grisham. A case of wrongfully convicted murder case told beautifully by the author. The storylines were filled with fascinating twists & turns. The main characters including the protagonist, Simon Hatch, were interesting & fun to root for. I love the ending. Although it was expected, I have to admit, the ending was very satisfying… I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.

I just finished reading “The Widow” by John Grisham. It struck me how it seems like only yesterday that I picked up his very first book and found myself completely absorbed. All these years later, his storytelling still pulls me in. This one held my interest throughout as I kept waiting for a fortune to appear. The suspense kept me right on the edge of my chair. If you are looking for a good summer read, this would be an excellent choice. I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible. The book is fourteen hours and twenty-three minutes. Michael Beck does an excellent job narrating the story.

The Widow is another fantastic addition to John Grisham’s already legendary body of work — and this time, he ventures into classic whodunit territory with absolute finesse. Grisham proves he’s just as skilled at building suspense and mystery as he is at crafting courtroom drama. The pacing is taut, the characters are deeply compelling, and the small-town atmosphere crackles with tension. The twists are smart and well-timed, keeping you guessing until the very end. It’s refreshing to see Grisham step into a new subgenre and absolutely own it. The Widow might be his first whodunit, but I hope it’s not his last. Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for this early release in exchange for my honest review. To be published Oct 2025.

With The Widow, John Grisham follows his usual trademark style -- a long, detailed lead-up to a tense confrontation with a satisfactory conclusion. But with a twist. His last book was nonfiction, Framed: Astonishing True Stories of Wrongful Convictions, a collaboration with Jim McCloskey. So for the first time in his career, Grisham has written a whodunnit instead of a catch-em-that-dunnit or a whydunnit, with the added overlay of the possible conviction of an innocent man. Enough has been written in blurbs about the plotline, so I'll just add that Simon Latch, Grisham's creation, is a flawed but immediately sympathetic character, a worthy addition who loves his kids and tries to do the right thing even if it isn't always for the right reasons. Grisham also manages to sneak in his love for sports, most notably NCAA March Madness. Loved this.

Grisham, once again, proves why he’s the master of the legal thriller in The Widow. This time, he slows the pace and leans into mystery, delivering a whodunit wrapped in grief, greed, and quiet revenge. At the center is a small-town lawyer suddenly thrust into the fight of his life, defending himself against a murder charge that could strip away everything he holds dear. What makes this one stand out is the emotional depth woven into the courtroom tension. Grisham explores how loss and desperation can expose the darkest corners of justice and human nature. It’s a slow burn, but one that builds steadily toward a finale that’s both satisfying and thought-provoking. Classic Grisham with a sharper emotional edge! 🎧 Narrator, Michael Beck has a calm, steady tone which captures both the heartbreak and the quiet suspense. His performance feels effortless and deeply human. He's the perfect match for this story and made it easy to listen to for long stretches.

He’s back! John Grisham has written another page-turning legal thriller that is billed as his first whodunit mystery. The author starts with an innocent old widow lady, her two rotten stepsons and Simon, a lawyer with a bushel load of personal problems. Into this perfectly awful situation, Grisham throws a few twists and plenty of intrigue to keep a reader’s attention. The courtroom dialogue is some of his best writing, and these characters are unforgettable. Poor old Simon, I have to cheer for him—misjudged, misunderstood, and mistreated. He wants retribution, and I want it for him. Two former lady loves, both classy women, are pulling for him, too. John Grisham is a great storyteller, and this novel takes me back to his early writings, to the style of courtroom drama that kept me on the edge of my seat.

John Grisham is one of my all time favourite authors and this new book is Mr Grisham at his best, it reminded me of some of his very early books. I was drawn into the story from page one of this captivating legal/courtroom drama which is also filled whodunit mystery. Eleanor (Netty) Barnett is a new client for lawyer Simon Latch, she is an elderly widow, 85 years old, she claims her late husband left his entire estate to her, $20 million dollars is her estimated worth, she wants Simon to rewrite her will. Simon sees £ signs, he is financially struggling, is a gambler, has debts and is facing divorce. He is calculating some nice fees for himself. Eleanor is a character, she keeps her wealth a secret, lives simply, tells Simon her previous lawyer Wally Thackerman, whom Simon knows, was planning to steal her money. Over a period of 9 months she takes up a lot of Simon’s time, he takes her to lunch regularly, he always picks up the tab, he discusses his fees a few times with her and probes gently for evidence of the millions. Eleanor is in a car accident, she was the driver, she is in hospital, battered and bruised. Everything begins to fall apart for Simon when she dies under suspicious circumstances, there is a police investigation, an autopsy reveals Eleanor was poisoned and Simon is accused of murder! Simon is the accused at the trial and he is also running his own investigation to find the true killer, he may be guilty of greed, although he was never paid by Eleanor for any of his work, but he is not a killer, he is fighting for his life, his freedom. A brilliant tale, woven together very cleverly. A definite best seller for John Grisham. A top read in 2025. Many thanks to Hodder & Stoughton for an ARC of this book in exchange for a review. A sixth star is needed.

It's been a while since I read a book I really, really didn't want to put down. When I find one, it's likely to be by one of my favorite authors like the prolific Mr. Grisham - but even he outdid himself on this one. It's a titch off center from his usual fare, but viva la difference. Simon Latch has a decent but boring life as an attorney in backwoods Virginia, struggling to keep his office open and his long-time secretary Matilda paid after 18 years. To keep his sanity, he's also a sort of under-the-table gambler whose losses typically outweigh his wins. Then one day, in walks elderly Eleanor Barnett, who claims to need a new will. So what, Simon says (to himself, which is a good thing since the old bag also claims to be loaded. Her late husband, it seems, racked up a fortune in corporate stock before he died - and also told her he didn't want either of his two grown sons to inherit a cent. She's got a will drawn up by an attorney across the street, but she's not happy with it and wants Simon to write a new one that will make the previous one - even though it also excludes her stepsons - null and void. Simon's nose does twitch a bit at her story, but that's soon overwhelmed by the smell of financial opportunity. He can, he decides, draw up a better will - one that gives the bulk of her money to the charities she wants, but also provide a more than comfortable future for him (make that way more). First, though, he needs to gain her full confidence (not to mention rack up fees and expenses) as well as details she's reluctant to reveal about her financial situation. So for a time, he becomes a frequent companion, making sure she gets where she wants to go and eating what she wants to eat - while his nose twitches with every dollar spent. Then comes a major roadblock; she's hospitalized as a result of an auto accident. And from that point on, Simon's life takes on a life of its own - ending with his realization that in many ways he's been had and his arrest for a murder he didn't commit. At that point, my job as a reviewer is done - just as Simon's terror that his life outside jail will be over unless he can somehow prove his innocence begins. How he tries that - and whether or not he's successful, makes up the rest of the book and is for readers to learn (as well, of course, as the juicy and intriguing details of everything I spoke of in previous paragraphs). In the end, it's an engrossing tale told by a master of engrossing tales. My advice? Don't miss it. And while I'm still writing, I'll say many thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for the pre-release copy. Loved it!

This author has been producing legal thrillers for many years and “The Widow” is both in this category and also a murder mystery. Simon Latch is a lawyer just about scraping a living in a small town in Virginia. He has gambling debts and a divorce on the horizon. When 85 year old widow, Eleanor Barnett, walks into his office to rewrite her will he thinks it will be a straightforward job. However it soon becomes apparent that Eleanor has a lot more in the way of assets and Simon thinks she might be the answer to his money problems. He befriends her, redoes her will and decides to bide his time, hoping to eventually cash in. Unfortunately Eleanor suddenly passes away and after an investigation, Simon is accused of her murder. He swears he did not do it but he has motive and opportunity. At first the reader is not sure whether to believe his protestations of innocence but as the novel progresses it seems that Simon might really be innocent. This is a typical Grisham with some great court room scenes but also plenty of mystery as Simon and his colleagues try to solve the mystery of the murder. There are few suspects and little in the way of motive so the task does prove difficult. This was an enjoyable and compelling read- I did sympathise with Simon but he did not help himself throughout most of the novel, a gambling habit and excess greed are not pleasant attributes. I raced through the book and would recommend it to mystery and legal thriller fans. Thanks to NetGalley and the publishers for my advance copy.

Generally speaking, I'm not fond of "period" stories; when I do tackle them, they're more often set in the future than the past. This series is an exception - and a wonderful one at that. I loved would-be private eye Aloysius Archer from the git-go (which was in the first book of the series, One Good Deed), and I love him here as well. The period is in the late '40s, when Archer (he tends to avoid mentioning his given name) has just been released from jail for a crime he insists he didn't commit and is headed for California to look for private investigator Willie Dash, under whose tutelage he hopes to learn the ropes and carve out a new and potentially rewarding career for himself. As a World War II vet, he's seen plenty of action, so he figures he can withstand a little danger here and there. He makes a pitstop in Reno, where he lands some money and a rare bright red 1939 Delahaye convertible (note: Google this car - you gotta see this baby to believe it). Archer also meets up with feisty actress wannabe named Liberty Callahan, who, as luck would have it, is headed to California as well and joins him for the last leg of the journey. A few experiences later, they land in Bay Town, overlooking the vast Pacific Ocean; here, Archer finds his mentor and Liberty finds a decent job as a singer/dancer at a local saloon to tide her over till she moves on to the Hollywood scene. Willie is happy with Archer, but with the town, not so much. It's run, for the most part, by a filthy rich family, and the son-in-law of the head honcho is running for mayor against a local dentist. But the family guy is a blackmail target - accused of bedding one of the "girls" from the saloon. He denies the allegations, of course, and has hired Willie to get to the bottom of things. Willie, in turn, puts Archer on the case; when the saloon woman turns up murdered, things start to heat up and the bad guys start packing heat. It doesn't take long, though, for Archer to discover not only that there's much more at stake here than a mayoral race, but that some people will take extreme measures to bring his investigation efforts to a halt. The rest of the story is riddled with bullets, dead bodies and wrongdoing of all kinds, but it all gets sorted out in the end thanks mostly to Archer. It's a great follow-up to the first one, and I hope the author wastes no time coming up with the third. Well done!

Archer is heading to California and a possible job as a Private Eye. In Reno, he wins big and finds himself behind the wheel of an exotic car and woman. Together they head west to find their fortune. Archer finds things are as dirty in California as anywhere in the world, but that makes good business for a Private Detective, but not everything is as it seems. With multiple bodies and as many suspects, this hard-hitting yet honest Gumshoe will have to watching in all directions if he hopes to survive. This is the second in the Archer series and it drops the reader back into the dark 1950s and what feels like a Mickey Spillane story with fast cars, faster women, and gunfire galore. A great treat.

First of all, a confession - this is the first book I've read by David Baldacci. Therefore, it might be a little presumptuous of me to say that I have the feeling he had a ball writing A Gambling Man. It's a novel that exudes the atmosphere of post-war America and is a compelling portrait of a man and a country coming to terms with a new way of life. As I haven't yet read the first Aloysius Archer book, One Good Deed, I can confirm that A Gambling Man can easily be enjoyed as a standalone, particularly as Archer is headed for Bay Town to start a new job as a Private Investigator. On the way he stops off in Reno where he meets wannabe starlet, Liberty Callahan. The wise-cracking, sizzling chemistry between Archer and Liberty is one of the highlights of the book, perfectly evoking the spirit of period icons, Bogart and Bacall. Archer's moral code isn't pious by any stretch of the imagination but it is resolute even when, as here, it earns him potentially dangerous enemies. It's not surprising that he intervenes when he comes across a recent acquaintance in trouble and as a result winds up the owner of a Delahaye 165 Cabriolet.. It's not a car I was familiar with but to call it stunning is an understatement - although it's hardly a vehicle suited to undercover work!. Liberty agrees to accompany him to California and after an eventful journey to Bay Town which allows Archer and the readers a clearer insight into the sort of woman she is, he is soon thrown into the deep-end when his new mentor, Willie Dash takes on a case which embroils them in the very heart of the town's political and social elite. It's not surprising that the great and the good are mired in corruption but a brutal murder presents Nash and Archer with a locked-room mystery to solve. It's here that the comparison with Agatha Christie becomes more clear, though of course if her books symbolise country house Englishness, A Gambling Man epitomises late Forties Americana. Although there's an ever-present sense of danger throughout the novel, as the body count rises so does the tension as the immersive scene-setting of the earlier chapters eventually leads to an exciting, nerve-wracking confrontation. A Gambling Man is historical crime as its most authentic and almost feels like a book written in the period in which it's set, although Archer is perhaps more enlightened than many men of the era. He is a wonderfully engaging protagonist who embodies the uncertainty of a generation still recovering from the horrors of war and yet ready to look to the future. However, as he discovers here, the country may be on the cusp of change but there are still laws and moral prejudices which almost invite exploitation and blackmail; this is certainly no rosy-hued pastiche of the age. The women might be prized for their bodies but many prove they aren't mere decoration and shouldn't be underestimated. Liberty is sure to be a favourite with readers but she isn't the only strong woman who makes her presence felt here. A Gambling Man isn't a particularly fast-paced thriller and though there is always a menacing suggestion of violence, much of it is off the page. Likewise, Archer is clearly a man who can handle himself in a fight and isn't averse to playing dirty if necessary but his intuitive disposition and quick wit are often more useful. He obviously still has much to learn about his new role and having already made an impression which could leave him a marked man in Bay Town, I'm intrigued to discover whether trouble finds him or he finds trouble in the next book. I can't wait to read it!

Excellent. It was a bit lengthy but worth it.

Okay, here's the short version: 5 stars, great read, enjoyable characters, and a wonderful trip back to just post WWII with a protagonist who is well drawn and delightful. Read it-- you'll be glad you did. The slightly longer version: Ex-Army Aloysius Archer has served a stint in prison for a crime he didn't commit (really, there are some innocent men sent to the slammer!) and is heading to California to pursue an opportunity to learn the ropes from a seasoned PI in hopes of becoming one himself. More often than not, he just goes by Archer, rather than his rather memorable first name. As he travels west, he encounters some interesting folks in Reno, where, as luck would have it, Archer actually wins a pretty nice wad of cash. One of those folks is Liberty Callahan, a woman who yearns for stardom and actually has the goods, if she can only make it to Hollywood. What a fortunate coincidence that Archer's destination is just a bit north thereof! They end up making the trip in a rare and beautiful Delahaye, a right-hand drive car that was a classic even then, and develop a strong, albeit complicated, bond with one another. Archer is keen to become a PI and meets up with his soon to be mentor, a fellow called Willie Dash-- a character who has seen better days, but isn't quite ready to be put out to pasture just yet. What unfolds thereafter constitutes the bulk of the plot, which will carry the reader swiftly and satisfyingly toward the conclusion. If I were to nitpick, there's some rather two dimensional characters, especially some of the bad guys, but hey, who cares? Archer is, perhaps, somewhat two dimensional at times as well, and it's a wonder he and everyone around him isn't an alcoholic for all the times Baldacci has him pulling a flask from his pocket to either share or fortify himself. I wish I had a dollar for every scene in which someone took a swig! At any rate, the plot is a good one, complex enough to keep things interesting, and there's plenty of action and intrigue along the way. I didn't know exactly what to expect from this book, other than the author is well known and successful. Sometimes a book just clicks for you, and this one did so for me. I hope others will share my opinion and spend some enjoyable time with Aloysius, er... just call him, Archer.

This is the 2nd installment about Aloysius Archer, a former WWII vet and ex-Angola prisoner who is on his way to Bay Town, California, to try his hand as a gumshoe. At a stopover in Reno he meets a casino owner who gives him $50 to try his hand at gambling — because “there’s no game where the House doesn’t have the advantage.” He will always make money. With delightful language, Baldacci gives the reader a colorful picture of post-war 1950s — from Lucky Strikes, two-toned lace-up shoes and hat checks, to a classic red Delahaye (I had to look that up on Google). The car and a gal named Liberty (and her nickel-plated Smith & Wesson .38) on the way to California. “Any trip is worth taking if standing still isn’t an option.” Of course, who knew it would lead to murder, drugs, corruption, political shenanigans, and assorted misdeeds (and plenty of dead bodies). A swell read.

Set at the start of the 1950s, A GAMBLING MAN continues the adventures of Aloysius Archer, who we met last year in ONE GOOD DEED. He simply goes by “Archer,” and even though he is a mild-mannered and likable young man, he has a penchant for finding trouble wherever he goes. At the beginning of this latest novel, Archer is headed to California, where he will be working for Willie Dash, a private detective. In my review of ONE GOOD DEED, I mentioned that David Baldacci’s homage to classic crime noir made me think of Ross Macdonald and his iconic character, PI Lew Archer. This Archer is now on his way to becoming a gumshoe, which is the height of irony. His bus takes an overnight stop in Reno, which is where he will find trouble. Archer is approached by an elderly man calling himself Bobby H, who makes him an offer to work as his bodyguard for the evening. He respectfully turns him down and makes his way to his tiny hotel room. Being a night owl and having trouble sleeping ever since the war, Archer can’t stay in for the night and decides to take a walk around Reno and see the local sights. He lands at the Dancing Birds Café and luckily finds himself sitting at the same table as the owner. Mr. Shyner makes sure that Archer watches his best showgirl, Liberty Callahan, and insists that he stop by the casino. It is at the casino where Archer meets up with Liberty, and the two have some luck at the craps table and roulette wheel. When Archer decides to share his hefty winnings with Liberty, he now has a friend for life and perhaps something more. They head out to another place where they find someone being worked over by a team of goons. Archer gets involved and ends up saving Bobby H, who confesses that he has large gambling debts. They work out a deal where Archer will give Bobby H his winnings in exchange for his beautiful French car. Archer can now skip the bus and travel to California with his new companion, who wants to make it in the movies. While taking a rest break the next day, they are accosted by the same individuals who killed Bobby H. Thankfully, they shoot their way out of this jam and try to keep a low profile the rest of the way. They arrive in Bay Town, California, the next day. Archer heads to Dash’s office, while Liberty gets hired at the only showplace in town and is a big hit. Archer can learn a lot from Dash, a former FBI agent who once worked with Eliot Ness. Of course, it takes just one day for Archer to find himself in the middle of a juicy assignment that turns into a deadly game. It seems that the town is run by a wealthy man, Sawyer Armstrong, whose son-in-law, Douglas Kemper, happens to be running for town mayor. Kemper and his associate, Wilson Sheen, come to Dash for help with a blackmailer whose identity they claim not to know. It may be Ruby, the young dancer at the same club where Liberty now works, or his opponent in the mayoral race. Even Kemper’s wife, Beth, is not above suspicion as she has been aware of his dalliances. After Dash goes to sleep following a day’s work, Archer hits the town and ends up pursuing the case on his own. This will include getting roughed up by some of Armstrong’s men, who are not happy about his daughter being questioned by PIs. He even has a 3am rendezvous with Beth at the only all-night diner in town and learns more about where the famous Armstrong and Kemper wealth came from. The body count starts and will continue to rise in an unexpected and chilling manner. Archer and Dash are great together, but they may be in way over their heads when they begin scratching at a plot that will put Bay Town on the map for unfortunate reasons. A GAMBLING MAN is delicious crime noir with fascinating historical data thrown in to keep the story interesting. I absolutely loved the opportunity to step back in time to this era with David Baldacci as my guide. Archer is one of today’s standout fictional characters, and you are missing out if you don’t jump into this terrific series at the beginning. The dialogue is priceless: “We’re all young, Archer, right up to the minute we’re just a picture on the wall for someone to remember.” Wonderful quips such as this are practically on every page, and I cannot wait to dive into the next Archer adventure. Reviewed by Ray Palen

I really like this. It was a old time detective novel of the post WWII era. The characters were really good and the story was great, A good read.

It seems like a good series. I think I am going to run with it. I have several more series running at present so I will bounce a bit.

My heart has been melted by this book!!!! It has everything “House In the Ceralun Sea” does and it’s all in Arthur’s perspective, whose thoughts were originally not revealed. Throughout this whimsical sweet story there is a look into his past, a deeper dive into his relationship with Linus and also the continuation of a fight to show the simple minded people of this universe that magic is not something to be feared!! But most importantly we get to witness Arthur learn and change. He has always been the one to give love and apologize for other people's wrongdoings without thinking anything of it. Until his family shows him how to receive love in return and tell him that he shouldn’t always be the one apologizing, he’s already done enough 🥲. This story is so freakinggg sweet!! All of TJ Klunes gorgeous writing really comes to life, capturing all the characters thoughts and feelings. I wouldn’t change anything about this book!!

As one of TJs beta readers, I was very lucky to read this very early in its iteration. I've now read the final version and it is perfection.

This healed a piece of my broken heart from the election. 🥹🫶🏼

Somewhere Beyond the Sea was even better that I thought it was going to be. [pre-read]: i need September 2024 to get here sooner

LOVE! LOVE! LOVE! My favorite part - the dedication! "For the trans community the world over: I see you, I hear you, I love you. This story is for you."

I wasn’t sure what to think about a sequel to The House in the Cerulean Sea because I thought that book was perfect and what more could be needed? I mean of course I wanted more of Arthur, Linus and all of the children, but I didn’t feel like I needed more. After reading that sequel I realize I was wrong, I did need this book and now I think I may even need more. If you read this book please also read the acknowledgements. I will admit I don’t always, but I have never agreed more with the sentiment than I did with this one. And let me say, if you’re not there yet you’re well on your way to securing that legacy and I appreciate you for it Mr. Klune. I’m not going to even try to summarize this one. It was a heartwarming book that while set in a fantasy world calls attention to real world injustices and causes the reader to think. And the author cheats a little, how can anyone despise a child and in this book you either have to side with acceptance and rights for all or the government which tries to control and abuse children. And the children featured in this book make that more than impossible.

I was BEYOND excited to get my hands on this book. After absolutely adoring the first book, I couldn’t contain myself when this incredible sequel was released! Quick summary: Sequel to The House in the Cerulean Sea (aka one of my most-loved fantasy novels of all time). A magical house. A secret past. Arthur Parnassus lives a good life built on the ashes of a bad one. He's the master/father of an orphanage of magical, and somewhat dangerous, children. Arthur loves with his whole heart so none of the children ever feel the neglect and pain that he once felt as an orphan on that very same island so long ago. And he is not alone; joining him is the love of his life, Linus Baker, a former caseworker in the Department In Charge of Magical Youth. Along with the island's sprite, Zoe Chapelwhite, and her girlfriend, Mayor Helen Webb. Together, they will do anything to protect the children. But when Arthur is summoned to make a public statement about his dark past, he finds himself having to fight for the future of his family. Arthur knows they're at a breaking point: their family will either grow stronger than ever or fall apart. Welcome back to Marsyas Island. This is Arthur's story of resistance and fighting for the life you want, and deserve to live. “When we live in fear, it controls us. Every decision we make is smothered by it. I refuse to live like that any longer.” There is something so magical (literally) about these books. The language used, and the characters formed, are just so beautiful you can’t help but fall in LOVE with both the story and the characters. T J Klune has a very special gift and I thank him for sharing it with us 🥰 I think one of the things I love about this book is that everyone loves and cherishes each other so much. Each and every one of them are so different and unique, yet they all seem to belong together. “But perhaps that’s the point: the trials and tribulations of life way heavily upon us, but we find people to help lighten the load.” This story is absolutely brimming with love and magic ✨ There is SO much to treasure in this story. Not only is the characterisation astonishing, but the storyline is packed full of sentimental and hilarious moments. You can’t help but be swept away and thoroughly entertained by this book. This sequel delivered everything I had hoped for, and more. I truly hope there is more to come from this series because it is utterly heartwarming and uplifting 🥰 4.5 🌟 (rounded up) 🌟🌟🌟🌟💫

Absolutely forgot to update my progress on this book, so the date of completion is wrong. I finished it a while ago. This is the sort of book I love to find--a true rarity. I think if books like these (the first in the series and this one) had been required reading canonized for high school classes, America would have a much brighter future right now.

I loved The House on the Cerulean Sea, and I'm always cautious picking up sequels, but the fear was misplaced. I enjoyed this one equally as much as the first. While this book picks up pretty much soon after the end of Cerulean Sea, we get the back story of Authur here. We get to see why he runs the orphanage for magical children and these six children in particular. It was awesome to get back with these characters, especially Lucy and Talia. There's a lot of fun here along with the cosy vibes we now expect from Klune. While I think there's an argument that this could be shorter and the pacing is a little up and down, I wasn't mad about it. I could happily spend more time with this cast. And I also get the argument that it feels like you're getting hit around the head with kindness and accepting everyone as you find them mantras, however I do think it's appropriate for the age audience it's written for. Five stars.

😭😭 A MILLION STARS ⭐️⭐️ “Hope is the things with feathers” 🪶🥹 I take no criticism for this series!! Standing on business for this series permanently✊🥹🫶 PS: 🏳️‍🌈🏳️‍🌈💙💙🫶🫶

A worthy sequel by T.J. Klune and I am one happy reader! Not that I expected less. Two extraordinary gentlemen are raising a house full of magical youth on one delightful magical island. Here this family of lovable misfits has a fight on their hands with a certain government agency that wants to tear their little world asunder. We won't hear of it. A fight they will get. The whole group is back plus a bonus. Each character has grown from the previous book and I love them even more. Don't fret, Lucy is still Lucy and still retains his appreciation for music just like any other 7 year old child of Satan. Yet, he loves deeply... Talia the garden gnome still gardens and sports a beautiful beard, the envy of many. Theodore the wyvern still has his horde and is adding to it daily. Shiny buttons, a favorite. Phee a Forrest sprite, well she starts to come into her own as do the rest of the lovables. All this under the devotion, love, care, and guidance of Arthur and Linus who are well deserving of their own little slice of happiness. Wedding bells perhaps? We learn some of Arthur's back story and what lead his life to the now. Zoe an undocumented magical, living life freely with her partner, Helen. Both play a bigger part in the sequel. Zoe as it turns out is much more than meets the readers eye. I will end here since I've out used the word magical and the word love in its various forms and it's starting to make me feel uncomfortable. I will say however, More please. I'm not ready to let these characters go just yet.

“It’s hard.” “What is?” “Being alive.” “It is,” Arthur agreed. “But perhaps that’s the point: the trials and tribulations of life weigh heavily upon us, but we find people to help lighten the load.”

I had to take a couple days before writing my review because I was without words after reading Somewhere Beyond the Sea. House in the Cerulean Sea was my favorite read of 2020 and is probably my favorite book I've ever read. However, I think that Somewhere Beyond the Sea may have taken the spot. It's been a very long time since I read a book that made me feel every single emotion. There were moments I would be crying and then laughing and then fuming with anger. TJ Klune has this magic ability to take his readers on a journey that requires them to walk miles in the shoes of his characters. At the beginning, Klune dedicated this book to the trans community. He wants to be the anti-JK Rowling, and I fully believe that he is there. Not everyone will agree with me, but this is my opinion, which is valid. Klune projects so much love for the queer community and writes for the purpose of spreading kindness and helping those that believe they are alone feel like they aren't alone; that there are people out their in the world that feel like them. In a TJ Klune book, no one is ever alone. We currently live in a world that wants to forget about people in the queer community, especially people in the trans community, which is vile and unnecessarily cruel. Most of these people use religion as a tool to try and eradicate these communities. They state their religion gives them the right to judge and destroy people's lives all because their "lifestyle" goes against the beliefs of said religion. They spend their days spewing hate and vitriol without caring to think about what their words and actions are doing to those they hate. That is not a religion I would ever want to be a part of, nor a community that I would ever want to exist in. This is what is at the center of Somewhere Beyond the Sea. You have magical children and adults that are being persecuted for simply existing. The government is ruled by people who believe that these children and adults should be eradicated for being different. They don't bother to get to know the magical people, and it's almost impossible to convince them that their views are wrong. Yes, you have characters like Lucy and Talia who make comments about murder and mayhem, but deep down, all they want is to be loved just like anyone else. They are looking for a place to exist without fear of being harmed because of who they are. No one should have to feel fear for simply existing. All the children--Lucy, Talia, Chauncey, Sal, Phee, David, and Theodore--should be able to live their lives just like any child, and that is something that their dad and papa--Arthur and Linus--will continue to fight for every day, which is something that every parent should strive to do for their child, whether that child be gay, lesbian, bi, trans, non-binary, ace, or whatever. Everyone deserves to feel this kind of unconditional love, especially from a parent. TJ Klune is by far my favorite author, and I have loved every single book of his that I've read. I feel seen and heard and loved when I read his books. I can relate so well to the messages he creates in his stories. I highly recommend that you read this book! If you haven't read House in the Cerulean Sea, make sure you do that first. This book, like the first one, is pure magic and joy!

Pre-Mini Review I had the incredible opportunity to receive the first four chapters of this book, courtesy of MacMillan, and I'm beyond thrilled to confirm that it is an absolute MASTERPIECE. However, I’m now left hanging until September, and the wait is excruciating! 😭 From just these few chapters, Arthur, Linus, and especially the children have already made me laugh, cry, and fall in love with their captivating stories. The characters are so vividly drawn and emotionally compelling that I’m desperate for more. The wit, charm, and heart in these pages are unmatched. I need more, and I need it now. How am I supposed to cope until the full release? 😭😱

4.5 stars I picked up SOMEWHERE BEYOND THE SEA towards the end of January when I desperately needed a distract from real life type read. Thankfully, I chose wisely and enjoyed revisiting these characters. That was enough for me to overlook a slow moving plot. The stakes are high as this found family is in danger once again. I’ll admit, there’s lots of filler scenes in this book. Cutesy lines or actions by the kids. Moments that made me smile, laugh or gave a good tug on the heartstrings. The plot itself is weakly developed and it feels like not much of note is happening for long stretches. It didn’t much matter to me in the end though as I just soaked up the characters interactions with each other. This book is the sequel to THE HOUSE IN THE CERULEAN SEA and I highly recommend reading the books in order to fully appreciate the characters.

Book Lovers does a lot of things right with subverting Hallmark movies with a cold girlboss protagonist who, instead of changing her ways or mentality, is still appreciated for who she is and what she values, especially by the love interest. I like that being career-oriented, valuing independence, living in the city, and being childless are qualities that aren’t villainized nor expected to change in order to have a happy ending. The banter is fun, and I can see how the MC and love interest pair really well together. What gave the book more depth, though, was its focus on the MC’s own issues and relationship with her sister. This helped round the story to be both a combination of romance and interpersonal/family struggles. Perhaps I just have low standards when it comes to 3rd act conflicts in romance books, but I was impressed with how the author tackled this one. Rather than relying on misunderstandings, the conflicts presented felt more realistic and honest. I was even more surprised that there were not one, but multiple realistic conflicts that made it difficult for the MC to have her happy ending - and I appreciated that, because that's how life actually works. “There’s no happy ending for a woman who wants it all.” Sometimes it gets little info-dumpy for the sake of characterization and relationship building, and one could argue that the love interest isn’t fully developed, but I’m OK with letting these things slide. Book Lovers has much more positive things going on than negative, so I’m totally fine with rounding it up to 5 stars.

i’m already convinced Emily henry personally writes to me in her books and this book just proved it. this book is made for book lovers by a book lover. and it is especially made for the older sister who has a younger sister. i fucking love these characters with all my heart. idk i just feel like Emily can create some of the best characters that eventually become my comfort characters. Nora is complex, deep, funny, and relatable. She’s like blood dripping from fangs as Emily describes it. Charlie says all the right things. i love the way Charlie can read Nora like a book (pun intended) i love the way Emily henry describes the men in her books. Their chemistry was tangible. Their emotions were deep. They are beautifully flawed puzzles pieces that fit together. i admire them so much. if there’s anything emily henry can put her whole ass and tits into, it’s creating the best characters. the ending had me squealing and running laps around the neighborhood. it was so cute and wholesome. Emily henry’s writing is so unique to me and refreshing. she’s always been one of my comfort authors. i feel like she’s THAT white woman who is MY white woman. she writes for poc first, i’m convinced. she deserves to get her ass ate for birthing this masterpiece that’s all. also i think i love this just as much as Beach Read. like i can’t choose one over the other. i hold them both dear to my heart.

I’m speechless! I’m absolutely head over heels for this book! This is the best romance story I’ve read recently and the smartest enemies-to-lovers trope I’ve ever devoured! This is undoubtedly the author’s best work and likely my top pick for the best romance read of 2022. It’s earned my full vote for the Goodreads Choice Awards in the romance category! I think Nora (named after Ms. Ephron, who gave us the best taste of romcoms) and Charlie are the best main characters the author has ever created! I don’t have enough words in my vocabulary to describe how I feel about this book! But if I could give it a billion stars, I would do so without hesitation! This time, I’m not giving anything away because I’m still trying to recover from the emotional intensity of this incredible experience. So you have to read it and find out for yourself! I’ll stop my rambling now! Just read it, and buy it for all your loved ones! This is a unique literary feast that you shouldn’t miss—a pure definition of perfection! Special thanks to NetGalley and Berkley Publishing for sharing the ARC of the best romance of 2022 with me in exchange for my honest thoughts.

i wish i was capable of a teaspoon of the banter, humour, and snark that comes out of charlie and noras mouths. they are seriously a match made in heaven. but OTPs are nothing new for EH. she has a real gift when it comes to creating a connection and understanding between two people. i loved her YA books, but writing adult romance is her true calling in life. what i adored most about this particular book is how it doesnt take itself seriously. there is some serious themes and content, but the overall vibe is very ‘lets poke fun at hallmark movies,’ which i enjoyed. the big city girl in a small town trope always works for me, so it was fun to have her fall for a big city boy as they are both stuck in the small town together. both charlie and nora work in publishing, so i think the story might feel too meta at times for some readers, but i personally didnt mind it. i think this is a fantastic addition to EHs bibliography. if you enjoyed her other books, you will definitely want to add this to your TBR, as its very much the same charm and wittiness and romance she has made herself known for. a massive thanks to berkley for the ARC!! ↠ 5 stars

*REREAD* YALL‼️‼️‼️ this is not a drill!!!! EMILY HENRY HAS OUTDONE HERSELF…. I know, I didn’t think it was possible either but here we are. This book had the most amazing small town vibe w such funny moments and yet so much depth too??? unreal. Nora was everything, I think everyone will see so much of themselves in her! & Charlie? obsessed. Their banter and conversations were my favorite thing, and the relationships & friendships within this book were amazing. I’m in love with everything about this, but are we even surprised?

I'm usually not big on romance... Quite frankly I'm often hoping the main female character will realize that the douche-canoe she's dating needs to be dumped but... this one was cute! I also really appreciated the positive representation of a childfree woman. Enemy to lover done right, would recommend! *It made it to my best books of 2022: https://youtu.be/WmTndjsYFIc

emily henry's writing is a gift to the entire virgo supercluster send tweet

Hands down the best banter I’ve ever read. Charlie Lastra I’d take a bullet for you. So excited to be on the Emily Henry train sorry I was late my dog ate my homework.

5 Huge Stars "I'm not ashamed of my upbringing, but the more you tell a person about yourself, the more power you hand over." I've been trying to write a review for this book that was about the actual book and not just a bunch of TMI about me, but...the struggle is real. For that reason, I will probably be keeping this short so as not to overwhelm ya'll with a bunch of personal information no ones cares about. As all we crazy power readers know, sometimes it's timing...sometimes it's your mood...sometimes it's that you feel as if the characters were made from you and that you just get them. This book was all three for me. And I just loved everything about it. The pop culture references...the witty banter...the tongue in cheek meta-talk about romance novels and their cliched characters...the writing itself. All of it. Loved it. Every second. I mean, just look at this: "This place looks like a Cracker Barrel had a baby with a honky-tonk, and now that baby is a teenager who doesn't shower enough and chews on his sweatshirt sleeves." ^I wish I had written that. What did I love most though? Nora. I ADORED her. Because I basically AM her. In so many ways. And, crazy as it sounds, being with her in these pages made me feel like I was hanging out with a friend who accepted me for exactly who I am. Here are some of my favorite quotes: "...barking heartless advice from the seat of her Peloton bike. You can tell she's evil because her hair is an unnatural blond, slicked back a la Sharon Stone in Basic Instinct, and also, she hates Christmas decorations." "That's the thing about women. There's no good way to be. Wear your emotions on your sleeve and you're hysterical. Keep them tucked away where your boyfriend doesn't have to tend to them and you're a heartless bitch." "I'm a career woman with a weekly housekeeping service, a spare bedroom I turned into a shoe closet, and a Sephora credit card. I don't imagine my dream man is a lobster hunter." "Mom's theory was that youthful skin would make a woman more money...good underwear would make her more confident...and good books would make her happy." "'And what, just because I don't want kids, I would supposedly punish a pregnant woman for making a different decision than me? My favorite person's a pregnant woman! And I'm obsessed with my nieces. Not every decision a woman makes is some grand indictment on other women's lives.'" "I hate when I have to think about what my face is doing, especially because I'm never convinced it's translating." "'I hated being a kid...I'd have no idea how to get someone else through it, and I definitely wouldn't enjoy it. I like them, but I don't want to be responsible for any.'" As a blond woman who is obsessed with books, skincare, Peloton, and my spare room closet...and who also works in a super male-dominated field with resting bitch face and zero desire for children...yes. Yes, I loved Nora. I also loved Charlie and just Nora and Charlie together. Their banter was absolutely delicious and the way they just understood each other...the things romance dreams are made of, folks. Anyway, I'll stop this gush fest here as I've pretty much slobbered all over the computer screen. There is more, but again, TMI. Plus, the Peloton is calling my name.

It will surprise absolutely no one when I say that I adored this book. It made me simultaneously miss the heck out of New York but also want to call up my sister, get on a plane to Small Town, USA™ and just lose myself for a weekend with nothing but my kindle and an empty stomach. Emily Henry just has such a knack for writing books that feel like they were written specifically *for me* and I truly have yet to be disappointed. While I don’t know that this is my favorite of her novels (I love them all so much that it’s honestly kind of pointless to try to play favorites aside from writing this review lol), I am confident that the ending of this book is not only my favorite of her endings, but possibly one of my favorites book endings of all time? I read the last 50 pages twice and cried just as hard at the ending both times. I couldn't have dreamed up a better conclusion if I tried. Oh, also, Charlie is an absolute dream boat and I love love loved both him and Nora SO. FUCKING. MUCH. Emily Henry just has *such* a gift and I am so excited to spend the rest of my life reading her stories. Happy, happy sigh CW: death of a parent, minor pregnancy complications

me @ book lovers: you're everything and i’m in love with you

For someone whose books feel more like a therapy session than a silly, fictional getaway, EH has put a lot of romance in this book. But who am I for complaining and realizing that the message is that some people are not more difficult to love, they just need more of it. Charlie Lastra, the man that you are. Nora Roberts, the badass woman that you are. (Libby, I don't like you but, as an only child, I'm not fully capable of understanding sister dynamics and why she did the right thing by not smashing a door on your face, you little ungrateful) Book Lovers is the third book in what we could call the “Emilyverse”, so you know the drill by now: broken characters whose trauma make you instantly see why they are so perfect for each other — and, this time, also why they could come up as rude, but there's a pretty tender heart under those walls; a flawless narration in the pain they have to face to be able to move on; the emptiness (but also joy) when the last page has arrived, everything worked out perfectly, and you've never felt so seen but lonely at the same time. Idk what Emily put in this story, or if there are so many people out there who play the villain in other people’s lives only because they don't let anyone too close, but this one is her best work so far — and by that I mean she crushed me in ways I didn't think it was even possible. ↠ 5 stars Easter eggs update: while in PWMOV Alex reads Gus's book, here that book is mentioned BUT we also discover that Charlie worked as the editor for January’s book!

“Maybe love shouldn’t be built on a foundation of compromises, but maybe it can’t exist without them either.” I didn’t expect to end this one in tears, but it got me. I was just broken down with how complex and beautifully detailed this story is. My favorite thing about this one is how I could spend hours dissecting each character. It was a story of love, not just a romantic one, but also the kind of love that comes with family. There was so much love everywhere and I just wanted to tap into it!! Emily Henry knows how to grab hold the attention and heart of "book lovers" everywhere and she did just that with this one. Nora is quite ordered in her life. She is the kind of girl to have checklists including when she’s dating. She makes sure to ask the right questions, even if that means knowing their credit report early on. Unfortunately, her dating life is still not really going well. Nora and Charlie first meet in person when she asks him to edit her client’s book. It wasn’t a great encounter as he wasn’t really the nicest person on the planet and wasn’t really a fan of the book. Fast forward years later, Nora and her sister go on a vacation to Sunshine falls with the intention of doing something fun and new and bonding more with each other. Unexpectedly, she bumps into Charlie and it turns out that he’s actually from the town. After many encounters, things start to escalate. While she is figuring out what exactly her relationship with Charlie is, her relationship with her sister might not be like she thinks because it’s possible that Libby is hiding things from her. “Just because not everyone gets you doesn’t mean you’re wrong.” Her characters are always so interesting! I love how Nora and Charlie have been both shaped by quite similar experiences but Henry does this in a subtle way. Nora has always felt like it's her job to take care of Libby and Charlie also felt like it's his job to take on the family business, and they both felt this way because of their childhood experiences. I love how we kept learning about them here and there. I rarely feel like book couples belong to each other because there is always something missing. But guys, Charlie and Nora BELONG to each other. They’re SOULMATES!!! I will defend this to the death. Although the attraction and sexual tension were certainly there early on, it didn’t feel insta lovey at all. It wasn’t quite a slow burn either. It was………perfect. Libby and Nora’s relationship definitely got my attention more than Nora and Charlie's. You could just see how much they love each other from the start to the ending of the book. They’ve had each other since their mother died, and Nora has taken the responsibility in ensuring that she’s okay for a long time. Libby might not necessarily want her to do that anymore, and Nora feels that she might be hiding stuff from her. The effects that their mother’s lifestyle had on them were really evident. Their relationship literally shattered me and brought me back together again. I really just want what they have. Very importantly, we can't ignore the fact that Emily Henry is a whole comedian. She has made me laugh for a long time and I’m happy to see that this book was just as funny. This is Henry’s love language okay. She makes sure her characters are hilarious, and that is how we readers are able to see which characters have the best chemistry. Henry, next book, please.

OH MY GOSH!!!! I'm completely speechless!!! I was so excited for Book Lovers by Emily Henry to be released. I loved every minute of this story!! I have read a couple of other books by Emily Henry, but this was by far my favorite book she has written!! Book Lovers has it's laugh-out-loud moments but I didn't expect it to make me cry, which it did. When I say you need to read this book, you need to literally run to it because it was just amazing!! This story was just so beautiful, all the characters had their own flaws, by no means neither of these characters were perfect which made it all the more enjoyable. I was hooked from the very first page, and couldn't put it down until I knew the ending. One summer. Two rivals. A plot twist they didn't see coming..... "Is there anything better than iced coffee and a bookstore on a sunny day?" The banter between Charlie and Nora was absolutely hilarious. The banter between Nora and Libby was also absolutely hilarious. Nora Stephens is a literary agent in New York. Nora's life is books- she's read them all. Nora is a heroine for her clients, for whom she lands enormous deals, and her beloved little sister, Libby. Nora and Libby lost their mother unexpectedly, their father walked away from the family when Libby wasn't even born yet. Nora stepped up and became the mom and dad for Libby. These two sisters used to be so close but something grew them apart. Nora and Libby just want to be close again, which is why Nora agrees to go to Sunshine Falls, North Carolina for the month of August when Libby begs her for a sister's trip away. Nora keeps bumping into Charlie Lastra, a bookish brooding editor from back in New York City. Libby makes a list for her and Nora to complete while they are away in Sunshine Falls. I WANT TO GO TO SUNSHINE FALLS AND EXPERIENCE THIS CUTE SMALL TOWN!!! 1. Wear a flannel shirt. 2. Bake something. 3. General makeover (let hair down/get bangs?). 4. Build something (literal, not figurative). 5. Go on at least two dates with locals. 6. Go skinny-dipping in a natural body of water. 7. Sleep under the stars. 8. Attend a town function (local wedding or festival of some kind). 9. Ride a horse. 10. Start a fire (controlled). 11. Hike??? (worth it). 12. Save a local business. Nora loves checklists as a literary agent, but something like this is totally out of her comfort zone. Nora and Charlie have met in the past when Nora was trying to get a deal for one of her clients. But as their vacation goes on Nora and Charlie start seeing each other frequently. The first time Nora saw Charlie in Sunshine Falls she thought he was stalking her because he had no reason to be there, until the life stories came pouring out. If Nora knows she’s not an ideal heroine, Charlie knows he’s nobody’s hero, but as they are thrown together again and again, in a series of coincidences no editor worth their salt would allow, what they discover might just unravel the carefully crafted stories they’ve written about themselves. Libby is five months pregnant with her third child when she and Nora take this trip. With visions of a small town transformation for Nora, who she’s convinced needs to become the heroine in her own story. But instead of picnics in meadows, or run-ins with a handsome country doctor or bulging-forearmed bartender, Nora kept running into Charlie Lastra. IF YOU ARE A BOOK LOVER, YOU ARE GOING TO LOVE BOOK LOVERS BY EMILY HENRY!!!!

This is my favourite Emily Henry book (so far). Nora and Charlie are everything to me

I’m going to take a day to process my thoughts a bit before coming back and editing because I just finished reading this in one go at 2 in the morning and all my brain can come up with is “Shit. This was delightful.” That and: “If I had to pick one person to be in my corner, it would be you. Every time.” 🥹

5 stars Sometimes, even when you start with the last page and you think you know everything, a book finds a way to surprise you. I've come to the conclusion that Emily Henry writes the perfect romances for me. With each book she writes I fall more and more in love with her writing and characters. When I started this book, I had no idea how I would feel about it by the end. The heroine isn't your typical romance heroine and I loved that about her. Nora and Charlie were both fantastic and they just worked together. Nora Stephens is a ruthless literary agent and she's the best at her job. Work is her life, and aside from her sister Libby and her nieces, it's all she focuses on. Libby is the one person she can't say no to and when she asks her to take a trip with her before her due date (Libby is pregnant with niece number 3) she goes. To a small town named 'Sunshine Falls'. Libby has all kinds of things planned for Nora. She wants her to have the small town experience but the most surprising thing about Sunshine Falls is who she runs into there. Charlie Lastra. An editor from NYC who she's worked with in the past. I wouldn't quite call Nora and Charlie enemies or nemeses, but they're closer to that than to being friends. Nevertheless, they get each other. "I think you're one of the least disappointing people I've ever met." I don't know what I loved more about this book... Nora and Charlie, Nora and Libby, or just watching Nora grow and seeing who she really is. Getting to truly know her was the best part of this book. I love getting to see the why's. Why someone is the way they are. Being inside Nora's head was fascinating and I could relate to her as an older sister. Charlie was such a fantastic hero. He worked so well with Nora and he understood her in a way very few do. I loved that he appreciated her for who she was and loved her enough to want what was best for her. He had his broody and standoffish moments, but when he opened up he was beautiful. I also loved the banter and spark between them. Emily Henry not only gives us an incredible romance with Book Lovers, she gives us a story of siblings, the love of books, and a small town romance with a twist. I recommend this to all my romance lovers and book lovers in general! Maybe love shouldn't be built on a foundation of compromises, but maybe it can't exist without them either. Not the kind that forces two people into shapes they don't fit in, but the kind that loosens their grips, always leaves room to grow. Compromises that say there will be a you-shaped space in my heart, and if your shape changes, I will adapt.

nailing this book to my door like martin luther

nora?? career woman Good books. book Charlie Book sisterhoodfamilysisterlove he Loves book also her Book i am crying why crying Book book Book Why happy so Happy Sisters Charliebook 5 strong and mildly distraught stars (this book is a handmade gift to virgos everywhere, and as our representative i thank emily henry on behalf of our people)

this book is pure perfection 💗 I have no words to describe how my heart feels so full and happy. Please read this book, you will not be disappointed.

Don’t care what the haters say, I’m a lover of this book!!! Nora Stephens is a successful literary agent with a reputation of an ice queen. One of her clients has recently sold a million copies of a book set in a small town called Sunshine Falls. Small towns are not exactly Nora’s scene, but when her sister Libby suggests a vacation in Sunshine Falls, she agrees. The last person Nora expects to meet there is Charlie Lastra, an obnoxious editor, who two years before turned down the famous Sunshine Falls book. They keep bumping into each other and it turns out that the first impressions are not always to be trusted… This was so good! I wouldn’t call it rivals/enemies to lovers though, colleagues to lovers is a better fit. Their first meeting was maybe a little unfortunate but when they met for the second time they hit it off from the get go. I loved so many things about this story! Like how Charlie trashed books? I wish he was real so I could friend him on GR and read his rant reviews. Or the way he called her Stephens? It was a million times sexier than cutesy endearments. (I bet Charlie would never call her “baby”!) Their chemistry was amazing and their banter may have been one of the best I’ve ever read. Charlie and Nora were such a perfect pair of bookish grumps! Now about the third act breakup; I wasn’t a fan but I have to admit that the problem was real. Nevertheless the solution was pretty simple and I found it instantly. Maybe I missed my calling and I should be a relationship counselor? I always have a solution for third act breakups before the characters do. Huh. Anyway, this book is getting five stars from me even despite the temporary heartbreak. Love the Book Lovers!! ❤️❤️❤️ —— Everyone and their mom knows Emily Henry so lemme check what the hype is about!

reread and my review from 2022 stays true - would get hit by a bus for emily henry

I. Am. OBSESSED. I’ve loved Emily Henry’s last books profoundly, and I wasn’t any less captivated by this one. This heroine is my favorite she’s ever written!!! I loved every second I spent in her head, and I’m so sad it’s over!!! Nora Stephens is the evil girlfriend in every Hallmark movie - she’s a true city girl, has a Peloton in her living room, wears heels like it’s her job, is an admitted workaholic of a literary agent and has no desire to meet a widowed, bearded lumberjack from a small town to help her find the true meaning of Christmas. I fucking LOVED her. Nora is bamboozeld by her younger sister into spending a month with her in the idyllic small town of Sunshine Falls, North Carolina, the setting of Nora’s oldest client’s most successful book. The plan is to have “the small town experience”, which includes wearing flannel, petting a horse and saving a small business, among other rom-com staples. It’s in the first day of her adventure that Nora finds out that Charlie Lastra, New York City’s most brooding editor and star of some of her murder fantasies, was, unbelievably, born and raised in Sunshine Falls, and is spending some time at home to help out his family. Emily Henry is obviously a fantastic writer. Her wittiness reaches absurd levels, and her translation of feelings into words deserves every award. But I think one of the most magical things about her books is that she manages to take stories that are relatively ordinary, nothing overly tragic, and still make them so emotional and profound. I mean, People We Meet on Vacation was about a girl trying to reconnect with her estranged best friend, and I felt like my heart was being squeezed by an iron fist the whole time I was reading it! I actually loved that this book wasn’t as melancholic as I find some of the others to be, but it still hit all the emotional notes and brought tears to my eyes. I absolutely loved this book. Charlie Lastra isn’t my numer one Emily Henry hero, but Nora Stephens is definitely my number one heroine! 🥺❤️

4.75 stars 📚 it’s becoming difficult to dislike an emily henry book. the way she forms her characters, their backstories, and the banter between the MCs creates the PERFECT novel. i found it soo difficult to put this book down for any length of time. first off, i love that we got introduced to the hero in the prologue. there’s nothing i hate more than waiting to meet the hero…let’s just get to it please Nora Stephens (h) nora is a literacy agent and what you’d call a “ice princess”. she comes across as a very cold person because she has trouble expressing her emotions and tends to work too much. she had a really difficult childhood. her dad abandoned her and her sister which left their mom to raise them by herself. nora feels like she needs to work hard, so she and her sister, libby, never have to be in a position where they’re struggling financially like they did when they were younger. she also has this crazy need to constantly help people, no matter the sacrifice Charlie Lastra (H) now onto my love, charlie 🥰 he’s a famous book editor that turns everything he touches into gold. my favorite description of him was by my girl, TJ. she actually referred to him as a “vampire” because he’s super broody and likes to be hidden away. the ice princess and the vampire 😌 nora’s first impression of him gives me actual life— His black clothes, dark features, and general demeanor have the approximate effect on the room of a black hole, sucking all the light out of it and swallowing it entirely. —he’s not only sucking all the light, but taking my heart with it 🥰 romance it’s weird because nora and charlie are soo alike yet nothing alike. although nora comes off as “cold” to others, with him it was like light and dark meeting. they had the same interests, but she was scared to open up to someone and be in relationship and he wasn’t nora and charlie meet in the prologue for work purposes. nora wants charlie to edit an up-and-coming release from one of her clients. charlie rejects her over to edit the book for one reason: the setting unknowing to nora, he hates the setting because it’s based in Sunshine Falls, the tiny town he grew up in. for the sake of spoilers, i’ll avoid giving detail on why he feels this way 2 whole years pass when libby, convinces nora to visit the little town that charlie hates so much for an entire month. AND SO IT BEGINS the amount of tension nora and charlie radiate all but reached through my phone and smacked me across the face. charlie wants to know why nora decided to come to Sunshine Falls. she simply responds “vacation”. and boyyy does he not like liars— He leans in again, his hand catching my chin, his thumb landing squarely on the divot at the corner of my lips. My breath catches. His voice is low and raspy: “Liar.” that was the moment where charlie transformed from a broody vampire to a spicy specimen of a man. the tension gets even spicier as the night goes on— His eyes are heavy on me, his pupils almost blotting out his irises, a lustrous ring of honey around a deep, dark pit. Heat gathers between my thighs, and I uncross and recross my legs. Charlie’s eyes drop to follow the motion, and his water glass hitches against his bottom lip… i’m in love with the way he loved to make her laugh. there’s nothing more attractive than a guy with a sense of humor, but it's even better when his goal is to make you happy— I lean across the table, grabbing the bottle and tipping it over his glass until it’s full to the brim. As deadpan as ever, he hunches and slurps from the glass without lifting it. I burst into laughter against my will, and he’s so visibly pleased it gives me a full-body twinge of pride. He wants to make me laugh. also— I smother a laugh with the back of my hand. His face twitches, and my heart flutters at the extraordinarily pleased look on his face. and the way he ALWAYS knew the right thing to say. emily henry wrote him as the most endearing and understanding hero ever and i'm LIVING “Until you got here,” he rasps, “all this place had ever been was a reminder of the ways I was a disappointment, and now you’re here, and—I don’t know. I feel like I’m okay. So if you’re the ‘wrong kind of woman,’ then I’m the wrong kind of man.” they have sex for the first time about 3/4 of the way through the book. once again, CHARLIE IS SO PERFECT. like when he asks nora if she’s on birth control and she responds “yes, but–” and he puTS ON A CONDOM BECAUSE IT’S WHAT SHE WANTS. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. for the past 2847389 books I’ve read, it’s always the MCs agreeing to raw dog it off the bat. this was so refreshing and on top of that, the way he didn’t even need her to explain herself 🥺🥺 charlie proceeds to say this— He thrusts deeper, harder. “Fuck, Charlie.” “Too hard?” he asks, slowing. I shake my head. He understands. No more caution or restraint. “I thought about you everywhere,” he says. “There’s nowhere in this town we haven’t done this.” 🩸 spoiler part of the review ❄️ • • • throughout the whole book, nora’s sister was VERY secretive. nora noticed things like her ignoring her husband, arguing on the phone with someone, and being given the number to a divorce attorney. in the end, we find out that libby planned this trip, not because her and her husband we divorcing or having problems…but that they were moving there! she only asked nora to go was to make her “fall in love with the place”. nora loves New York City and knows she’ll never leave it which is why Libby went to every length to make her fall in love with the town. in my opinion, libby was a fucking bitch, also extremely self-centered. nora has done EVERYTHING for her. she gave up her dream job of being a book editor and instead kept her job as an agent because it paid more. what does nora get? being criticized for answering a work call, lied to and being referred to as “cold” just because she cares about doing her job 🤡 at some point in the novel, nora finds out that charlie isn’t going back to New York and instead staying in Sunshine Falls to run his family's bookstore. nora tells charlie she’ll stay here for him, but he won’t let her hold on…cry break… okay, i’m good…sorta 😂😂 charlie understands the sacrifices nora has made for her sister’s happiness, so he won’t let her do it for him. he wants her to go back to New York so she can follow her dreams UGH— “Of course I love you, Nora. If I loved you any less, I’d be trying to convince you that you could be happy here. You have no idea how badly I wish I could be enough.” IM CRYING AGAIN! why does he have to be so perfect? why can't he just make her stay like all the other heroes so I don’t have to be put through this pain 😡 in the final chapter, it’s now December and nora is in New York, without charlie or libby. to celebrate her mom’s birthday, she visits their favorite bookstore. right before arriving, libby texts her— I’ll let you go, she says. But send a pic when the present gets there, okay? THE SECOND I READ THIS I KNEW WHAT WAS COMING OMFGGGG it’s like a scene from a movie 😭😭 she goes to grab a book at the same time he does and it’s like magic 💋💋💋 i must take this moment to once again praising Emily Henry. the whole scene of them reuniting was written so perfectly- But this, I realize, is what they mean, all those thousands of writers who’ve tried to describe the sensation of following the trail of your life for years, only to smack into something that changes it forever. The way the sensation jars through you, from the center out. How you feel it in your mouth and toes all at once, a dozen tiny explosions. […] My body has moved from winter into spring, all those scraggly little sprouts pushing up through a crush of snow. Spring, alive and awake in my bloodstream. charlie and nora…cora??? narlie??? narlie is giving surfer boy 🤙🏻🤙🏻 anyway, charlie and nora proceed to express their undying love for each other while i sob in my pajamas 🥰 original thoughts after finishing: reading this book while PMS-ing is not a good combination. tell me why i sobbed during the entire final 2 chapters??? i cried during cute moments…CUTE I SAY edit 5/22/22: edited this review because everyone failed to tell me that i called Sunshine Falls Sunville Falls plus the grammar was so icky. i’m disappointed in my past self from a couple weeks ago ☹️

reread because i’m planning to (eventually) reread all of emily henry’s romances to decide on a final ranking ———————— emily henry is quickly becoming one of my favourite romance authors, and her newest release book lovers perfectly encapsulates everything that i love about her books. book lovers follows literary agent nora - a type A, city girl workaholic à la sandra bullock’s character in ‘the proposal’. knowing that she’s always chained to her desk, nora’s little sister libby convinces her to take a trip to a small town to complete a bucket list made up of popular tropes from small town romance novels. however, during her trip she finds herself repeatedly running into her book editor rival charlie lastra, a man she knows from back in the city and doesn’t particularly like. but despite her quest to become a romance novel heroine and avoid charlie, she can’t seem to stay away…. one of the most impressive aspects of henry’s books is her characterisation, and this book is no different. from the first few pages, you completely understand who nora is, allowing you to immediately slip into her life and the story. as i am quite the control freak myself, i also found nora to be one of the most relatable protagonists i’ve read about for a while, which just speaks to how well-crafted she was as a character. i would argue that this is emily henry’s most ‘rom com’ book to date, largely because the chemistry and the snarky, dry banter between nora and charlie is the strongest yet. a book has to work hard to make me laugh, but this one succeeded. book lovers also contains the same heart and emotional depth that has become characteristic of henry’s novels. the sister relationship between nora and libby is the thread running throughout the book, with nora trying to learn how to relinquish some control after years of having to parent libby post their mother’s death. the title is also incredibly apt as it’s peppered with literary references and discussions of popular book tropes, so it really does feel like a love letter from one book lover to the next. if you loved beach read, you may love this one even more! [thank you so much Viking Books/Penguin UK for making my year and sending me an arc!] original review: oh the girls are going to be screaming when this one comes out

I did not expect this book to make me cry 😭 It was heading towards 4 stars, but that last 30% was so beautifully written that I had to give it 5. Any book that makes me cry is a damn good book. It’s a book about books, capturing the magic that makes us fall in love with them. It was a journey of the beautiful connection between flawed characters and emotional experiences that I related so deeply with. It’s all about finding the balance and compromises in life. I didn’t expect it to touch me so emotionally, and I was surprised at how much it moved me. It had all the ingredients of an incredible book, even the usual cliches, but with a twist. There’s a line that says, ‘Does anyone ever want to finish a good book?’ which is quite funny and ironic because you literally cannot not finish this book. Nora is cut-throat to the outside world, but deep down inside, she’s just someone who cares so deeply and wants to look after everyone she loves. She’s meticulous and has methodical approaches to everything in her life. She always wants to be 5 steps ahead of everyone else. And then there’s Charlie, her match in every way possible. “Or maybe, Nora Stephens, I can read you like a book.” I scoff. “Because you’re so socially intelligent.” “Because you’re like me.” Nora thinks she’s the wrong kind of woman, the villain of someone else’s love story. In the same way, Charlie is the wrong kind of man. They’re misunderstood by others but perfect for each other. Their banter, easygoing nature, and back and forth with each other made for such amazing chemistry. I love them so much 🥹 I loved how they both understood each other so well and connected so deeply. I couldn’t get enough of them, much like the feeling of not wanting to finish a truly good book. I say they’re flawed characters because at times I didn’t like them. Sometimes I thought they made poor decisions, and I especially was getting frustrated with Nora’s sister Libby. I did come to like their relationship and sisterly love for each other. And eventually it all made sense in the end after building up perfectly. The ending felt like all the pieces were coming together and I loved every bit of it. Nora loves reading the last page of a book before getting started, so I’ll include the last few sentences. They reflect the entire book so well. She wonders whether what comes next could ever live up to the expectations. She doesn’t know. You never can. She turns the page anyway.

whoever said they picture jake johnson as charlie deserves a kiss. this book was written for me and me only! i’m glad i went in knowing the back burner and that it was mostly about two sisters. i thought this story would be boring but i actually relate to nora so much? as an older sister i understand her so much. i even relate to how she feels like every guy she dated finds “the one” after dating her like WOAH? emily henry are you at my window right now??? really enjoyed this. not as much as people we meet on vacation but way more than beach read lol. a lot of people compare the town hall meetings to gilmore girls but personally i think they’re similar to the pawnee, parks and recs, town meetings

5 stars for The Five-Star Weekend! I can’t pick one thing I didn’t like about this book, it was truly perfection in my eyes. Told from many different point of views, that it gave such a well rounded storyline that was just everything. Love love love!!!

What can I say that hasn’t been said already about what an Elin Hilderbrand novel does to me, and for me? The Five-Star Weekend is her twenty-ninth novel, and every year Elin Hilderbrand proceeds to craft a book that is light, airy, fresh, easy to read, quick, full of wit and sharp humor, and just makes me so damn happy to read…..while at the same, being so layered and full of fully fleshed out characters with so many relatable issues in their lives. Her books get placed in a box and often written off as simply being a beach book; but they just do something to me every year when I read them, and for the last 5-6 years I’ve been lucky to enough to get them as ARCs, so my Februarys are always the time of year I look forward to most, when the typical reader has to wait til June for their summer to begin with Elin….my summer always starts early! And this year’s novel was no exception, what she has crafted in The Five-Star Weekend is a deeply intimate portrait of grief, resilience, and the bonds of female sisterhood; all sprinkled with fun, food, music, and ofcourse, some time at The Chicken Box ;) (If you haven’t been to Nantucket or read an Elin Hilderbrand book, I’m sorry that you don’t get that final reference 😅)

l really enjoy all Elin Hilderbrand's book, this is a stand alone. And of course it's very good. I do enjoy the series she writes the most because I enjoy the continuing stories of the families but this was just as good. it's a story about a woman who organizes a weekend party for her best friends though all the decades of her life and she invites one woman who she has only met on her website and of course this has a twist to it. But i love the story of the friendship and bond of these people.

Since I have been reading the authors books once a year for many years now it almost feels like I’m getting my own sort of Nantucket vacation through her summer reads. She does such an incredible job at creating a sense of place you truly feel like you’re right beside the characters and this was no exception. She has a knack for describing food in the most mouthwatering and appealing way and I swear if I ever actually visited Nantucket for real it would be mostly for the food. Her characters are always so well drawn too, even though her books are the ultimate beach reads there’s always some depth because of her great characterization. This book had some super messy and relatable women in this group of “friends” and then you also get cameos from characters in previous books which is such a treat. If you haven’t had the pleasure of reading one of the authors books to get you ready for summer this is a great place to start!

The Five-Star Weekend was a lovely story set, once again, on Nantucket and told only in a way Elin Hilderbrand can! Hollis Shaw is a famous food blogger, whose husband is suddenly killed in a one-car accident after a slight argument between them. Her whole world is torn to shreds, but 7 months later, she's determined to have a celebration of HER life with all the friends, "stars", from her various stages of life thus far. Enter the high school best friend. The college roommate. The mommy best friend. And the woman from her blog that has helped her piece her life back together following her husband's death. Will this friendship weekend get Five Stars despite the drama that will no doubt ensue amongst the five women...? Elin Hilderbrand brings back her signature Island-style writing and we're treated to a few cameos from several characters from previous novels (you won't need to have read any to enjoy this one). The story is written in a carefree, gossipy way that lures you in and doesn't let go until literally the very last page. The character growth in this book is HUGE. Each of the "stars" has personal drama that we follow and their development has you cheering for them the whole way. There's also enough conflict between the women to keep the story moving along and never, ever dull. Verdict: The Five-Star Weekend gets Five Stars from me!

Her books are CANDY - I could not devour this fast enough. Loved it.

Elin is the queeeeen! As always. Also my dip is in this book, so yeah. I'm officially soaring.

I know I have said this about the great MKA (Mary Kay Andrews), but it is not really summer for me until I read a novel by Elin Hilderbrand, and I always look forward to my first of the year. I foolishly waited until August this time, but of course, I still enjoyed The Five-Star Weekend just as much had I read it in June. This one didn't capture me quite as much as The Hotel Nantucket did, but it still had all the elements I know and love from Hilderbrand books, such as the setting of Nantucket, wonderful characters, drama, a Peloton, and tearjerker moments. And we can't forget about the collective POV, which never lets me down. I had never heard of a "Five-Star Weekend” before, and it made for a wonderful concept for this story. Hollis was a strong female lead, as were the other female characters, and oh the drama that ensues when Gigi's secrets start coming out. The audiobook is again narrated by the talented Erin Bennett, and there is just a certain something about her that makes me love Hilderbrand books even more. She was able to fully capture every single character's personality with her narration, and this is an audiobook that truly cannot be missed. Hilderbrand tackles tricky subjects with ease and grace, and she manages to make every single woman in this book feel real and perfectly relatable in some way. The Five-Star Weekend would make for a great beach read, but even if you aren't on a beach I would highly recommend having a drink in your hand for this one. I don't know why but every single Hilderbrand novel feels like magic to me, and I can hardly believe this is her 29th book. I am hoping for many more to come, and if you are a fan of her at all you should definitely enjoy it. Reading this felt like coming home, and I enjoyed every minute of it.

4.5 stars for this fantastic summer read! The setting was perfection, the details were swoon worthy, the foodie elements were mouthwatering & the relationships & characters hooked me right away. I loved all the twists & the narrative of female friendships. I need to read more Elin!

5 Summer Stars 👙🥂🐶🦀 loved everything about this the friendships, the food, the fun, the drama !

absolutely loved. I’m such an elin girlie. enjoy every single one of her books.

Tempted to give 5 stars but I am thinking I may settle at 4.5. Need to think for a bit before posting my full PUB DAY review on my bookstagram later today. REGARDLESS, I loved this one so much and Elin is forever a queen in my eyes. 🥹💙

no because with peace and love, miss ana huang really said “i heard you b*tches mumbling and cackling about my heroes being too similar, here’s xavier” and she ate y’all up 🤭 i’ve never met an AH hero i didn’t like (except alex for like 10 chapters in twisted love) but xavier is giving golden retriever, lackadaisical playboy, but obsessive and possessive billionaire. he’s the irresponsible heir to his billionaire father’s empire and fortune but has to be babysat by his uptight, “ice queen” publicist sloane. when his father’s health takes a turn for the worse, they’re forced together more than ever. there is just SOMETHING about the way xavier didn’t care about anything, work, his reputation, his family, his family business, etc. but took the time to notice her favorite foods on different occasions, the way she takes her coffee, the way she dresses. like give me a man who HAS BEEN down bad for years!!! and you guys know, i will defend an ice queen, grumpy girl who’s become a cold badass to protect herself until i die and sloane is no exception!!! she was so funny, witty, and layered. and these two just understood each other on a level like no other!!! rhys larsen is my man my MAN but… this might be favorite ana huang book 🫢

ੈ♡˳ rating: five outta five 💌 ੈ♡˳ thoughts: if ana huang has zero fans left, that means i am dead. i will always read her books, i will (almost) always enjoy them. this one is no different. i think what made this a 5 star book was the fact that it was actually different from many of her other books. they’re all billionaire romances, but this one felt different. xavier felt different. the backstory with his mother literally almost made me shed some tears. i felt like both the hero and the heroine were more complex than many of her others. one of my favorite things was waiting her incorporate all of her past heroes in this book, including the ones from the twisted series. welcome back christian harper. and whew the set up for vuk’s book was 10/10, i’m so excited for that. ੈ♡˳ tropes ꕥ “enemies” to lovers ꕥ billionaire romance ꕥ forced proximity ꕥ he falls first ꕥ grumpy x sunshine ੈ♡˳ fave quotes “ೃ⁀➷ “every version of my happily ever after will always include some version of you.” “ೃ⁀➷ “luna is short for mi luna. my moon. because no matter how dark the nights got, you were always there, shining so brightly that i always found my way through.” “ೃ⁀➷ “to every woman who’s ever been told to “smile more.” fuck that. do what you want.” “ೃ⁀➷ “whenever i was drowning, she was my anchor in the storm.” ◡̈ ◡̈ ◡̈

This one is probably after twisted lies, my FAVOURITE book by Ana Huang! ✧.*"Luna is short for mi luna. My moon. Because no matter how dark the nights got, you were always there, shining so brightly that I always found my way through."*.✧ 🌟4.5 stars 🌟 The pace was great from beginning to end, their chemistry was so on point, and the fact all the characters from the Twisted series and King of Sin series were sort of involved in the story made it 10 times better! Xavier's made his way to my top 10 book boyfriend list, so you know I'm not even JOKING about how much I enjoyed reading about them. I don't even know how to explain this, but Sloane's personality literally mirrored mine, how is that even possible, I felt like I was reading about myself at some point. ( except the fact she comes from high society blah blah OBVIOUSLY ) The spicy scenes were written AMAZING as always because she knows what she is writing unlike many others that I'm not going to mention lol ! Not me throwing shade👀, anywayyyy , if you haven't decided to continue this series or even start it, hopefully this review helps you decide! ︵‿︵‿︵‿︵︵‿︵‿︵‿︵︵‿︵‿︵‿︵︵‿︵‿︵‿︵ -audiobook 9/10 for the audiobook. The male narrator (Gregory Salinas) was perfect with all respect to female narrator, the narration felt emotionless just sometimes! ︵‿︵‿︵‿︵︵‿︵‿︵‿︵︵‿︵‿︵‿︵︵‿︵‿︵‿︵ -quotes : ̗̀➛"Whenever I was drowning, she was my anchor in the storm." ——————— : ̗̀➛"Love isn’t about perfection, Luna; it’s about imperfect people creating their own version of happily ever after. And while I don’t know everything, I do know this: Every version of my happily ever after will always include some version of you." ——————— : ̗̀➛"I would give anything for her to feel a fraction of the same way toward me." ︵‿︵‿︵‿︵︵‿︵‿︵‿︵︵‿︵‿︵‿︵︵‿︵‿︵‿︵ king of Sin series ratings: ★King of Wrath - 4 stars🌟 ★King of Pride - 3.5 stars🌟 ★King of greed - 2 stars🌟 ★King of sloth - 4.5 stars🌟 --------------------- pre-read I feel good about this one, honestly! Since the king of greed was barely a 2 stars, this one def gonna be better! ---------------- Ana posted an illustration of Sloane and Xavier on her IG a few days ago, for those that hasn't seen it yet!! illustration🤭 (also let me know if it doesn't work !)

alpha reading🫶🏽

"The greatest gift we have is time. Use it wisely." Xavier Castillo. Also known as Sloane Kensington's biggest problem. Sorry - client. The party boy that she has the pleasure of cleaning up after. But Sloane will never fall for him - not in this lifetime, not in any lifetime. At least that's what she believes. Until she came along, Xavier never wanted to chase. But it's getting harder and harder to deny. But he's just a client. Nothing more. Right? "Don't run away from what could be because you're afraid of what might be." Ana Huang is an absolute billionaire genius. With every book in this series I fall more and more in love with every character she writes. Also (side note) I LOVE ALL OF THE CAMEOS PLEASE KEEP THEM COMING!!! Thank you for blessing us with yet another billionaire romance that I will consistently think about. You have Xavier Castillo - our billionaire party boy and Sloane Kensington - his take no shit publicist. If this doesn't convince you to read this book I honestly don't know what will. The banter was perfection, the romance was rom-com level, and the spice… well let's just say I don't think you'll be disappointed… "Whenever I was drowning, she was my anchor in the storm." Xavier Castillo is a billionaire playboy. That's his image. But when you break him down, his backstory is actually really heartbreaking. No one actually believes in him. Not his father, not his family. The only person who actually believes in him is Sloane. And while I was reading I could literally see the sparkle in his eyes while he was looking at Sloane (I swear to you!!!) And Sloane!! She is an utter badass with comebacks for days!!! That's what made the banter so good!! And also her family were fucking assholes (excluding Pen). The way she built her own successful business - girl slay honestly. And in case I didn't say it before - Sloane is "Walk him like a dog" energy and Xavier will crawl on his knees with pride!!! That is iconic and I love it!! "I've been falling in love with you day by day for years, and I didn't even know it." This playlist is very much contemporary romance hits and I am not mad at it. Ana Huang makes iconic playlists but these are the songs that I added 😇😇 (Link - https://open.spotify.com/playlist/27C... ) 🎵 "Not Another Rockstar" - Maisie Peters 🎵 "Monaco" - Jude York 🎵 "HANDSOMER (Remix)" - Russ, Ktlyn 🎵 "Who's Afraid of Little Old Me?" - Taylor Swift 🎵 "telepatia" - Kali Uchis 🎵 "Harder To Breathe - Acoustic" - Maroon 5 🎵 "Still Falling For You" - Ellie Goulding 🎵 "Sway With Me" - Saweetie, GALXARA 🎵 "Movement" - Hozier 🎵 "Control" - Zoe Wees 🎵 "Figure You Out" - VOILA 🎵 "Older" - Sasha Alex Sloan 🎵 "Music For a Sushi Restaurant" - Harry Styles 🎵 "Apple" - Charlie XCX 🎵 "Please Please Please" - Sabrina Carpenter 🎵 "Bigger Person" - Lauren Spencer Smith 🎵 "All Hands on Deck" - Tinashe 🎵 "I Don' Want to Be" - Gavin DeGraw 🎵 "Northern Attitude" - Noah Kahan, Hozier 🎵 "Dynasty" - MIIA 🎵 "Growing Sideways" - Noah Kahan 🎵 "birthday cake" - Dylan Conrique 🎵 "Human" - Rag'n'Bone Man 🎵 "GOSSIP" - Maneskin, Tom Morello 🎵 "HEARTBEAT" - Isabel LaRosa 🎵 "Father" - Demi Lovato 🎵 "Praying" - Kesha 🎵 "Heaven" - Julia Michaels 🎵 "Little Black Dress" - One Direction 🎵 "Lavender Haze" - Taylor Swift 🎵 "Nervous" - The Neighbourhood 🎵 "Shivers" - Ed Sheeran 🎵 "How Deep Is Your Love" - Calvin Harris, Disciples 🎵 "Electric Love" - BORNS 🎵 "Take A Chance On Me" - ABBA 🎵 "To The Moon" - Meghan Trainor 🎵 "butterflies" - Isabel LaRosa 🎵 "yes, and?" - Ariana Grande 🎵 "Moon" - Austin Giorgio 🎵 "Dangerous Hands" - Austin Giorgio 🎵 "I'm Not A Saint" - Billy Raffoul 🎵 "FOR YOUR LOVE" - Maneskin 🎵 "Crowded Room" - Meghan Trainor 🎵 "GIRLS" - The Kid LAROI 🎵 "Moonlight Magic" - Ashnikko 🎵 "That's My Girl" - Russ 🎵 "Take Me to Church" - Hozier 🎵 "You Found Me" - The Fray 🎵 "I'll Be Good" - Jaymes Young 🎵 "Put Your Records On" - Ritt Momney 🎵 "I Think I'm In Love" - Kat Dahlia 🎵 "I Can Do It With a Broken Heart" - Taylor Swift 🎵 "Like Real People Do" - Hozier 🎵 "Best Thing I Got" - Sabrina Carpenter 🎵 "Lover Of Mine" - 5 Seconds of Summer 🎵 "Poison" - Rita Ora 🎵 "Fast Times" - Sabrina Carpenter 🎵 "Karma" - Taylor Swift, Ice Spice 🎵 "All I Need" - Within Temptation 🎵 "Fallin' (Adrenaline)" - Why Don't We 🎵 "Moth To A Flame" - Swedish House Mafia, The Weeknd 🎵 "Helium" - Sia 🎵 "dancing in the kitchen" - LANY 🎵 "Can't Help Falling In Love" - Christian Leave 🎵 "feel something" - Bea Miller 🎵 "Cry" - Kelly Clarkson 🎵 "Beautiful Things" - Benson Boone 🎵 "The Reason" - Hoobastank 🎵 "Nonsense" - Sabrina Carpenter 🎵 "Never Let Me Go" - Florence + The Machine 🎵 "Love You Like A Love Song" - Selena Gomez &The Scene 🎵 "Empire State Of Mind" - JAY-Z, Alicia Keys 🎵 "Save Your Tears (Remix)" - The Weeknd, Ariana Grande 🎵 "My My My!" - Troye Sivan And also… remember what I said about the spice 🌶️🌶️ "Not God, Luna. God has no hand in what I'm about to do to you." "Fuck, Luna, you look so good on your knees, choking on my cock." "Stop talking and sit. I want to see you ride my cock." "You're dripping already, Luna. We've barely gotten started." 🗽 Tropes 🗽 💙 Billionaire Romance 💙 Grumpy Girl x Sunshine Boy 💙 He Falls First 💙 Forced Proximity 💙 Publicist x Client Book Edit - https://www.instagram.com/p/C-DmB1Pob...

4.5/5⭐️ “I don’t want a kiss or a one night-stand. I WANT YOU.“ This is definitely my favorite book in this series💗 Sloane and Xavier were so refreshing and different compared to other Ana Huang book couples. They are complete opposites but they complement each other so well🥹 This is not only my favorite book in this series, it’s also in my top 3 favorite Ana Huang books. And omg I can’t wait for Vuk and Ayanas book. He is from serbia? I’ve never read a book where the main character is from my country🤭 so I’m VERY excited about this book.

" Xavier Castillo was also here, looking devastating in a black suit. He was currently lounging in a chair with a drink in hand and his other arm draped over the shoulders of a pretty brunette. No tie, jacket off, collar open, and gaze amused as Sloane stalked past him without sparing him a glance. He was woefully against dress code, but he was so charming no one called him out on it." ______________________________________ "Sloane was one of the most beautiful women I’d ever met. Blue eyes, long legs, symmetrical face…Michelangelo himself couldn’t have sculpted a better female form." "I knew all of these things because despite her assumption that I paid attention to no one except myself, I couldn’t stop noticing her if my life depended on it. Every detail, every moment, all filed and categorized in the Sloane cabinet of my mind." "I no longer suspected but knew that Sloane Kensington was it. Just like that." “She’s not just any woman. She’s…” Everything." "“I’ve been falling in love with you day by day for years, and I didn’t even know it,”" ________________________________________ "The dramatic slant of his cheekbones, the thick dark brows, the sculpted mouth that seemed infinitely more inviting when it wasn’t wearing a provocative smile…his face dared me to look away, and I couldn’t." "But he wasn’t a random man; he was him, and the house felt so much more vibrant when he was there that I’d thrown caution to the wind and invited him over for the weekend." "I hadn’t realized how accustomed I was to his annoying but familiar sunshine optimism until its warmth was gone." "He’d eschewed a tie, breaking dress code, but it worked on him. Everything worked on him. He was the epitome of effortless charm." "Xavier Castillo. Only you." _______________________________________ Xavier Castillo couldn't be imperfect even if God himself tried to make him so!!! My goodness, there's something about a man who gets up and builds himself from figuratively, well....nothing, just to spite his dead father, that gets me going. The charisma, the playboy looks with golden intentions.... Xavier may have been gifted the cliches but my boy was no ordinary man I tell you! Sloane was the epitome of prideful elegance, and if we didn't appreciate that enough, then Xavier sure did... I love how she stood her ground for what she felt was right and doesn't give a damn when everyone else labeled her as being petulant and stubborn. She was a headstrong FMC to the very end, and I stan her for it! The way they worked through differences wasn't in the usually rushed and cliche ways...and the way Xavier loved Sloane through her doubts and Sloane loved him throughout his " disappointments"... LORD, I want that! *pretty please with a cupcake and icing* Just picture me sitting here with a bird nest looking head and wild eyes waiting for King of Envy to drop

ೃ⁀➷ ⭑ ⭑ ⭑ ⭑ ⭑ went in with very little to no expectations and came out with quite possibly my new favorite book of the series, so far Ana has outdone herself🥂 Xavier and Sloane have been favorites, but together? They're contenders for my top couple spot ᡣ𐭩

Really just so wonderful. This series continues to keep me enthralled. I loved it. I am always eagerly awaiting the next book from Ana Huang. Her characters just come alive for me and I always devour them far too quickly. This billionaire playboy, Xavier, lives a life of luxury and sloth. Sloane is a powerful publicist charged with keeping his family image above reproach. He also likes to flirt with her and a bit too much. Sloane was definitely the grump to Xavier's sunshine but just the right amount. After Xavier's father died, he is left with the biggest challenge of his life. Sloane is there to help him and it causes them to grow a lot closer. Will they give into their chemistry and ruin any hope of being professional again? Of course they will! And it was sure fun to watch. Xavier was so endearing and he poked at Sloane just enough to get under her skin. When she finally opens up to him about her own screwed up family, it was really beautiful to see. I loved seeing her be vulnerable. Their romance unfolded so sweetly after that. There were also some great cameos in this one! All the way back to the Twisted series. And I am so excited for King of Ency and Striker. There were some great teases to those. 5 stars 3 on the spice

“I didn't want her. I needed her. Desperately. I needed her the way the ocean tides needed the moon, and I would give anything for her to feel a fraction of the same way toward me.” Do I have a new favorite Kings of Sin book?? Sloane and Xavier were everything to me. Their chemistry was absolutely scorching! Xavier’s development and growth were, in my opinion, very believable and well done. And listen, eat the rich and billionaires shouldn’t exist, but damnit does Ana know how to write them 😭 I especially loved the grumpy/sunshine dynamic in this with Sloane being the grumpy “ice queen” character. Personally, I find this trope much more entertaining when the woman is prickly. Sloane is truly a top favorite FMC for me now, I really liked her. See the below quote for a peek into how iconic she is lmao. “Certain things in life made sense. For example, the concept of cause and effect, the heat of the sun, and female praying mantises killing their partners after sex. No muss, no fuss-they got their pleasure, and they were done.” Sloane is so real for this tbh. ^^^ Lastly, Ana is always going to deliver with the smut. And this book is no different. 😮‍💨 *I received an arc from the publisher in exchange for my honest review*

“Luna is short for mi luna. My moon. Because no matter how dark the nights got, you were always there, shining so brightly that I always found my way through.” ৎ⋆｡‧📖‧ 6.0★ sloane & xavier playlistღ 𝗡𝗼𝘄 𝗽𝗹𝗮𝘆𝗶𝗻𝗴: "(like real people do - hozier)" 0:09 ━●────────── 3:18 ㅤ ㅤ◁ㅤ ❚❚ ㅤ▷ ⋆˙⟡ my thoughts MY BABIESSS. No because if dante and vivian didn't exist they would definitively be my fav couple from the series. I always thought I hated grumpy girl x sunshine boy but ana proves that it can be done correctly, SHE DID IT PERFECTLY. I also just love this book because everyone makes an appearance and that gives me something to be proud of, like yesss I read those other books and know I know who they're talking about, I am a sucker for crossovers in books. But what I also love is that the plot is mostly focussed on Sloane and Xavier as a couple and not on Xavier setting up the vault, like I love that but I need to read about the couple not some bar thank you. ⋆˙⟡ characters SLOANE, BABY GIRL, MOMMY😜😜😜😜 ⤿ just keep watching, tate mcrae MY GIRL DID NOT DISSAPOINT. She stood for herself and nobody could put her down AND WE LOVE THAT. (adding more soon) XAVIERRRRRR😩✋ ⤿ say it, tory lanez he can do anything he wants to me.I like Xavier but he is not super special I guess...🙄

Being able to listen to "King of Sloth" as an audiobook was such a pleasure. The delivery was done with such a beautiful rhythm and tone that it really brought this contemporary romance to life. Audiobook edition can be found here: King of Sloth - (Audiobook) In this book, an exceedingly charming and somewhat shrouded-in-mystery hero finds that he has developed feelings for a highly motivated and enterprising heroine. The mood impressed me, as Huang interlaced just the right hints of snappy humor and heart-warming sentimentality to keep the storyline engaging. The narrator's performance brought a certain depth to the characters and helped to differentiate the character voices. They were unique and emotive, allowing me to really delve into each character's world. If you enjoy contemporary romance stories with strong characters, and a little humor, then the audiobook of "King of Sloth" is definitely one I would recommend. It really does bring another dimension to the story and is not something that romance enthusiasts will want to miss out on.

She's grumpy and cold until he unravels her. He's sunshine, hopeful, and both protective and sweet. I honestly didn't think I'd love this as much as I did! Truthfully, it came down to one scene that pushed it from a 4 to a 5. Ana never misses for me!

“𝙇𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙞𝙨𝙣’𝙩 𝙖𝙗𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙥𝙚𝙧𝙛𝙚𝙘𝙩𝙞𝙤𝙣, 𝙇𝙪𝙣𝙖; 𝙞𝙩’𝙨 𝙖𝙗𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙞𝙢𝙥𝙚𝙧𝙛𝙚𝙘𝙩 𝙥𝙚𝙤𝙥𝙡𝙚 𝙘𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙩𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙞𝙧 𝙤𝙬𝙣 𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙨𝙞𝙤𝙣 𝙤𝙛 𝙝𝙖𝙥𝙥𝙞𝙡𝙮 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙖𝙛𝙩𝙚𝙧” ⏱️🥂💙✨⏱️🥂💙✨⏱️🥂💙✨⏱️🥂💙✨⏱️🥂💙✨⏱️🥂💙✨ ANA HUANG WILL NEVER FAIL ME. This was the best book to me. Like ever. Sloane and Xavier are my Roman Empire. My entire like everything in the history of everything. I love every single thing about them, I love this book, I LOVE IT ALL. so god help me if I don’t ever get me one of those Xavier’s WHATS THE POINT OF LIVINGGGGGG. Ok but truly Ana Huang needs to stop making me head over heels, my standards aren’t even up the roof. They are in the freakn sky.

IT DOESN'T END IN THAT THING I HATE & I AM ECSTATIC ABOUT IT 😍 also related to Sloane WAY too hard lmao

According to the Gaia hypothesis, the Earth is a living organism with the overall thrust of life being cooperative. Life on Earth self-regulates its environment to create optimum conditions for the advancement of life. The correct balance is held in place, perhaps cruelly, through population limiting disease. But some believe that this balance is at threat as the world’s population expands, unchecked. Could it be that Gaia is now being destroyed. If that’s the case, how can this imbalance be addressed? Doctor Lionel Scott, a British subject now working in America, had studied viral and bacterial diseases before working in a series of Third World countries. He’d subsequently found his way to the U.S. Army Medical School of Infectious Diseases and has, for the past year, been working at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico – a primary research facility into diseases that might be weaponised by an enemy. But now Scott is missing, and very high-ranking people are worried. Letty Davenport works for the Department of Homeland Security and is asked to undertake some background investigation into Scott, to ascertain whether he’s someone who might possibly go off the rails and, in essence become an existential threat. Her investigations begin in Oxford, England, where Scott began his studies. There, she makes contact with a weather-beaten but handsome MI5 agent, Alec Hawkins. Before long they’ve assessed that Scott may well pose a threat – a very serious threat. Letty’s dad, Lucas, is brought in as a member of a team whose mission is to find Scott and deal with any threat he poses. Also in this group are several other carry-over characters from previous books. Lucas is a natural hunter, and he’s in his element here, but Letty is a hard nut in her own right and is also never far from the heart of the action. They each have a role to play, and I think Sandford just about pulls off the trick of ensuring their partnership here doesn’t feel forced or false. However, events quickly escalate, and soon, the group is faced with a potential crisis. Sandford is a consummate storyteller, and once again he’s come up with an intelligent plot to grab his audience: it’s at once outlandish but also spookily plausible. In Lucas and Letty he’s developed characters who are clever, relentless, and unafraid of conflict. In addition, there’s always humour in his stories, and here’s it’s largely provided by Lucas as he’s forced to deal with Letty’s ambiguous relationship with Hawkins. It’s all cleverly balanced: I couldn’t help but be grabbed by the seriousness of the challenge faced, and yet a grin was also never far from my face. I wasn’t sure how I’d feel about the prospect of Lucas and Letty working together (something that’s felt inevitable for a while), but it really does work well here. That said, I hope this isn’t something that he repeats too often as I do like the subtle distinction he currently draws between books featuring his major characters (Lucas, Letty, and Virgil Flowers). Overall it’s another winner from one of the top crime fiction writers operating today. My thanks to Penguin Group Putnam for providing an ARC of this book via NetGalley in return for an honest review.

Okay, let me get my nitpick out of the way first. And it is a teeny nitpick – not a star destroying complaint. Ready? Okay… I miss Virgil (expletive-ing) Flowers. I want Virgil. Not a Virgil reference. Not an ‘as Virgil Flowers would say’. The books need Virgil. Now that I’ve gotten that out of the way (#sorrynotsorry), I will tell you that I loved this book! It’s a big story – a terrifyingly plausible possibly world-ending story and I was so there for it. Letty has definitely come into her own as a character and I’m all for it. She’s a complete badass and I get a kick out of her relationship with her dad. The book moves along at breakneck speed and I was sorry when it was over. I wanted more. Happily awaiting whatever comes next! • ARC via Publisher

The death of one man is a tragedy. The death of a million is a statistic. John Sanford, Toxic Prey (Page 9) This is a seriously scary story. With memories our recent pandemic still fresh we have a story about a scientist trying to start another pandemic. He is a follower of Gaia, a cult that worships the earth as the mother of all living things. But Mother Earth is dying from damage to her climate. The cult believes that Mother Earth has a virus, and that virus is humans. The scientist wants to save Mother Earth by developing a virus that will kill off half the world’s population. The Department of Homeland Security, where Letty Davenport is now working, catches wind of this plot. Letty enlists the help of her father, Lucas, and the chase is on. Several characters readers will be familiar with from previous stories join the hunt, which adds to the enjoyment. The really scary part of this story is that given our poor response to the COVID pandemic we are prey to this type of conspiracy. Once again we have a thrilling, fast-action ending and there is a significant bodycount in this story, but it does not reach the statistic level. This was another enjoyable Sanford book. Like all the Agatha Christie books there is similarity to them, but they always seem to have an interesting scenario.

As I said back in 2022 when Letty Davenport, the adopted daughter of U.S. Marshals Service officer Lucas Davenport and his physician wife, Weather, got a starring role for the first time in The Investigator, I enjoyed the book but kind of hoped it was a one-off. That's because I never really connected with Letty - maybe because I loved her dad (and mom and their friend Virgil Flowers) so much that I saw and resented her as some kind of intruder. Well, after reading the second book, both Letty and I grew up (well, she got older and wiser; as an octogenerian, I was already there physically, at least) and now we're cool. Anyhow, this story hits a timely - and frightening - topic of biological warfare. Early on, we see Dr. Lionel Scott, a fervent believer in "Gaia" - the theory that all living things on the planet interact with each other to create and maintain a synergetic system. Now, he is certain, the human side of that equation has gone out of control, thus threatening its delicate balance. To that end, he's come up with a deadly solution. But oops, he's nowhere to be found. Fortunately, Letty is reachable; she's called in to find him even before anyone realizes the consequences of his disappearance and the potential fallout thereof, so to speak. Since Scott is British, Letty is first sent to London, where she meets hunky (well of course!) M-15 agent Alec Hawkins, who will accompany her to Scott's alma mater, Oxford, to learn more about the guy - plus a few hangers-on who have drunk Scott's version of Kool-GaiAid. And what they learn is terrifying; immediately, Letty calls in the big guns including her father, Lucas. From that high-level meeting of the minds comes a plan to contain a deadly virus before it kills millions of unsuspecting and innocent people - even if it means killing more than a few unsuspecting and innocent people in the process. The rest of the book, really, is Lettie and all the "good" guys and gals trying to figure out how to outwit the "bad" guys and gals before they set loose a viral killer that could wipe out half of the world's population. Pretty heady stuff that sure grabbed my attention. Many thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for the opportunity to read and review a pre-release copy.

5 Stars. Wonderful read. I loved the chase. But I wasn't sure about it. After reading the GR description, I thought Sandford had taken Lucas and Letty Davenport into the science fiction world. A step too far for this mystery and thriller lover. Not the case. The antagonist is Dr. Lionel Scott, a virus scientist, who is concerned about the impact our species is having on the planet; he refers to the earth as Gaia. His hypothesis is that the earth and its biosphere is one living, self-regulating organism. It's a theory which was developed by James Lovelock in the 1970s. Is it nonsense as one character suggests? Letty rebukes him with, "It doesn't make any difference .. if Scott thinks it's real." We all know how dangerous the measles virus is and most of us know that mass vaccination will keep it in check. It's very contagious and prevalent everywhere. Scott wants to combine it with the less contagious but 80% fatal Marburg virus from Africa and spread the new virus across the globe through airports! Thus eliminating at least half the people on earth. And saving Gaia. Letty and Lucas try to find Scott and his crew in Taos, New Mexico. Can the town be locked down? I'll read it again! (Oc2025)

Disclosure: Received an uncorrected ARC of this book from NetGalley and GP Putnam's Sons/Penguin Random House LLC (Thank you!) in exchange for an honest review. Lucas AND Letty? Squee! I love, love, loved this book. No spoilers to ruin it for other readers but I will share that they do team up as they race against the clock to try to stop a madman who thinks he is saving the world in a truly horrific way. The pacing and tension of the story had me perched at the edge of my seat and it was incredibly difficult to put this book down, so much so I was sneak reading it during the Superbowl! The closer I got to the end of this book the more I did not want it to end. While there are a plethora of prior Lucas Davenport Prey novels and a few Letty Davenport novels you need not have read any of them to enjoy this novel. Really! While this is listed as the 34th Prey book it felt a bit more like a Letty novel, don't misunderstand, both are prominently featured but from my perspective it came across as weighted slightly more towards Letty. In addition to the suspenseful and thrilling storyline, I also appreciated that it shines a light on a host of difficult to solve issues, like climate change, that we should be thinking about. And as with his prior novels, the author continues to write and include powerful female characters. Past characters from both series also make appearances. If you are a longtime reader like me, you might miss that Virgil (f*cking) Flowers isn't part of the caper this time around, but you will appreciate that late in the novel there is a tidbit tucked in regarding how he is doing while we await the next installment of his series.

I would gladly nominate TOXIC PREY as the best summer beach read of 2024, but that is purely subjective and I haven't read enough that would classify as summer beach reads to be qualified to say so. But, in my opinion, this is clearly the best of the Prey novels in a long time. Thankfully, Sandford has his characters age as the series progresses, and the Prey formula was getting a little bit formulaic. The introduction of Letty Davenport, Lucas Davenport's adopted daughter, as a new character working for Homeland Security seems to have injected some new blood into the formula. All of the Letty Davenport novels, this being the third, have been exciting reads. This one is the best, although because of all the other characters involved in the story, Letty doesn't get as much of a spotlight as the other novels. This time she's paired up with her father investigating the disappearance of an offbeat scientist and the possibility that he's about to unleash a fatal biological threat to humanity in the form of a virus he may have developed. TOXIC PREY is a real page turner. The stakes have never been higher, and this is an intense read. I loved it. Highly recommended.

Great read but I just say I do miss the smaller scale stories about Lucas trying to find a killer in the Twin Cities.

FANTASTIC book! I couldn't put it down. The author has long been a master at his craft, but has outdone himself with this novel - a crime/medical thriller that kept me on the edge of my seat and turning pages just as quickly as possible. The premise of this book is absolutely sinister and likely to give me nightmares. I truly hope the author took extreme creative license and that the things contained in this book are not possible. I loved that Lettie and Lucas worked together in this book, along with some other favorite characters from prior books. If you are looking for a novel to keep you on the edge of your seat, you have found it. This one is a must read for fans of the genre. The author is on my must read authors' list.

Over the years, I have read MANY books by John Sandford, and have reviewed at least a dozen, with several being part of the Prey series. In 2019, writing about John Sandford’s Neon Prey, I wrote “There aren’t many authors whose latest book I eagerly await, and who maintain a consistently high level in terms of plot, character, and entertainment value. John Sandford has been one of those (along with Michael Connelly, Michael Robotham, Robert Crais, and Elizaeth George (OK, a few clunkers in the Lynley series, but overall still a fave). I was a bit surprised to realize that his latest, Neon Prey, is #29 in the Lucas Davenport series. I’m pretty sure I have read them all, and over the years I’ve come to know and love Lucas and some of his cronies, so I was happy to receive…” It was just last year that I realized that for the past several years, Sandford has released two books a year: A Lucas Davenport/Prey book in the spring, and a Virgil Flowers title in the fall. (Am I the only one who never realized this???). Although I have been less than thrilled with a couple of fairly recent titles, looking back I realize those were Flowers books, and the Lucas Davenport series has been more to my liking. So far, so good. Two titles a year: Lucas and Virgil. Then along comes Letty Davenport, Lucas’s adopted daughter, and in 2023 we got Dark Angel, featuring Letty on her own. And if that weren’t enough, 2024 brings us Toxic Prey, billed as “A Lucas and Letty Davenport Novel.” Thanks to Penguin Group/Putnam and NetGalley,I received a copy of this 34th in the Prey series in exchange for my honest review. I was REALLY looking forward to reading this one, because I love the interplay between Lucas and Letty, and the premise was interesting. In this one, we don’t have Virgil, but we do have a bunch of wackos who believe that, thanks to humans, the earth is dying and the best way to save it would be to turn a deadly virus loose and kill more than half the people alive. The genius behind this is Dr. Lionel Scott, an expert in infectious and tropical diseases, whose recent experience deals with crossing the Marburg virus with the fast-spreading measles we all know and love. Dr. Scott has disappeared, along with an unknown quantity of the new virus and several highly contagious people tasked with going to airports worldwide and unleashing the horror. OMG, what a scary premise! Letty works with Lucas and other specialists to track down Dr. Scott, his virus, and the “volunteers” who are working to “save the earth” (Gaia, as they call it). It’s very tension-filled, clever, and scary AF. I love Letty and Lucas both, but this one was VERY unsettling for me. I’m unclear how to rate it because it clearly was very well done to have scared me so much. But it’s such an awful premise I hate to give it five. But…it IS Sandford. And Lucas. And Letty. Five stars.

I'm a longtime fan of Sandford. Living in Minnesota I especially like the way his mysteries are so clearly set in a place. I can follow his characters as they move around because he uses actual places. I assume this is true for this mystery set mostly in Taos and Santa Fe. I've been to both and his descriptions sound like my memories, including Taos Ski Valley. Some of his books have been ho hum but lately he seems to have gotten back to form and while this book with terrorists and a potential pandemic more lethal than Covid was very different as far as I'm concerned he hit this one out of the park. I wasn't sure about Letty as a character but I'm growing to like her, especially as she begins to understand what she doesn't know. Lucas has never been my favorite character but he is so good that I can't help but be fascinated by him. In this book his confidence is a little bit rocked by working with and worrying about his daughter. For me that makes him more likeable. All in all I wasn't thrilled when Sandford seemed be combining all his best characters into single narratives but this one works. (Virgil has been by far my favorite Sandford character but he isn't in this one.) Definitely a 5 star.

You can always count on John Sanford for a thriller that you can’t put down!

Letty and Lucas on a case together. This was a longtime coming, and it finally happened in Toxic Prey. When a British Disease Scientist disappears without a trace, Letty is sent to Europe to help track him down. She soon realizes her worst nightmare, the scientist is somewhere in the United States, and might possibly have an infectious disease he is looking to spread to reduce the world population and save earth. Along with her British cohort/lover, she heads to the United States to track down this scientific terrorist. Along the way she enlist her dad, US Marshall Lucas Davernport and his fellow Marshall Rae Givens. Will Lucas and Letty be able to stop the scientists before it is too late, or will a deadly virus be released that kills millions of people across the globe? The story is good not great. Letty is still a little too sure of herself for being a newbie in the business, but it was fun to watch her and Lucas play off each other. The plot was pretty fast paced, and there was a lot happening throughout the novel. I did find the ending anticlimactic, but with the way the story wrapped up, I am not sure there was a better way to do it. I also found that this novel missed some of the trademark John Sanford humor that typically is inserted into this series. While I wouldn’t consider this one of the best Prey novels ever written, it is still a fun engaging read that is well worth the time. Lucas and Letty are interesting characters that can captivate an audience. Thank you to NetGalley, John Sandford, and Penguin Putnam Group for a free advanced copy for an honest review.

Toxic Prey is Book 34 in the Lucas Davenport series from John Sandford. This book is a Letty and Lucas story with just a mention of Virgil Flowers. "Dr. Lionel Scott knows that the earth is dying - Gaia is dying. There are too many people. As an expert in infectious diseases, he knows just how to take care of the problem. When Scott disappears, Letty is tasked with tracking him down. Scott's research into virus spread has people in multiple governments nervous. Letty enlists the help of Lucas and the Marshals Service and MI6. It soons becomes a race to stop him before the virus is unleashed on the world." This is not a new idea. Lots of books have someone creating a virus to reduce population. But Sandford puts his characters and fantastic pace into it and makes this a page-turning story. The action never lets up. And Sandford (who is masterful at writing bad guys) takes us into the middle of some true believers. Scary people who think nothing of killing billions. The ending is disturbing - Sandford doesn't hold back. I hope people in charge are paying attention. Can totally be read as a stand-alone. Another great story from Sandford.

I love all of the Prey novels, but if this wasn't my favorite (and it may be), it definitely was the most exciting and tense. World on the brink of a global pandemic that would make COVID look like a head cold and Lucas and Letty standing in the way. I think this is the first book that has a lot of interaction between Lucas and Letty...I like this direction! This is the only one of the Prey novels that made me tear up at the end. This is a great novel....but you MUST read these books in order to fully appreciate them.

I really enjoyed this book. It certainly kept my attention!

This was non-stop from start to finish with Lucas and Letty battling a madman bent on destruction of the world with a virus he created.

I didn't realize this was the third Letty book, or one of the first that Robert Petkoff narrated I mean honestly even after listening to the one and only Richard Ferrone for so long, I think Petkoff is phenomenal and gets the job done honorably Anyway, once again, I didn't realize this was the third Letty book. I read it shortly after finishing the prior Prey book and Lucas is taking a more supportive role that doesn't connect to his prior storylines too much. Rae is back which made me super happy. I also love the new to me Barb Cartwright character and can't wait to go back and see her prior storyline. I have read the series in order (except the Letty books) but felt like I was missing a lot of Letty material to get her from a college student in the last book I read, to someone with a high level of homeland security trust and clearance at such a young age. That aside, this feels like something a lot BIGGER than Lucas usually handles. The marshals got involved in tracking down a man who curated an extraordinarily deadly virus and his cohorts who were going to spread it into a worldwide attack. It was wall to wall action and tension, and I love the Hawkins character. Sandford doesn't usually take on other nationalities but I think he nailed the dry British sense of humor, and Petkoff narrated them absolutely perfectly. I probably read and listened to 50/50 of the book Overall I liked this book a lot but I need to go back and read Letty #1 and #2. I see in some reviews that she seems a bit too good for her experience level and age but us long time diehard Sandford fans seem willing to let it go in order to enjoy the story. I'll go back and read The Investigator and Dark Angel next to see what I missed!

Another engrossing, "can't put it down" thriller from John Sandford. This one will leave you with nightmares because it could be true! It could happen! Sandford uses the plague / pandemic theme, cranks it up to 1000 and let's it rip. And boy does he grab the theme and make it terrifying. Series star US Marshall Lucas Davenport teams up with his daughter Letty who now works for DHS (Dept of Homeland Security). Between the two of them and their law enforcement colleagues, they must foil a plot to unleash a plague, a virus that could decimate Earth's human population. Talk about a nightmare scenario. This is another "stay up all night" reading until the end. And you will, because who wants to go to sleep when there's a nightmare in their book. Kudos to Sandford for another thriller! Keep them coming.

I can't say enough about this book - it was one of the best books I've read in years and my favorite so far by John Sandford, long my favorite author. The story grips you from the very start, and involves the most captivating Sandford characters - Lucas Davenport and Letty Davenport with new regular character Rae Givens.. Written with the sharp realism and vivid scene-setting characteristic of Sandford, and his always perfect handling of dialogue is sharper than ever. It will be a long time before another book grips me this thoroughly. Highly, HIGHLY recommended.

loved it!!! Great story, scary in its plausibility. Sanford does such a good job developing the characters you feel like you know them. Ive read every one of the prey novels and I feel like I know the characters like family. I’m always sad to see the stories end and cannot wait for the next one.

Loved it. The last batch of Prey books have been top-notch going back to Ocean Prey. Sandford is aces, as always, in terms of pacing, dialogue, suspense and just the right amount of humor. The scenario in this one was truly terrifying. No sign of that fucking Flowers in this one though his name came up quite a bit. A fun suspenseful read again from John Sandford!

gripping novel Just wow. The plot, so feasible and frightening. Well developed in a believable way. I’ve read all of the Prey books, this is among the best. Letty is shown as bright, capable, mature, with nerves of steel and a lot of humanity. Stayed up late to finish this book. It nearly was the apocalypse, you’ll ponder this book for awhile.

Another 5 star for Elin! This book.. wow. SO many things I loved about it. The way she started each chapter or summer with the “What are we talking about in (insert year)” was such an amazing touch. I BAWLED at the end of this book. I love Mallory 😭🫶🏼

☀☀☀ 4.5 𝙨𝙬𝙚𝙚𝙩 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙝𝙚𝙖𝙧𝙩𝙬𝙖𝙧𝙢𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙨𝙩𝙖𝙧𝙨 ☀☀☀ I don't ever read books of this genre so my review should be taken with a grain of salt - or sand! -since I have nothing to compare 28 Summers to. I adored Mallory and Jake's secret relationship! It was so touching and uplifting! I found them both somewhat emotionally stunted and I doubt their love could have survived beyond their Labour Day bubble but it was perfect for them. I enjoyed watching the progression of all the characters over three decades, and I also enjoyed the displays of friendship, forgiveness, grief and acceptance. What I don't enjoy is political propaganda in a fiction book but I wasn't 𝙩𝙤𝙤 bothered by it here just because it was used to reflect Ursula's character and I didn't feel the author was trying to force feed me her views. So I guess my only complaint about this wonderful book is the ending. Besides the fact that I found it slightly, err.... corny is that I think that had the 𝙛𝙞𝙧𝙨𝙩 chapter not spoiler-ed the 𝙡𝙖𝙨𝙩 chapter then it would have been more effective.

I will think about this book until the end of time... <3 a million stars out of 5

4.5 Stars ”’Everyone is human…Every single one of us.’” This is my 6th Elin Hilderbrand book and she is quickly becoming a favorite author of mine (like many, I'm sure). Her ability to write morally gray characters and/or morally decent characters who make "immoral" decisions - human decisions - is something I really appreciate. I also really love her writing style and the setting of Nantucket. I was very invested in all the characters here. I only wish the ending had some closure.

It’s like a fairy tale. It’s like a game of Would You Rather? Would you rather have perfect bliss for only three days or a solid but dull relationship all year long? Mallory would choose Jake every time. Okay. WELL. I don't even really know where to start, since 28 Summers left me with so many conflicting thoughts and feelings that I'm having a hard time disentangling and making sense of them all, leaving me at a total loss for words. But first things first, I guess. Don't let the title of the book fool you. It's a total misnomer. Mal and Jake don't spend 28 summers together. They spend 28 weekends together, albeit long Labor Day weekends. It would have been more accurate had the book been called 28 Labor Days or even 28 Long Weekends. Granted, those titles aren't nearly as catchy as the one that was chosen, but at least they're more representative of Mal and Jake's time together. This brings me to my greatest and only real grievance with 28 Summers: very little of the actual narrative is dedicated to covering Mal and Jake's time together. While the events of the story take place over 28 Labor Day weekends, we only see them together for maybe a quarter of those long weekends—and even that is a generous estimate. Most of the narrative focuses on their lives apart and covers their major life events each year, with only intermittent and brief accounts of their annual Labor Day encounters, which only grow more infrequent and briefer as the story goes on. In a feat of mythic proportions, I somehow managed not to cry while reading the book, even though the ending absolutely gutted me. The prologue completely spoiled the ending, so you would think that I would've been better prepared for how it inevitably ended since I'd had the whole damn book to come to terms with it, but NOPE. I still found myself bitterly unprepared for the emotional havoc that the ending wreaked on my feelings. I absolutely hated it. But I loved it, too. I guess I'm just a masochist like that. My heart hurts too much to dissect my thoughts on 28 Summers any further right now, except to say that cancer sucks and so does suffering caused by people not acting on—or, at the very least, sharing—their feelings. At the risk of sounding like a bad, clichéd inspirational quote on Pinterest, life is too goddamn short not to tell someone how you feel. Mal and Jake are literally the proof in the pudding. Ugh. I haven't felt this empty after finishing a book since I read The Kremlin's Candidate last year. I need a drink. Or five.

I enjoyed the intro to each chapter- it was like a blast from the past 😎 This was a page-turner for me. I liked the setting and the characters. 😘 A forbidden romance- incredibly frustrating and heartbreakingly sad. I didn’t love the ending- but- I can’t stop thinking about the story. So for me, it’s the mighty five! ⭐️

Title :- 28 Summers After reading this lovely book I’m now bitterly regretting not visiting Nantucket when I was in Cape Cod on holiday! I might relocate! Mallory Blessing is lucky enough to inherit a beachside cottage from her beloved Aunt Greta. Dissatisfied with life in New York City and finding her roommate Leland a trial she relocates in 1993. Her brother Cooper visits one Labour Day weekend and she meets Jake McCloud and it’s love for life. Unfortunately, Jake can’t relocate, he’s been in an on off relationship with ambitious Ursula de Goursey who he later marries but his heart belongs to Mallory. However, the Labour Day weekend becomes their precious time in Nantucket and it settles in to a ‘same time next year’ relationship. The story is told over 28 summers from several perspectives. I love that each year starts with a what are we talking about in ..... that particular year as it takes us through some momentous events, those who caught the headlines that year, music and films and so on. Doesn't take a genius to figure what the main topic of conversation for 2020 will be. The characters of Jake and Mallory are so likeable and it’s so frustrating that they have real love that is secret and hidden and you just want them to be together! Some of the characters are selfish, self centred and career driven such as Leland and Ursula but they make a great contrast to Jake and Mallory. The story is very well written with personal touches that makes you feel as if the author is talking to you or reading the words aloud just for you which makes you even feel more invested in the storytelling. The dialogue is smart, sometimes funny, at times it’s sad, there’s tragedy too so there’s the whole range of aspects of real life. Overall, I loved it! Although the love between Jake and Mallory is a secret, it’s the real deal and so they do ‘fill their cups’ . The setting is wonderful and gives a fairy tale feel to the storytelling and like a lot of fairy tales there isn’t always a happy ending. With thanks to NetGalley and Hodder and Stoughton for the ARC.

I am so bummed to be done with this book, but at the same time was racing to finish it to see how it ended. I LOVED this book. I am already rearranging in my head my list of top 10 that I have read so far this year to make room for this one. I did it on audio and the narrator was fantastic! A perfect fit for this story. Admittedly this is my first book by Elin Hilderbrand, and will not be my last. I know I must have been living under a rock. I do feel it will set the bar a little too high off the bat but will try to keep that in mind going forward with her other pieces of work. This book is based on the film “Same Time, Next Year”, and yes I intend to watch it. For 28 Summers Mallory and Jake not only watch the movie every Labor Day weekend, they also have a one-weekend-per-year affair. No communication. No calls, no texts, and no emails until they see each other the “same time next year”! So let's begin with the elephant in the room. The "affair". Even the synopsis tells us they have an affair. I think in order to really enjoy this book you may need to overcome that hurdle. If you can't get past the moral aspect for a fiction book your experience may not be the same. I jumped that hurdle and then dove right into this one and I really enjoyed it. I can't say I loved most of the decisions both the main characters made over the course of the years, but isn't that life. We make decisions, we make mistakes, we carry on with life, we move forward. But somehow despite not loving their decisions I loved them as characters and loved them together and their long weekend each year. I found them to be normally flawed and real and this in turn made them all the more believable and relatable. I loved the chapter set up and how the author put us in each year as if we were there by noting historical news events and pop culture trends. I loved the references to books that fit the timelines and took special note of many of them that I had read or now intend to read. These touches within the chapters were unique in my opinion. While the overall concept of the book isn't entirely unique and original I think she did a great job of making it her own. It took me a few chapters to get used to the writing style, in places it was more like bullet points and observations, but it really grew on me and was fitting for the way their relationship was documented. The short bursts of information and updates matched the short bursts of time their relationship had. Each year I was curious to see how the Labor Day weekend would come into play and how it would present itself and it did so seemlessly, year after year. I was amazed at how little they genuinely knew about each other due to the restrictions they imposed on themselves for not contacting each other in between their annual weekend. I really liked the ending and have already recommended this book to friends and family. I can't wait to choose another book by this author.

A forbidden love story that will have you feeling so invested in the characters you almost forget it’s also a tale of adultery. ⁣ ⁣ I listened to the audio of this amazing book (thank you librofm) and I was smitten with Mallory and Jake. Listening to their love story unfold over one magical long weekend in Nantucket, year after year, for 28 years both broke my heart and filled it up. ⁣ ⁣ Based on the film 𝘚𝘢𝘮𝘦 𝘛𝘪𝘮𝘦 𝘕𝘦𝘹𝘵 𝘠𝘦𝘢𝘳 , we are captivated by their love story, despite the fact they can never truly be together. What a moral dilemma this story poses - both for Mallory and Jake and for us readers! Do we root for them? Should we feel happy they have this time together despite the wrongness of infidelity and their deceit? You’re left wondering how something so wrong can feel so right because despite all this, I was all in you guys - 𝘯𝘰 𝘮𝘢𝘵𝘵𝘦𝘳 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵! This love story had me hooked. ⁣ ⁣ A perfect summer read that will have you wishing you were on the beach in Nantucket. Highly recommend this one and it’s definitely one of my new fave Elin Hilderbrand books! ⁣ ⁣

I don't have the words for how much I loved this book. This is a book for anyone -- from the totally hopeless sixteen-year-old romantic still waiting to fall in love, to the long-settled middle aged person who has a little bit of the hopeless romantic left in them, to the most cynical reader of any age or gender who normally does not read romances. I seriously dare anyone to be unmoved by this book. This book is about Mallory and Jake, who meet and almost immediately fall in love, but the circumstances are never right for them to be together. So they agree to meet once a year in Nantucket, in the same way the lead actors in the movie "Same Time Next Year" met every year. They continue this one weekend a year romance tover 28 years. They continue even as Jake marries an up-and-coming female politician, even as both have children, even as their lives take different twists and turns. Though it never seems to be the right time for one or the other of them to make a permanent move to be together, they both always want to, and Jake always shows up at Mallory's cottage in Nantucket every Labor Day weekend, no matter what. The book begins with this so it's not really a spoiler: it's 2020, Mallory has cancer and she wants to see Jake. The book then backs all the way up to the first summer Mallory and Jake met and all the 28 summers of their love affair since. I absolutely loved both Mallory and Jake. The characters were beautifully drawn. I even came to love some of the less lovable characters, like Ursula, by the end. The plot is so well-done, the characters so great, and the 28 summers woven beautifully through the story. I am a slightly demanding reader of novels classified as "romance" or "chick lit." I don't read just every one that comes along. I need them to have a strong emotional center, great writing, exceptional characters, and I need them to deliver something more than just sex. This book has all that and more. I loved every minute of this book and did not want it to end....but at the same time, found I was turning pages at a fast and furious pace. This is my favorite Elin Hilderbrand book so far. Though often referred to as "beach reads," and though it is true they are compulsively readable and page-turning, Hilderbrand's books don't get the credit they are due for the quality of the writing. This one was perfection. It went straight to my heart and will probably stay there for some time. Big thanks to Little, Brown, NetGalley, and Elin Hilderbrand for the advance copy of a wonderful book. I'd also love to see this book get made into a movie.

I fear I have a love/hate relationship with this author’s books. Either I love them or I hate them. There doesn’t seem to be an in-between. Sometimes her books are cliché and sometimes they rock you. This one, I believe will rock you. And thus, in this case, I love this book. Not adored by all her reviewers, it is understandable why some may have turned on her. Inspired by the film, ‘Same Time, Next Year’ we have Mallory and Jake who are committed to seeing each other every Labor Day weekend over the next 28 summers. What happens in-between those years defines them, and what happens outside of that time engages us as readers. We wonder why they would choose this for themselves – is it real? Is it love? Is it sustainable? As a reader we have to ask ourselves – does it matter, if it makes us cry, laugh, swoon, feel such emotions, too? There is something to love about the characters, even if you may not agree with what they are doing, you can’t help but want the best for them as you follow them through the years. Or do you? And, that might be where reviewers get tough with the author. Who knows? Is it the political side story – or something more? Personally, I felt engaged. I wanted to know what was going to happen. Especially when the prologue took us to such an unusual emotional place. The supporting characters are interesting too and provide a dynamic to the storyline, as well. I experienced a gamut of emotions – many that don’t need to be identified – I think anyone who attempts this book, will discover them on their own. But one thing is certain – the author got me to want to read this book, all the way through. I’ll be interested to learn what you think, too.

I really loved this lovely "love" story. It was wonderful and sad but very well written and in a great style. first book I've read by this author but won't be the last. Story is about a man and women who fall in love and meet for Labor Day weekend over 28 summers of their life. The man is married to someone else who has a big hold over him and he can't let go but he feels he loves this other woman. There are all sorts of friends and family involved in this story and you enjoy knowing each of them. Definitely recommend.

Might be my fave EH book—and that’s saying a lot!!

•Description• Same time next year Nantucket True love •Rating• ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 5 Stars A Must Read! •Review• I started this audiobook last summer and finally finished it. Listening to it here and there when working around the house or driving. To say I savored it would be an understatement...but I definitely did savor it. This is a good ole Elin Hildebrand novel at it's finest. Everything we love about her writing. I loved the characters and that the story spanned 28 Summers. Look 8 •Similar Recommended Reads• Beyond the Point Eleanor Oliphant The Girl with the Louding Voice

perfect perfect perfect book

Inspired by the movie Same Time, Next Year, 28 Summers tells the love story of Mallory Blessing and Jake McCloud. 28 Summers is like a time capsule of my adult life. I immediately fell in love with Mallory who is lost in New York City and is being tossed aside by her roommate/friend Leland. The inherited cottage on Nantucket is perfect for her, and the fact that she becomes an English teacher is even more perfect. (I wonder if Elin ever saw herself becoming an English teacher on Nantucket.) The fact that the characters are developed over many years instead of just a weekend or one summer makes them all literally come to life for the reader.

“𝘕𝘰 𝘔𝘢𝘵𝘵𝘦𝘳 𝘞𝘩𝘢𝘵.”⁣ ⁣ Gosh, this story wrecked me. My heart strings were pulled in so many directions.⁣ ⁣ Mallory Blessing is a lovely, kind young woman who inherits her aunt’s beach cottage in Nantucket after she passes away. Mallory uproots her life and moves there, becomes an English teacher and lives carefree on the beautiful island.⁣ ⁣ One Labor Day weekend, Mallory’s brother Coop comes in for his bachelor party with his best friend from college Jake and him and Mal get extremely close. However, Jake ends up getting back together with his long time girlfriend Ursula but promises Mal three days every Labor Day weekend. ⁣ ⁣ Jake becomes Mall’s same time next year, no matter what, for 28 years. Elin reminds you of everything going on in the world year after year, while pulling on your heart strings over and over again. Giving you hope, And making you feel that true love once a year is better than no love at all or short term flings. ⁣ ⁣ Mallory was such a wonderful character and I just adored her. Her and Jake were perfect. I loved the beach vibes. I didn’t want the story to stop, until it did and it shattered me. ⁣ ⁣ Thank you @libro.fm for the audio of this book. I loved every second of it.⁣ ⁣ ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⁣ #bookstagram #books #28Summers #beachcanyouread #summerread #bookishgirlgang

All I can say right now is that 28 Summers is by far the best Elin Hilderbrand novel yet. I absolutely adored everything about this book, and I was even left bawling my eyes out when this story was over 😭. We get to go through 28 Summers with Mallory and Jake, and in doing so we grow attached to their characters. I fell in love with Mallory, and I related and connected to her character so much!! The first summer starts off in 1993, and then it concludes in 2020. At the beginning of each chapter (or rather summer year), Hilderbrand gives a small recap of what was popular or trending that year. It was so nice taking that stroll down memory lane, as well as getting more involved with the characters and story development. I don’t want to give the whole book away, but I do highly recommend reading it. 28 Summers has become one of my all time personal favorites, and I hope it does for you too.

ELLE WOODS WROTE A THRILLER

Phew. I just closed the last page—and I’m still catching my breath. This was a true roller-coaster of a read. I started and finished this book in one day because I simply could not walk away. At its core, this is a high-stakes thriller driven by global medical intrigue, shadowy corruption, and the ethical tightrope of scientific advancement. The story opens in a makeshift clinic in North Africa, where Marc, an American doctor, is performing a life-saving surgery when everything is violently interrupted. The moment is chaotic, unsettling—and deliberately incomplete—leaving both outcome and meaning just out of reach. A year later, we meet Dr. Maggie McBride. Once a highly skilled surgeon with a military background, she’s the kind of doctor who thrives under pressure—precise, fearless, and relentless when lives are on the line. But when we meet her, she is also deeply fractured, in immense grief, and carrying the weight of whatever happened in North Africa. Her medical license has been revoked, her professional world has turned its back on her, and yet beneath it all, Maggie is a fighter. When an unexpected opportunity pulls her back in to the operating theater, she doesn’t just step forward—she pushes through, driven as much by instinct as by the need for answers. As Maggie moves across an international landscape—Russia, Dubai, London, France—the tension builds with each turn. This isn’t just a physical journey; it’s a test of resilience. Her surgical expertise, military-honed instincts, and emotional endurance all come into play as danger closes in and the truth reveals itself in fragments. Just when we think we have a foothold, the story shifts again, keeping both Maggie—and the reader—off balance. And that’s what makes this such a compelling read: the uncertainty. The shifting ground beneath every answer. The lingering question of who can be trusted—and whether the truth, when it finally comes, will be enough. Taut, fast-paced, and anchored by a protagonist who refuses to break, this is a page-turner in every sense of the word.

4.5-5⭐️ RTC.

Ever since I heard that one of my favourite thriller writers (HC) had teamed up with one of my favourite actresses/producer (RW), I knew I HAD to read this book. I had NO idea what the book was actually about but my hopes were high. How did they do? A solid 5 🌟 baby! It was honestly so much better than I ever imagined 🙇🏻‍♀️ The best way I can describe this book is to say that it reads like you are watching a movie 🎥 - an action/psychological thriller at that. There was a perfect balance of escalating tension, pace, and emotion. This holistic approach delivered ALL the feels from adrenaline rushes to heartache. And underlying it all was a very well written, detailed plot. Maggie McCabe, our MFC is wavering on the brink. She has always lived life on the edge as a highly thought-of and skilled Army combat surgeon. It was all going to plan…until life had other things in store and suddenly…it wasn’t. After a series of devastating tragedies, leading to her medical license being revoked, Maggie is struggling. She’s lost her purpose in life, but her passion and fortitude remain. Rock bottom and deep in debt, she is thrown a lifeline. A chance to regain her position as a surgeon. Only this time it comes with absolute discretion and more money than she could ever imagine… This anonymous job takes her halfway across the world to the lap of luxury and cutting-edge technology. Here, Maggie enters one of the world's most mysterious men’s realm to fulfil her agreement. However, when the patient suddenly disappears, Maggie too must become a fugitive, or she’ll be the next to be gone before saying goodbye 👋🏼 Maggie was a FANTASTIC character. From the beginning, there was a lot of groundwork down to solidify her character and her connections. She felt like such a genuine, real person in the way she expressed herself and experienced situations. I found myself rooting for her from beginning to end. I wanted to know EVERYTHING about her darkness and long-buried secrets. I love that they chose a ‘flawed’ MFC because it showed that even the smartest and strongest people carry around heavy baggage, and furthermore, she shone through her struggles, because of them. I also have to give a special mention to Porkchop. He was BRILLIANT!! His presence really grounded the book and gave an opportunity for both humour and personal connection. The AI elements were an unexpected, very interesting twist I have never seen done before. Usually I HATE AI; it’s just a me thing. But, for some reason, they made it work. It was interwoven into the plot with ease and discretion. It never felt offensive or out of place. Rather it added both an emotional and am extra layer of medical detail to the plot. Overall, this was a fantastic, fast-moving, detailed thriller that flowed with easy and was incredibly compelling to read. Often with collabs, the writing or the plot suffers but that was NOT the case here. Every aspect of this book worked for me, including a very satisfying conclusion (must read the epilogue!!). I love the emotion that was added to this action-packed thriller, it gave a more rounded and realistic view. I LOVE this collaboration and can’t wait to see if they team up again soon 👀 5 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟

4.5 ⭐️ rounded up ! Review coming soon. Shocked at the low ratings on here

I have been dying to read this book ever since I heard about it months ago. What a combination! when my pre orders finally arrived it had a damaged cover and I was so disappointed 😞 But in the end it didn’t stop me diving straight in and devouring the story. I would love to know how these 2 wrote this together. It reads very much in the voice of Harlan Coben, and I have read all of his books. It is his style, his pace and all the twists and turns that we love in his writing. I haven’t read a medical thriller in a long time and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It was hard to stop reading this book, it moves at such a fast pace and was such a page turner. Full of action and suspense, but also lots of emotion and loss. It walked make a fantastic movie one day. Full of characters that I wasn’t sure were able to be trusted which I loved. Just when you think you know what is happening, something changes the direction once again. Maggie’s grief and her reliance on AI as a copping tool was interesting, something I hadn’t read before. A thrilling read from start to finish and I that I highly recommend.

Coming October 14, this is another 5 star read from Harlan and a dynamic debut for Reese! There were twists and turns I didn’t expect and I really didn’t want this to end. For long time Coben fans, you’ll recognize a name or two along the way! I purchased tickets to see these two on pub week in NYC and I really can’t wait to hear them discuss! Trust me, you’re going to want to read this! Thank you to Grand Central for an advanced copy. All opinions are my own.

Gone Before Goodbye by Harlan Coben and Reese Witherspoon I picked this book up after seeing it everywhere and was especially curious because of Reese Witherspoon’s involvement. I went in completely blind without reading the summary, which turned out to be both a challenge and a payoff. The opening chapters caught me off guard. The story begins in a military and humanitarian crisis setting, and for a moment I was worried I’d accidentally picked up a military or war focused book, which isn’t usually my thing. While that opening is absolutely essential to the story, it isn’t fast paced, and I did struggle a bit to push through the first couple of chapters at the start. Around 30 percent in, I was fully hooked. By 40 percent, I realized just how important those early chapters really were, and by the halfway point I couldn’t put it down. The beginning of the story the author is doing a lot of quiet, intentional work. It sets the stage for everything that follows, and once the story unfolds, that groundwork planned sense. By the end, I wanted to immediately go back and reread the opening with fresh eyes. Maggie was a standout character for me. She felt genuinely real in the way she processed emotions, solved problems, and moved through the story. Nothing about her felt forced or overly polished. Pork Chop was another favorite. Even though he appears often, I found myself wishing he had even more page time. His role as a steady, protective presence added something vital to the story. In a book where almost nothing feels safe or secure, he brought a sense of emotional grounding, especially in his relationship with Maggie. One detail I really appreciated was the choice not to name every minor character. Using descriptions like “grumpy guy” or “muscle man” kept the story clean and easy to follow without overwhelming the reader with unnecessary names. It made it clear who mattered long-term and who was only important within a single scene. This didn’t feel like a traditional suspense thriller to me. Instead, it played more like an action movie on the page. Once it gets moving, the pacing is fast and relentless, with very little downtime. I’d classify this as a medical, military, mafia-style action thriller. It’s well written and detailed, but it’s not what I’d call a “popcorn thriller.” There’s a lot of medical and technical language, and while I didn’t personally feel overwhelmed, I can see how some readers might find it difficult or distracting at times. The audiobook narration was TOP TIER. I’m picky about narrators, and this worked incredibly well for me. There are five different voice actors, including Reese Witherspoon, and all of them were strong and engaging. The multiple narrators made the complex story much easier to follow. If this had been done with only one or two voices, I don’t think I would have kept up as easily. One important note: make sure you read the epilogue. It ties up loose ends and adds real closure to the story. This isn’t the book I’d recommend to someone looking for a quick, easy thriller, but for readers who enjoy detailed, fast-moving stories with strong characters and big ideas, this really works. I’m giving it a solid five stars. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Content Warnings: This book contains mild to moderate violence and some strong language. It includes medical and military-related themes, as well as high-stakes situations that may be intense for some readers. There are no intimate or sexual scenes.

Gone Before Goodbye by Harlan Coben and Reese Witherspoon Thriller, mystery. Maggie McCabe is a former Army combat surgeon. After the loss of her husband and professional practice issues, she’s lost her medical license. She’s contacted by an anonymous client and then flown halfway across the world to preform plastic surgery in the elite world where money can buy anything. Maggie gets suspicious about why she’s there and if she’ll ever get back home. 🎧 I listened to an audiobook narrated by Reese Witherspoon, Chris Pine, Kiff VandenHeuvel, Suehyla Et-Attar Young, Peter Ganin, Saskia Maarleveld, and James Fouhey. The performances are wonderful and bring a live action feel to the audiobook. It’s mesmerizing and anxiety building as Maggie gets deeper into the mystery and she clings to the memories of her husband. The different narrators make it easy to follow character changes and conversations, especially with the two heavily accented patients. Suspenseful and electrifying. I’m left wondering about the powerful and what we don’t know. And being happy about not knowing. I received a copy of this from Hachette Audio.

My latest book, the one I’m still trying to finish, is something new for me. Sparring Partners is a small collection of short novels, known as novellas, they’re too short to be novels and too long to be short stories — thus, novellas. I wrote them for several reasons one of which is I’m still stuck at home with COVID and can’t do anything else, so I’m writing far too much, but most importantly these are stories I’ve had for a long time. I hope you enjoy them.

This is classic Grisham with three novellas taking us back into familiar territory in multiple ways. "Homecoming" stars our old friend Jake and the dilemma of a lawyer on the lam. "Strawberry Moon" takes us back to Death Row at Parchman and we spend the last day with an inmate who has lined his cell with nearly 2,000 paperback novels. Loved his many book references and the visit with the sweet little lady who helped him build that collection. Finally, a family feud in St. Louis (Hello, to my home state of Missouri.) is the focus of the final chapter--"Sparring Partners." Something happens with a Speckled King Snake that I hope NEVER EVER happens to me. Eeek! Totally enjoyed this collection and I hope you do as well. Many thanks to Doubleday and Edelweiss+ for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.

Arghhh! These short stories made me craving for more! Great story lines.

3 novellas in the usual John Grisham style, which I love. Homecoming - 4 * . All the familiar characters from the Jake Brigance series are back in this one. It is an extension of the short story 'Fish Files' (one of the stories in 'Ford County' collection).I liked it but the ending was abrupt. Mack's daughter was annoying Strawberry Moon - 5 * - Grisham's pet subject of death row. It was sad and also humorous. The young man who faces execution in a few hours discusses books with his benefactor. This gave an interesting insight into a few books. I feels sad that even an accomplice to murder (not pre-planned) can be executed in some states in the US. Sparring Partners - 5 * - This was fun. Love the intricate plot.

Three great stories packed into one book. From lawyers’ shenanigans to the viewpoint of a likely unjustly convicted death row inmate the tales told are intriguing and interesting. Characters both familiar and new are well drawn and developed. A thoroughly enjoyable read.

What a delightful sorbet. Three shorties from John Grisham, who never disappoints me, each with a point. The middle one, Strawberry Moon, as narrated by Ethan Hawke, gives an original take on the importance of books and the connections they forge. It also is a further examination of Grisham's stance against capital punishment. The one that made me laugh, however, was the titular entry. Sparring Partners, sly and hilarious, may have held a hidden take on the ability of power to pardon the guilty -- think tRump. Glad Grisham has not been wasting his time in lockdown.

John Grisham has kept me turning pages for over 30 years, these three novellas were just as wonderful as anything he has written before. He has not “sold out” like some of the other popular writers. Homecoming stars Jake Brigance and another sneaky lawyer, who just defies the odds and does it his way! Strawberry Moon was the story of execution night on Death Row, very moving. It certainly makes you think twice about the death penalty. Cody Wallace, NO - Nikolas Cruz - YES. The Sparring Partners pits two warring brothers (lawyers not boxers!) up against one another. An intricate plot with a super ending. And I thought this book was going to be another sports story - don’t judge a book by it’s title!!

Loved all three stories even if they were cliff hangers

I’m not surprised this has already hit the bestseller list! I felt lucky to be one of the first to get it off the library book shelf. This book has 3 novellas. All 3 have one thing in common. Will it be obvious? The first, ‘The Homecoming’ has one of Grisham’s favorite character’s Jake Brigance, a small-town lawyer from Clanton, Mississippi who finds himself in the middle of an interesting ‘issue’ involving a divorced father who once fled the area who now wants to reconnect with his daughters. The only thing is, when he fled, did he break the law, and will his return create a problem for him? The question for us as readers is, who do we want to root for – the father or …? You don’t think I am going to give away spoilers do you?! In ‘Strawberry Moon’ we meet Cody Wallace a 28-year-old death row inmate who has only 3 hours left to live. He has been on death row since he was convicted at 14 years old. Yes, as readers we may have a reaction about the justice system, too. Cody has only one request to make – and as we patiently wait to learn what it could be – we learn of his back story that led him to a life behind death row bars. We also are reunited with many beloved books… (which you will find out what I mean, when you pick up this book to read on your own!). But, most of all, stay with Cody to the end, because the strawberry moon gives meaning to why it is the perfect title for this story. The third story is the same title as the book. I need to sigh here, because my question becomes, what happens when you don’t like any characters in the story? What are we waiting for? Knowing the author, there is always a catch, so what is it? The good news is, it is a short story. It doesn’t take long to get to the answer…but, it is somewhat painful getting there, knowing that there is nobody to root for…at least, in my mind. Or maybe, just maybe, there is one character to appreciate. And with that one, Mr. Grisham does the right thing, and makes reading the story worthwhile after all. Of course!

This was a book of supposedly short stories. It was really one short story and two not-so-short ones. All were excellent, but I enjoyed the two longer ones more. The book takes its title from the second of the two longer stories. The first was about JakeBrigance and his missing friend Mack Stafford. Mack tries to come home with varying results. The short story was about a man on Death Row who was convicted when he was only 15. The last story, also titled Sparring Partners, is far too complicated to get into without re-writing the story, which I am not about to do. Trust me, you'll like it. I'm not a short story fan, but did enjoy these. Well -- it's John Grisham.

What a tour de force Bennett has achieved with The Vanishing Half. Brilliant and complex, this story surpassed all my expectations and more. Twins Desiree and Stella couldn't wait to leave behind the small, black town they've grown up in. At sixteen, they finally seize their chance and run away. More than a decade later, the twins have lost touch with each other. One comes back to town with a black daughter, while the other lives across the country, passing for white while hiding her past. As time goes on, they and their respective daughters realize you can never quite cut the ties of the past. This book touches upon so many worthwhile topics. The themes of race and racism captured in this book are among the most nuanced and insightful I have come across. At its core, racism is the opportunity for one group to make themselves feel better by acting out to oppress another. There is no group that is immune to being the oppressor, including those that are oppressed themselves. The way the light-skinned colored people of Mallard act towards dark-skinned people both captures the insidiousness of racism (racism only begets more racism) and its pervasiveness in society. I appreciate the book's honesty on this, no matter how disheartening it is to think about. Another interesting theme captured over and over is whether someone can ever leave their past and heritage behind to make a clean start. The twins ran away thinking they could be the controller of their own destiny. But as they grow older and their paths diverge, it becomes apparent that their years growing up in Mallard continues to follow them. Even as they meet different opportunities and experiences, their past still contributes to shape their decisions and ultimately where they end up. It's possible to live separate lives through different decisions, as illustrated by the twins' dual contrasting paths, but they still remain within the parameters of their past. The twins' daughters are also molded by their mothers, yet they are a new generation, the first to break through the confines of their mothers' past. The daughters could truly say they are making strides when it comes to racism, having been given increased opportunities, which allow them to become more open and accepting than their mothers (as racism begets more racism, opportunities beget less). Another interesting point is that one daughter grew up with privilege and wealth, while the other grew up wanting. Yet, through choices and motivations, the one who grew up with less arguably ended up with more. And that is an encouraging thought. This story covers so much ground, both in terms of the strands of the twins' and their daughters' narratives, as well as its exploration of race, gender, identity, and belonging. The writing is beautiful and poignant, flowing smoothly along while guiding the reader from one insightful observation to another. What a powerful read, indeed. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

Although the first 1/3 of the book was slow, once we start to see how two generations diverge and they connect later on, I became invested in each person's individual journeys as they grappled with race, loneliness, colorism, abuse, motherhood, and a sense of identity. I enjoyed reading about these women and also adored the male side characters (Reese makes me so soft!) It’s a poignant and lovely story that takes you through several lifetimes with empathy and hope.

Completely absorbing. Intricate prose. Deep characterization. Bennett exceeded my expectations with her second novel.

I'm not sure I have words for how excellent this book turned out to be, but terms such as "breathtaking, poignant, and ultimately hopeful" come to mind. I was constantly reminded of the golden oldie movie Imitation of Life (1959) in regards to the discussions surround race, class, and gender, while also featuring a plot thread where a light skinned Black teenager is living her life passing as white. If you are wary of the hype, like I typically am, please know this is one instance where the substantial amount of praise is fully warranted, and I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a story that is equal parts educational and entertaining.

oooh, goodreads choice awards finalist for best historical fiction 2020! what will happen? THIS HAPPENED: CONGRATULATIONS, WINNER! goodreads choice awards best HISTORICAL FICTION 2020! There were many ways to be alienated from someone, few to actually belong. i know it looks like i’m over here five-starring a lot of books in a row all of a sudden, but it’s not so much that i’ve lucked into a run of excellent reading choices as it is me finally sitting down to review books so good it's been intimidating me to even think about reviewing them. ALTHOUGH—if we’re being super-duper honest, Blacktop Wasteland and Betty were both 4s going in (but 4.5s in my heart) that got bumped up to fives when rereading them for the review made me remember how dingdang good they were. this one was a five out of the gate. it’s so good i don’t even know where to start. it’s a family saga that takes place over the course of forty or so years, beginning in 1938 with the birth of twin sisters stella and desiree vignes in the town of mallard, louisiana; a black community with an unusual beginning: The idea arrived to Alphonse Decuir in 1848, as he stood in the sugarcane fields he’d inherited from the father who’d once owned him. The father now dead, the now-freed son wished to build something on those acres of land that would last for centuries to come. A town for men like him, who would never be accepted as white but refused to be treated like Negroes. A third place. the residents embraced their founder’s dream of a more perfect Negro. Each generation lighter than the one before, and by the time the vignes girls—his great-great-great-granddaughters—are born, his bloodline has been bleached into “creamy skin, hazel eyes, [and] wavy hair," none of which attributes protect them from racism; from seeing their father lynched in their home when they are little girls, or from race factoring into their lives and shaping their opportunities when they run away from home as teenagers. they live together in new orleans for a few years before stella abruptly cuts ties with her sister and disappears into a new life that she will live as a white woman—marrying a wealthy white man and raising a daughter who has no idea she's anything but white. meanwhile, desiree will leave the abusive father of her own daughter and move back to mallard, her child's exceptional darkness there unexpected, unwelcome. eventually, three generations of paths will cross, secrets will be discovered, everyone'll have to address their choices. honestly, i don’t want to blah and blah about plot—i always spend way too much time on silly reviews, writing 20-page dissertations on minutiae that nobody cares about but meeeee before deleting all of it anyway and i need to stop being foolish with my time and learn to do things in miniaturized efficiency when i’m not getting paid. but i will say that this is a tremendous second novel after a really impressive debut and bennett writes beautifully about family and grief and identity and being deeply, unbearably lonely—the loneliness of the estranged twins, the self-othering loneliness isolating stella from her old life and in her new one, the loneliness of growing up dark in a colorstruck town etc etc. i'm doing it again so i'm gonna shut myself up now because i loved every little bit of this novel and we could be here all day if i don't put a stop to it now. *************************** The Mothers was good, this one is GOLD. review to come ASAP. ******************************* my SECOND goodreads-win of 2020!! this is the only good thing in the world right now. come to my blog!

4.5 stars The Vignes twins are identical but they couldn’t be more different in personality. This is the story of light-skinned black twins whose lives take very different paths. The twins grew up in the odd little fictional southern town of Mallard where the blacks found dark skin undesirable. The lighter they were, the better, and the dark-skinned blacks faced discrimination from the light-skinned ones. As young children, the twins endure a trauma when they see their father lynched by white men. This changes the trajectory of their lives. Eventually the girls strike out on their own. Stella chooses to break ties with her family, “pass over”, and live as a white. She marries a wealthy white man and has a white, blond-haired daughter, Kennedy. Desiree makes a bad choice in a husband but eventually returns home to her hometown with Jude, her very dark black daughter. I don’t want to ruin the story and give away too much, so I’ll keep this light on plot. What is it like for Desiree and Jude to live in a town that values light skin and discriminates against dark skin, when Jude is so very dark? How does this shape her? What is it like for Stella to live a lie, to live without relatives or childhood friends, without a history to share? Does her wealth and privilege bring contentment and happiness? She can never truly open up to anyone, not even her husband and daughter, for fear of exposing her true self. How does this shape her daughter Kennedy? What happens when a black family moves into Stella’s very white, very wealthy neighborhood? Their choices have far-reaching unintended consequences. Eventually, events transpire that threatens to destroy the life Stella has so carefully built. How she reacts and the effects on the daughters of Stella and Desiree comprise much of the second half of the book. I found the first half a slow build up but the second half I blew through in an afternoon. The only things that kept me from giving this a full 5 stars were a few too many coincidences moving the plot forward and awkward transitions between chapters and characters. But, the strengths in this moving novel overshadows these small criticisms. Powerful, thought-provoking, and profound, but told through such compelling, yet flawed, characters it doesn’t read like an “issue” book. The subplot of identity is handled with depth and sensitivity. Spanning decades, from the 1950s to the 1990s, this is an exploration of “passing”. I had not heard this term used before and read more here: https://www.npr.org/sections/codeswit... Is the vanishing half losing your twin or is it losing the half of yourself you choose to deny and leave behind when you pass? Perhaps it’s both. I love an introspective book that reveals the inner lives of characters. Days after finishing the book and I'm still thinking about these characters and the issues raised. Marialyce and I read this together and it inspired thoughtful, deep discussions. This would make a wonderful choice for a book club . *I received a free digital copy of this book via Edelweiss. All opinions are my own.

Finally, a follow-up to Bennett’s smashing debut The Mothers—and it’s worth the wait. Identical twins Desiree and Stella grew up in a town so small it doesn’t appear on maps. They’re closer than close, so Desiree is shocked when Stella vanishes one night after deciding to sacrifice her past—and her relationship with her family—in order to marry a white man, who doesn’t know she’s black. Desiree never expects to see her sister again. The twins grow up, make lives for themselves, and raise daughters—and it’s those daughters who bring the sisters together again. It’s a reunion Stella both longs for and fears, because she can’t reveal the truth without admitting her whole life is built on a lie. Bennett expertly weaves themes of family, race, identity, and belonging into one juicy, unputdownable novel spanning five turbulent decades.

This is such a beautiful, inspiring, unique book. It's a tale of the bond between two twins and how, even though they've formed entirely different lives for themselves, it stays strong. It's haunting, evocative, and simple - but it's so much more than its synopsis suggests. This is one of those rare and genius books where I can see relationships forming and cracking before my very eyes. The writing isn't pretentious or condescending. It's almost effortless, in a way. We follow Stella and Desiree Vignes from childhood to adulthood. They disappear from their home in Mallard, Louisiana at the same time - the vanishing twins. But in their efforts to make a new life for themselves, they stray far from each other. Stella passes as white and lives a suburban life while lying to her husband and daughter, Kennedy. You can sense the emptiness within her - this is what she wanted, and yet it's not what she imagined. Desiree marries and has a daughter, Jude. But she still yearns for Stella, the lost half of herself. We follow Jude and Kennedy as they meet each other and finally realize the story their mothers have been hiding this whole time. A story about a lost twin and a lie that started so small, but now threatens to crush them. The themes and diversity in The Vanishing Half are never forced. They're as natural as breathing; an integral part of each character. The colorism within the Black community was heartbreaking and eye-opening, the layers and complexities explored at a deeper level, and I was happy to see the trans representation. I would definitely recommend this book to everyone. It's beautiful and important and powerful. 4.5 stars

So well written and so interesting! I’ve never read anything by Britt Bennett but this won’t be my last. The story focuses on twin sisters, Desiree and Stella, and their daughters, Jude and Kennedy. The twins come from Mallard, Louisiana, where having light skin is greatly valued. The twins’ skin is light enough that Stella decides to “pass” as white and disappears from Desiree’s life in the late 1960s when they are in their early 20s. The story then moves back and forth in time and from the different characters’ perspectives. Bennett’s writing is lovely, making the read smooth and engaging. The structure of the story is original. And the story and characters kept me interested and curious from beginning to end. Can’t ask for anything better in a novel — especially at a time when I find it challenging to find novels that keep my attention. This was a buddy read with Angela and Diane — it made for interesting discussion and I suspect this one would be a great book club read. Thanks to the publisher and Edelweiss for an advance copy.

HOW have I fallen so far behind in my Goodreads reviews? Loved THE VANISHING HALF -- like most of the sentient United States. It's fantastic: wrenching and wise and I was constantly surprised. And, yes, it's timely as hell in its exploration of race in America-- but it's also timeless as hell, because it compels us to ask ourselves, "Who are we? What face do we show to the world."

Beth and I buddy read The Mothers and The Vanishing Half back-to-back. Both books are top notch, more than five star, literary fiction at its finest. We read The Mothers first, and what struck me most There is how tenderly Bennett draws her male characters. Her storytelling was impeccable and so emotional. With The Vanishing Half, she did all of that and then some because the story within TVH is more complex, containing more main characters and time periods. Her male characters are just as tenderly drawn as in The Mothers, as were the women. Desiree, Jude, Reese, and Early captured my heart in this novel and never let go. I lamented several times while reading these books that they are so perfectly written, everyone has to love them. I cannot imagine characters more richly drawn and writing more precise and evocative at the same time.

I re-read this book as part of a re-read of the Women's Prize shortlist having previously read it 13 months earlier just before the 2020 Booker Prize as I thought it might be longlisted (I read "Shuggie Bain" the same week and immediately realised it might win so at least I got 1 out of 2 predictions correct!). The book later became Goodreads Choice Awards Best Novel of 2020 and the NetGalley Book of 2020 My first read I had gone in assumed it was a "just" a book-club type book and was pleasantly surprised at some of the depth as well as the easy choices the author evaded. The fact the Booker judges then chose "Such a Fun Age" instead (or so it seemed) only retrospectively elevated it in my view by comparison. Second time I had higher expectations - judging it against a very strong Women's Prize shortlist of which it is easily the highest seller even in the UK (I say "even in the UK" as the book is very American I think) and so felt more critical of the book but overall still impressed. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- That was the thrill of youth, the idea that you could be anyone. That was what captured [Stella] in the charm shop, all those years ago. Then adulthood came, your choices solidifying, and you realize that everything you are had been set in motion years before. The rest was aftermath. So she understood why [Kennedy] was searching for a self, and she even blamed herself for it. Maybe something in the girl was unsettled, a small part of her realizing that life wasn’t right. As if she’d gotten older and started touching the trees, only to find they were all cardboard sets. The book opens in 1968, when one of a pair of identical twins returns to their home town of Mallard. (I am also an identical twin, born in 1968, our home village being dominated by a mallard pond) The twin sisters are Desiree and Stella Vignes, Mallard is a Louisiana town with something of a mythical nature (although based on a town remembered by the author’s mother). Mallard was founded in the mid 19th Century by the ex-slave son of a slaveowner, who himself marries a mulatto and decides to build somewhere for “men like him, who would never be accepted as white but refused to be treated like Negroes” and who imagines a town where successive generations are “like a cup of coffee steadily diluted with cream. A more perfect Negro. Each generation lighter than the one before.” Desiree and Stella are descended from the founder, by their mother: their father, son of a lower class family dies young like his three brothers – although in his case but a two stage lynching by a group of white men – the first witnessed by the twins as children (the second, fatal one, as he recovers in hospital). At sixteen in 1954, Desiree persuades Stella to escape with her to New Orleans but there their paths diverge – as Mallard town legend has it “the twins scattered, their lives splitting as evenly as the shared egg. Stella became white and Desiree married the darkest main she could find” – the use of the separate twin trope drawing further on mythology. Desiree trains as a fingerprint expert in Washington DC, meets a black man, has a child by him – Jude – and then when his beating of her becomes too much flees back to her hometown. There she is followed by a bounty hunter/detective hired by Jude’s father, who instead falls in love with her. Jude, struggling with acceptance given her dark colour (and the town’s policy) takes refuge in athletics and wins an athletic scholarship to UCLA where she meets, and eventually falls into a relationship with, Reece (who is transitioning) and friends with his group of part time drag queen friends. Stella, passes as white to get a job as a secretary, marries her boss and moves with him to a prosperous Los Angeles private estate, entirely suppressing her past, a past she worries will be exposed when a black actor and his wife move opposite (despite the best efforts of the residents). Her daughter Kennedy, drops out of school and becomes a theatre actress. An event whose improbability but not impossibility is discussed by Jude, now a statistics assistant at a college, with her students (a clever way to confront head on the coincidences which rather drive the plot), forces both generations to confront the lives (and lies) they have been living. The book itself function on one level as an examination of “passing”, of what it says about the absurdity but also the stubbornly pernicious operation of racial hierachies. The author captured this idea in an interview: What becomes really interesting about passing is that, on the one hand you have this character who is exposing the flimsiness of racial categories — because if you can perform whiteness then what does it mean to be white? If you can move between these categories because you decide that you will, what does it mean that we have systems that are built on reinforcing those categories? And so the passing character is really transgressive and maybe even kind of liberatory. But on the other hand, these characters who pass usually end up reinforcing the hierarchies that they are potentially destabilizing. When Stella becomes a white woman, she’s not attacking white supremacy. She actually ends up embodying white supremacy in order to maintain her role as a white woman. The tension within passing stories is between this idea of destabilizing race and then reaffirming race at the same time. And the behavior of Stella and her respectable white neighbours (simultaneously able to claim sympathy for the ideas of Martin Luther King, and shocked at his killing, while ostracizing and then driving out the soap star’s family) – I think picks up on the author’s well known essay: https://jezebel.com/i-dont-know-what-... - and makes this a book which is about white privilege as much as anything. Wider though this is a book which explores identity: what it means to hide yourself and your past, how can you reinvent yourself, what does it mean to become something new. This process is much wider than Stella – although she is key to it. With: Desiree trained in identifying people by their fingerprints (which of course do vary between identical twins); her lover a bounty hunter who specialises in hunting down those who hide from their past deeds; two actors – and frequent reflection on what it means to put on a persona on stage, or as a famous TV/soap star to be seen by others as effectively the character you play; “respectable” accountants and teachers acting as drag queens; a trans man and his physical journey of transition; a rebellious teenager playing around with different music/fashion identities; a group of wives of successful husbands trying to portray the best possible impression of their lives; an estate agent changing a property to match the potential buyers and inviting them to imagine the life they may live there .... and so on – these ideas return time and time again. Returning to the resonance between me and the book, which features identical twins, their daughters and their education - my own identical twin’s daughter’s English teacher wrote in the Guardian a review which I think captures my thoughts on this aspect very well: Some might find this repeated allusion to the theme of pretence grinding or overly emphatic. For me, it mirrored the daily self-policing and continuous effort required in order for Stella to maintain her facade And in addition to these themes – this is a well written book. The stand-out central mythological conceits (the town of Mallard, the twins and their different choices) are complemented by a good use of language, natural sounding dialogue, a wide-ranging plot, a host of memorable characters and a repeated refusal to take the easy option of giving the book a redemptive ending or a tidily wrapped up resolution. Recommended.

One of the best books of 2020 hands down. The Vanishing Half reminds me of The Guest Book in how well written and quotable it is. It was a very similar reading experience. I was so moved by this story and just sat in awe the entire time I read it. I think I said in my Instagram review that I was put in a zombie trance from the very first page and that is a fact. I was fortunate enough to have won a copy of this from an Instagram contest and be included in a discussion and Q&A with other readers as well as the author. I found out about this event 4 days before it was to happen and I hadn't even started the book. (Crap!) I had no idea how I was going to get through a 350+ page book in that short of time (lately, reading time has been at a bare minimum), but luckily I was able to get it done in time and I pretty much only took a break to work and sleep. I was taking pictures of whole passages so I could write them down in my journal. It also had me thinking a lot. Any book that causes me to look internally at myself or think about a perspective different from my own and learn new things...I'm sold. Well, now I feel it is my obligation to sell this book to you. You've seen the summary, but what the summary doesn't include is the journey you're about to go on. The story is so much more than a story of twin sisters. It's about every day people. It's about racial identity, gender identity, socioeconomic identity and so much more. Is your identity something that your appearance dictates? Or do we consciously evolve based on our surroundings? Is it something that we are born knowing? The questions are endless. This book could have easily become preachy. It could have been a book that you could mentally check a box for each hot button issue it discussed. Well, not this book. Not this piece of literary genius. To me, it did what I had hoped Such a Fun Age would do. It was a freaking master class that dared you to look in the mirror, stare at your reflection and strip the layers away of who you are. The other thing I sit in awe of is how all the stories are woven together. Each part jumps in time and begins with a zoomed out approach of something that has nothing to do with what you just finished reading. Some general history of the town, or a house, or a movement and then bam. You're right back with the story and you get that holistic approach to bring even more context to the story. It really was just a spectacular read. I urge you to consider reading it and I hope if you do, we can discuss it! Thanks so much to Riverhead Books and Brit Bennett for the advanced review copy in exchange for an honest review. Review Date: 05/22/2020 Publication Date: 06/02/2020

Updated September 25, 2020 I read this book and felt that it would be an amazing pick for BookOfCinz Book Club and I was right! A masterpiece that deserves to be read....at least twice! In Brit Bennett's second novel The Vanishing Half we meet Stella and Desiree, twin sisters growing up in a black Southern community during the 1960s. Desiree longs to leave the very close knit community-at 16, this is her biggest dream but she will not leave without her sister Stella. When Stella final agrees to take the plunge and run away, they do so and both sisters end up in New Orleans looking to start from scratch and start a new life. Things are harder then they thought, will little to no money one sister is forced to take a risk and the other is left wondering how things changed so fast. In the end, one sister made a life passing for white and the other sister after a hard relationship returns to the community with her daughter in tow. A generational tale that spans forty years and converges when the twin sister daughters', through fate meet. Brit Bennett took her time to write such an intoxicating book. I could not stay away from the book and I found myself walking around with it just to get brief moments to read. I wanted to inhale the book but I also wanted to never end- it was THAT good. The storyline was strong and convincing you felt like you knew the characters and you become so attached to them and their lives. The pacing kept you hooked and I had to remind myself to exhale because I just had to know exactly what happened. I was a little nervous because of how the structure was- many different voices and POVs but each was so unique and convincing and I could not get enough of it. I know we are only in February 2020 but this is already a favorite for me. I want everyone to read this book so we can gush about it together!

| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | | “At first, passing seemed so simple, she couldn’t understand why her parents hadn’t done it. But she was young then. She hadn’t realized how long it takes to become somebody else, or how lonely it can be living in a world not meant for you.” Brit Bennett's second novel is a tour de force. The Vanishing Half gripped me from the very pages as I was instantly transfixed by Bennett's subtle yet penetrating prose. Bennett is a brilliant storyteller. Not one word is wasted, or so it seemed as I had the distinct impression that her writing was simultaneously concise and striking. Bennett's prose effortlessly moves from present to past, as her story traverses decades (from the 60s to the 80s) and transports us from the small-town of Mallard in Louisiana to LA or New York. Bennett maps the lives of many characters, who inhabit markedly different worlds, focusing in particular on the lives and voices of the Vignes women. “The Vignes twins left without saying good-bye, so like any sudden disappearance, their departure became loaded with meaning.” Most people regard twins, particularly identical twins, as a source of fascination. Bennett, fully aware of this, adds a layer of depth to the mystique of twins by making the Vignes embark on drastically different paths. After witnessing their father’s lynching at the hands of white men, the Vignes have little love for their small-town, and aged sixteen they flee to New Orleans. Things don’t go as planned however and the twins become irrevocably separated. While Stella returns with a daughter to the hometown she so longed to escape, Desiree passes for white and marries a wealthy white man. In spite of this, their bond keeps them tethered together and even as the years go by the Vignes twins struggle to reconcile themselves with the loneliness of their ‘twinless’ existence. Their respective daughters share little in common. While Stella’s daughter Kennedy enjoys a life of privilege, Desiree’s daughter Jude is discriminated for her dark skin by her peers and the adults of her community. “The hardest part about becoming someone else was deciding to. The rest was only logistics.” The Vanishing Half tells a heartbreaking and relevant intergenerational tale. While Bennett does not condone the decisions and behaviour of certain characters, mainly Jude and Kennedy, she never condemns them either, revealing instead how viciously deep-rooted racism is. While Stella can enjoy the freedoms that come with being white (and wealthy), her fear of discovery causes her to adopt racist attitudes towards other people of colour and to inculcate racist beliefs in her own daughter. Like her mother at her age, Jude is eager to leave the confines of the ‘narrow-minded’ Mallard. In college she tries to overcome the insecurities and self-hatred instilled in her after years of being othered. While the Vignes twins and their daughters may occupy opposing realities, they grapple with similar questions of identity. Stella, Desiree, and Jude, who are alienated by their society because of their race and class, long to belong. Yet, they often sabotage their own attempts to connect to others (Stella’s attempt to bond with her black neighbour ends catastrophically). “It scared her, how badly she wanted to belong to somebody.” Bennett navigates the way in which race and class shape the way in which we are seen and treated by others. Her characters are vividly drawn, and it is their contradictory feelings and desires that make them all the more real. Bennett’s narrative doesn’t favor any one perspective, and in doing so allows her readers to form their own opinion of a character’s actions. The relationships the characters have with each other are fraught. While most Stella, Desiree, Jude, and even Kennedy to a certain extent, all desire to fit in or to form meaningful connections, miscommunications abound as they are unwilling or unable to expose themselves to others. “He was always doing that, trying to coax her further outside herself. But she felt safe like this, locked away.” In Bennett's novel love isn't neat or easy and identity is an evolving process, her observations on race, class, and family are truly compelling. She touches upon a myriad of topics (poverty, abuse, trauma, unknowability) with thoughtfulness and clarity. To white people like me (I grew up in a really homogenous, racist, and xenophobic country) the America Bennett depicts is both disturbing and illuminating. While there are many horrific scenes in The Vanishing Half, I encourage readers to read this novel. Characters such as Reese, Jude, and Early alone are worth knowing. Interspersed in the various narratives there are tender moments of genuine affection and understanding (Jude's relationship to her mother and Reese are truly heart-rendering). “You could live a life this way, split. As long as you knew who was in charge.” Read more reviews on my blog / / / View all my reviews on Goodreads

Twin sisters Stella and Desiree Vignes grow up in Mallard, Louisiana, the great, great, granddaughters of the ex-slave founder of the settlement. Mallard is unique in that those that live there pride themselves on the lightness of their skin - they are ‘beige’ and do not marry ‘dark’. However, despite this the girls can expect to do the same job as their Mama, to clean the houses of white folly, their lives are mapped out as domestic workers. The twins have other ideas. One night in 1954 they slip away and settle in New Orleans where their lives follow very different trajectories. Fourteen years later in 1968, Desiree returns to Mallard with her young daughter Jade who is so dark she is ‘blue black’. Stella meanwhile escapes into a white world while her twin returns to her roots. The story is told through forty years of change from the perspectives of the twins and their daughters Jade and Kennedy. This is a well written and powerful story although not always a comfortable read especially with the racism that the characters endure. I think it’s fair to say that both sisters are damaged by what happened to their father. The characters are well developed, their feelings echo across the pages and resonate especially the isolation and loneliness particularly of Stella. It captures the historical period well, placing the sisters stories and experiences into the context of the times. The book deals with many issues especially race, class and identity. This applies to Stella as she tries to eradicate the past and reinvent herself but other characters seek to find their true individuality and sexuality. This is a slow burner which is superbly told and a book which will linger in the memory. Highly recommended.

I've always been fascinated by stories of self-reinvention: the way someone can simply walk out of their life and create an entirely new one somewhere else. Maybe I'm so drawn to these tales because they so dramatically and dynamically consider the meaning of identity. Which aspects of the self are fixed and which are fluid? Is personality a performance or an expression of who we inherently are as human beings? Can we change who we are through sheer willpower and if we lie about who we are enough does it eventually become the truth? These are questions at the heart of Brit Bennett's new novel “The Vanishing Half” whose utterly compelling story considers many different types of dualities and personal transformations. It's also a heartrending tale of a family split apart by inherited notions of classism and racism. Twins Stella and Desiree Vignes ran away from their small Louisiana town of Mallard in the 1950s when they were teenagers and went on to live very different lives. Mallard isn't a large enough place to be included on any map. Its citizens are primarily made up of light-skinned African Americans who still suffer the brutal effects of racism while simultaneously looking down at darker-skinned black people. This is the sort of community so powerfully described in Margo Jefferson's memoir “Negroland”. Over ten years after abruptly leaving the town, Desiree returns with a daughter who has very dark skin and the locals are appalled by what they consider to be her diminution of status because they believe “Once you mixed with common blood, you were common forever.” Read my full review of The Vanishing Half by Brit Bennett on LonesomeReader

4.5/5. The hype is real and the hype is justified. Even though everybody seemed to have already read and loved this book, I was a little hesitant to pick it up because I wasn't wholly convinced by Bennett's previous novel The Mothers. I didn't actively dislike it, it just felt like a book I had read before and now, two years after reading it, I can't remember much about it. The Vanishing Half, however, will stick with me for a long time. I feel like there's nothing left to be said about this book that hasn't been said before , so I'm just going to say that if you want a family story that'll wholly captivate you, that'll make you feel anger, compassion, sadness, - all of the feelings! -, then read this book.

This is one of my favorite novels of 2020. It most certainly will be on the “Best of 2020” lists. “The Vanishing Half” explores race identification, bigotry, personal choices, white privilege, gender, and racial passing. Author Brit Bennett scores another win after her debut novel, “The Mothers”. Identical twins Stella and Desiree were born in a fictious Louisiana town that was their great-great-great grandfather’s dream. It was an exclusive place for only the lightest of skin black people. Prejudices ran deep in their town and the twins were at the top of the hierarchy because they were almost white. Yet, at a tender age they witnessed their light-skinned father lynched. They were dirt poor. At age 16 they ran away to New Orleans to try their luck in the city. It was Stella who learned she could pass as a white girl in the city. Without telling her sister, she identifies as white and begins a new life. Meanwhile Desiree moves to Washington DC and marries a very dark black man. One twin becomes white, the other becomes entrenched in her black world. Both women have a daughter. Desiree moves back to her hometown when her husband starts beating her. Her daughter, Jude, suffers in the town as she is “blue-black” the most despised color of the town. The story switches in time and character. It follows not only the twins, but their daughters. Where Bennett shines is in her writing of Stella’s angst of staying white, of not being discovered as a fraud. Stella marries an upwardly mobile white man and enjoys a financially easy life. Her social life if fraught with unease as it’s the 1960’s through the 1990’s in which her social class is wary or downright hostile of black people. She struggles with her moral compass in racial bigotry. The novel includes the daughters of the twins; each daughter having significantly different lives. Through chance Desiree’s daughter sees her own mother’s doppelganger and realizes it must be her aunt. It is here that Bennett explores daughter devotion, family lies and connection. Bennett uses Stella to ask if it’s better passing as white; what are the emotional consequences of becoming something you are not. Also, how does the emotional weight of that secret affect your most cherished person: your daughter. Through Bennett’s skill, this story is a page-turner, keeping the reader engaged in what she will think of next. I highly recommend it!

I was just going into an in-depth analysis of this book with a work friend, so I decided it was time to write my review. Normally not a fan of historical fiction, an online group I am a part of suggested this title, and I am very glad they did. Initially, I accessed an online resource from America while waiting for my copy to arrive through my public library; this is certainly a popular title. I often need to be pushed outside of my comfort zone to read new things and this is a great example of that. I am aware of my cultural naivety when I review books like this (I feel like I am not entitled to put forward real opinions about living as a black person, or maybe I just feel like I don’t want to say the wrong thing). Twin sisters born in the 1950’s, in a strange southern town that of course is very much divided by race. The girls are an interesting topic of interest in this town, one fair skinned and one dark. Cloistered by this town with limited opportunities they have fallen into the common assumption of cleaners for the wealthy white, Stella and Desiree flee their town at 16 years of age. As very small children witnessed their share of grief and inequity, most tragically the brutal lethal beating of their beloved father by white men. They leave behind their beloved mum and grandmother to mourn their loss. Stella was not to return, Desiree returned with Jude, a strikingly dark beautiful young girl both fleeing from an abusive husband. Inseparable and almost one child made from two, the girls part ways with one living completely in a way that discards her identity: living and passing as a white woman. Both women living such different lives that will eventually be forced together again by their own children, again one as dark and opposite as fair and blonde as could be. It was a shock to read about Stella giving up on absolutely everything that was, and the continual outward lie. She had an immense lifetime of internal grief; we very easily saw the lie and disconnection of family were traumatic; one that never left her internally. Fractured entirely from her heritage, this distinction showed her daughter also fractured from any maternal bond forming. Marrying white and extremely wealthy, never to reveal the truth of heritage. Opposite to this was the lovely Jude, close with her mother and building a fulfilling life. We saw very intimately each character’s perspective, and dreams hoped for and mostly lost. The ending befitting the journey of each one, with at least part a new generation paving the way to a more fulfilling and at ease life. I loved this book, I felt shocked while watching them leave each other and join more than once. The ending was a jolt and left me thinking, it was one I have thought about more than other reads of late, which was a good thing. It made me wistful for Desiree, hopeful for Jude, and simply sad for Stella and her daughter.

What a well written, beautiful story of the fictional lives of the Vignes twin girls and their decidedly different life paths, I loved this read! The story led me along touching on so many issues of judgement as experienced with personal change and explored both suppresion of spirit and expression of it, sometimes occurring simultaneously and sometimes as a result of need to survive. Themes of protection of self and allowing people to see you and even allowing self introspection were explored. My favourite part was that this novel just told its story without telling me what to think or feel, it just let me experience, and I loved being immersed in it to the last page. Stella and Desiree are identical twins and after leaving their home town at 16, end up living completely separate lives, Stella passing as white and Desiree losing any knowledge of her sister’s life. I could go on and on about all of the themes touched on and explored in this book but I would just recommend that you explore them yourselves, as Brit Bennett writes to them so well, the exploration of family and the bonds between sisters, mothers, daughters and cousins and how individual that experience is and how perspective and fear can fuel and change so many choices. Race, gender, class... you will feel the weight of those base themes combined with every life choice made throughout the book. It is at once so simply stated and at the same time so heavy. I loved that she even touched on the statistical chances of some of the events in the book by saying that even human life defies so many statistical probabilities that you never know what forces are at work bringing things to their actuality. Great characters, great story, great themes, so well written and even with the hype was so much more than I expected it to be. These characters are still with me and I +++ recommend that you dont let this vanish off your reading list🌗

I was not a fan of The Mothers so I was a little hesitant about picking up The Vanishing Half, but y'all? Y'ALL! It is everything. E-v-e-r-y-THING! Well developed characters, well thought out story lines, unpredictable. There's nothing I didn't love about this book. Brit Bennett knocked it out of the ballpark with this one. And a movie? Please, please, please let Oprah, Ava DuVernay, somebody option this because yes!

I have no idea why I didn’t read this sooner, it was absolutely gorgeous and so deserving of all the praise that surrounds it. The way that the female narratives were woven together through the years felt like a rich, meaningful tapestry of family history. It has everything - a captivating storyline with meaning and weight, complex flawed characters with real motivations, wholesome romances and relationships, all within thoughtful, beautiful prose. I was absolutely absorbed by this story from the very beginning and found it to be such a fulfilling, enjoyable read. I also particularly enjoyed thinking about how the title could apply in so many different ways to the different characters (miss u GCSE English). Really loved this one.

I was visiting family while trying to read this, so I kept getting interrupted and had to restart the book and reread many chapters afterward over and over again. I’m glad I persisted, though I think I would’ve enjoyed it more if I’d had more continuity. First, I LOVED the inclusion of my alma mater Mount Holyoke College and its founder Mary Lyon. Turns out the author is also an alumna. It’s a beautiful liberal arts college networked with four others: Smith College, Amherst College, Hampshire College, and University of Massachusetts. Mount Holyoke and Smith were the first two colleges for women in the US and part of the Seven Sisters (partnered with the Ivies before colleges became coeducational). Highly recommend them to any female (including trans)/nonbinary high school seniors. I was wholly satisfied with the ending in book 3 and had considered the fourth book to be a bonus. Looks like we are in for a longer ride, given this fifth one ended with a cliffhanger. There are too many characters for my liking. It’s starting to feel like I’m reading a Marvel movie, but nonetheless, the stories are generally strong, and I’m looking forward to the battle between Diana and Satu. Hoping book 6 has more love for Mount Holyoke in it too 💕 This should be a 4, but my love for Mount Holyoke bumps it up to a 5, which I write as I’m wearing one of my Mount Holyoke baseball caps.

Deborah Harkness is BACK and stronger than ever after her battle with ovarian cancer!! The Black Bird Oracle is book 5 in the All Souls series and I can not put into words how much I loved getting to dive back into the magical world of the Bishop-de Clermont family as Diana discovers her very large Proctor family and the support they offer as the Congregation is looking to examine Becca and Pip, and the magical crossroads she finds herself facing. 𝗥𝗲𝗮𝗱 𝗶𝗳 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗹𝗶𝗸𝗲: Magic Strong family bonds Suspense Tension Hidden Secrets Diverse Characters Atmosphere that sucks you in Dark Pasts History 𝗛𝗼𝘄 𝘄𝗮𝘀 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗽𝗮𝗰𝗲? Slow/steady 𝗗𝗼 𝗜 𝗻𝗲𝗲𝗱 𝘁𝗼 𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝘀 𝘀𝗲𝗿𝗶𝗲𝘀 𝗶𝗻 𝗼𝗿𝗱𝗲𝗿? If you have not picked up Discovery of Witches (first book the series) you absolutely have to! NOW! It is a world you will become sucked into and never want to leave. Plus, this is one of those series where you have to read all the previous books in order to fully understand everything that is going on. 𝗗𝗼 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗿𝗲𝗰𝗼𝗺𝗺𝗲𝗻𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝘀 𝗯𝗼𝗼𝗸? I just love the way she can weave together atmosphere, family, and magic to create such a compelling story. A must read for anyone who has enjoyed falling into this magical world full of creatures, drama, adventure, romance, secrets and basically everything you look for in a binge worthy book! Thank you PRH Audio and Ballantine for the gifted copy in exchange for my honest opinion.

Amazing!!! Book 5 of this All Souls series and I’m here for it! I was excited to read this because I love the books, audiobooks and Tv series. This one draws the reader to Diana’s father Stephen Proctor side of the family. I don’t want to say too much, TutTut and Granny Dorkus are added to my favorite characters in this series. A lot of history and characters in this one and the ending left me with so many questions in my reading journal. This world is so amazingly crafted. The author has woven such a beautiful, tale to include so many creatures and lore. I definitely recommend reading the whole series or if you like audiobooks the narrator Jennifer Ikeda does an amazing job.

I’m so happy to be back in the world of All Souls, and could not be more thrilled with book 5! The first trilogy is so strong, and I thought nothing else could be revealed/surpirse me, but this book was such a page turner with all the uncovered secrets and family history in this book. Deborah Harkness somehow managed to bring more magic into the series which is what I am here for, along with our favorite Bishop-Clairmont family scion! It was so great to see more of the twins and even more Matthew and Diana! Especially Diana, who I was a little worried would have been regulated to the background. NO WAY! She’s back and stronger than ever, and I loved her exploring the high magicks, which we got a small taste of in Book of Life. I’m looking forward to future books and a reread of The Black Bird Oracle.

It was so lovely getting back into Diana and Mathew's words again. This book was brilliant and I couldn't put it down. There is more to come, thank goodness as the story isn't finished. Can't wait.

Omg! This is not what I expected! The first three books were amazing and drew me in and held me in place. The fourth book, however, was lacking, so I wasn't sure what to expect from this one. But it is one hundred percent in line with the first three. If you have seen this show, it doesn't hold a candle to the books. So glad that I read this book right away when it came out. It's back to Salem with Diana and the twins in a different line of adventure, if you can call it that lol. This one is focused on the lines of magic. Satu has big plans for the briteborn twins. The next book can't come soon enough.

Couldn't put it down. Another great book from Deborah Harkness. This one gives more insite to Diane's dads side of the family. Absolutely loved it.

The James Patterson's novels are like pizza - even if they aren't great, they're still pretty good.

I loved this book! Such an easy read that you don’t want to put down. I loved the short chapters that correspond with the pace and dual narration. And although it is an easy read, there is still elevated vocabulary and realistic writing. I also loved the ending—just another day at work complete. I appreciate my student who provided the suggestion and let me borrow her copy.

Of the various James Patterson series I’ve read, this is definitely my favorite. It has just the right level of snarkiness as well as descriptive violence. Throw in the crazy personal life of Detective Michael Bennett and it’s a winner just about every time. But definitely read the books in order to get the most out of them.

Very good story. I can not say I have read any stories on Detective Bennett before this one, but I will now. I like Patterson's books because they hold my attention and keep me awake. Let's just say reading is not a passion and if the book is slow it will put me out. Recommended this one.

Wow! This book kept me on my toes! Exciting and a fast read!

Another great book in the Michael Bennett series from James Patterson!!

another winner by Patterson. His Alex Cross and Michael Bennett series are by far his best books!

Another great one for Michael Bennett. I love this series so much. I can't wait to see what's next

It has been a while since I read a Michael Bennett book. It was great to be reintroduced to the characters.

another great micheal bennet book i so enjoy this character and his mish mashed family james patterson never disappoints

Have been waiting for this book for months. It did not disappoint! Love this series!

I thought the book was well written and entertaining. I liked the book, but have not read a James Patterson book that I haven't like yet. I did receive an early release copy as a Goodreads Giveaway.

The Michael Bennett books always a page turner.

Crime fiction. That’s what Billy Summers is. Let’s get that out of the way from the outset so Uncle Stevie’s Constant Readers can prepare themselves accordingly and the “I’ve never read Stephen King!” people can open their minds to finally giving him a try. And I do hope they will, because Billy Summers is a damn fine book by any measure. Many are saying its his best in years, and I have to agree with them. It’s a non-horror jewel in King’s crown that could possibly be mistaken for a novel by an author like S.A. Cosby or maybe even Dennis Lehane. No horror, no ghosts. (Well, unless you count the ghosts of King’s canon that float through the story in the form of delightfully placed Easter eggs. I see you, clown in the backseat! I adore you, Overlook Hotel hedge maze!) While Billy Summers the book comes close to perfection, Billy Summers the character is imperfectly perfect. He’s an Iraq war sniper who puts his post-battle skills to use as a hitman for hire. But he’s a hitter with a heart of gold, because he only takes jobs to take out “bad people.” (Yes, it’s a little “Barry” meets “Dexter.”) The first part of the novel meanders through the set up of his character and his “final job,” and then at the midway point it takes off in a direction I never saw coming. And that direction is in the form of a relationship between two characters I’ll remember for a long time. Billy Summers also features the book-within-a-book device, because Billy is writing a memoir about his childhood and war experiences. Readers get even more context to his motivations through those sections. Now, there is violence. There are very graphically described sexual assaults. There is a lot of anti-Trump sentiment. BUT, there is a beautiful ending. King has finally landed the plane on the runway of repletion. This one did indeed leave me satisfied from start to finish. Thanks, Uncle Stevie. Blog: https://www.confettibookshelf.com/

Stephen King's Billy Summers is a masterful blend of suspense, character study, and moral contemplation. The story follows a hitman, Billy Summers, who is about to retire but takes one final job that goes deeper than expected. King's portrayal of Billy is nuanced, presenting him as a man grappling with his own sense of justice and morality. The novel skillfully balances the tense world of crime with heartfelt moments of introspection, as Billy not only confronts his past but also his place in a world that seems to offer no redemption. King fans will appreciate the intricate plotting, slow-burn suspense, and rich character development that make this novel an unforgettable experience. A powerful meditation on good and evil, Billy Summers showcases King's remarkable ability to tell stories that haunt you long after you finish the last page. —————- Each time I start a new KING novel, I feel like a child open up new Christmas gift box! Yes,I'm feeling like celebrating Christmas in August! Yaaaaayyy to me!

Wow. This might be Stephen King’s best yet. The ending is perfection. Releases August 3 - get your preorders in! —J.D. Barker, NY Times bestselling author of A Caller's Game

Frankly, I’m always happy to read a Stephen King. It’s as easy as that. He never disappoints. Case in point: Billy Summers could easily have turned out to be a Dexter-like romp or a thriller in the vein of all hit men. It could have turned out a Stockholm-type romance spiced up with a little revenge and moral outrage to get all those types of juices flowing, too. And make no mistake, Billy Summers DOES have those elements. But King is a king of subversion when it comes to plots. He welcomes us down those long dark paths, leading us to believe that that monster WILL be down one, but the real monster isn’t there. It’s actually in your back pocket all along. And I loved it from start to finish. Intelligence, the burden and release of art in a most unexpectedly delightful way, and real connection. I was invested from start to finish not only for the initial hook but MORE for all the wonderful extras. King rocks.

For many readers the most awaiting book of the year. It made me very curious when picking it up. In the first part you'll find King meeting up with Jack Reacher. Billy Summers, a hitman and former sniper, takes over his last job. He assumes the fake identity as a writer (!) and soon troubles begin. He doesn't trust his client, then there is a young girl named Alice, an old buddy of his, Bucky, and a story full of revenge and getting owed money. Oh, where's the horror? As a true King fan you can easily guess what memories of the past lie hidden in Colorado (I don't give any spoilers). But that part was told in a brilliant way. At the end of the story you'll even find two endings... This was a great King novel. We have a modern war (Irak, seen from Billy's perspective), a strong female character (Alice) and some fine crime story with a shot of horror rolling along. The characters were great, the setting unusual, very entertaining, this will be a great movie in near future, I'm sure about it. Couldn't put the book down. Probably his most unusual book so far. Liked it and can highly recommend reading it.

4.5 stars.. but could be 5. Gonna sit on it. But wow, this one really got its hooks into me! Very emotionally invested!

Billy Summers is not an all-out horror story from King, it’s about an assassination and has a side-story about the Iraq war. The most horrifying thing here is the evil actions of men. You’re left hoping that the more vile characters here get their just desserts… It took me around 200 pages to properly get into it, when the character of Alice was introduced is when the story really picks up the pace for me. It’s as though the spark really comes back into King’s writing at this turning point and it makes me nostalgic. From then on, it’s classic King style at his best. Although Chapter 10, when the hit takes place, is also really good and fast-paced. Of course there are some Trump jabs thrown in throughout and they work well. The way Billy and Alice bond by him helping her through panic attacks (he clearly has struggled with some PTSD from the war) by singing the nursery rhyme Teddy Bear’s Picnic is surprisingly sweet. He had to use this tactic to help his comrades out at war too. After what happens to Alice, she is really going to have a hard time coming to terms with that and Billy senses that. The duo work really well, and I like the interactions between Bucky and Alice as well. Can we take a minute to (ambiguously) discuss THAT ending please !?! My jaw was on the floor, honestly you are best going into this one as blind as possible, PLEASE try to avoid spoilers for the ending. In fact, I was pretty captivated by the last 30 or so pages. In my opinion, they were damn near perfection. Solidified me rating this higher than a 4, even if I did find the start a tad slow. It’s made me want to check out even more of King’s crime-based novels as this one is so well done. ”When I was writing, I forgot to be sad. I forgot to worry about the future. I forgot where I was. I didn’t know that could happen.” 4.5 Stars, rounded up to a 5. tw:// the aftermath of a horrific assault on Alice

6 stars actually ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️

If you love a good suspenseful, thriller kind of a book, look no further than Billy Summers by the legendary Stephen King! There is a bit of everything in this book as once you start, you’ll enjoy the ride King will bring you on from beginning all the way to the end. I won’t ruin anything for you but this is a book you won’t be able to put down. You’ll truly want to see what ultimately happens once you’re finished reading, featuring all the characters you’ll encounter as you progress. There are a lot of great books that have come out so far in 2021 and Billy Summers is right up there with the best of them. Yeah, it’s not a true horror classic by King but it’s a compelling crime story with characters you will grow to immediately connect with. Especially if you also love books involving the military, mafia, assassinations, and the life of a former Marines sniper with a heart of gold. Billy Summers is 5/5 stars in my book and is something I’d recommend to anyone that’s looking for a great book to jump into that tells an original story that touches upon doing the right thing in a world filled with bad people. King does yet another phenomenal job of building up these characters, places, and delivers a fantastic crime novel you’ll never forget.

Dear Mr. King, I hate you for breaking my heart. Again. Sincerely, A Very Distraught Reader In this brand new novel by one of THE best writers of our time, we follow a gun for hire, Billy Summers, as he is doing the fabled "one last job". Naturally, as all those stories go, this goes wrong. And when it rains, it fucking pours. Billy is a USMC veteran with a code: he only kills bad people. Has to do with his childhood which the reader uncovers together with certain select memories from Billy's time in the Corps over the course of this book. But it's not just that last job that goes south (not really a spoiler: he is betrayed), it's what exactly goes wrong and how that makes him meet certain people as well as the whole fucking road right to the end that is ... daunting. Sure, it's fast-paced, it's clever, it's full of tropes that Mr. King once again toys with like a sardonic child before twisting them to suit his own needs. However, it's also heart-breaking. Because Billy is THE guy. The kind of person that makes you feel as if you were important, as if you mattered and as if all could be well in the end - and he's the guy who will do whatever it takes to make sure it will be. I honestly LOVED how the author "fooled" everyone in the beginning about (view spoiler). I mean, I suspected it was a ruse but you never know with the King. However, I was also hoping right down to the last sentence of the book that (view spoiler). Foolish, I know, but I couldn't help myself. So this is a novel about a contract killer who does what he is paid for, then (view spoiler), goes on the run, hides, things go wrong and he has to find his way out of the shit. But it is so much more than that, too! It's about how most things are connected, it's about the therapy that is writing, it's about finding yourself, it's about human connections, and definitely about how the right thing isn't always the pacifist thing to do. Just think of Alice's (view spoiler) and what Billy did - it was justice, pure and simple. How the "good" people usually aren't good at all. The book made me chuckle and laugh out loud, it had me cheer, it had me cackling with very dark Schadenfreude of which I am NOT ashamed, it had me tear my hair out (literally, unfortuantely, ouch) and cry like a little girl. In short, it's one of the best books King has written and it's now in my top 3 SK books! P.S.: Nice reference to (view spoiler) P.P.S.: FUCKING MARGE!

Due to circumstances beyond my control, it took me almost the entire month of August to read this. I won't go into why here, but they know who they are.... I thought this was an excellent book! King's character building is just as superior as it was 40 years ago. The story does start off a little slow but I found I didn't really mind it. I enjoyed taking the time getting to know the characters and understanding the situation. Once things start to come together, it's hard to put down. There are some really "edge-of-your-seat" parts in the story and they were so much fun to read! Once we got introduced to Alice, the relationship between her and Billy was really all that mattered, to me at least. I absolutely love when other King books get referenced and it happened a few times here. The climax was pretty suspenseful and for a little while, I wasn't exactly sure how things would turn out. The ending...for better or for worse, King just kills me sometimes with these endings. Overall, this was a very enjoyable read. The imagery was appealing and the storytelling was enchanting.

A hit man making his last hit? In the hands of Stephen King? I was all in from the very beginning. And while this is a novel about a veteran with deep scars -- the internal ones far worse than the external wounds -- whose new career is a sharpshooter for hire, it's also a story about stories: the novel within the novel (and the surprise at the end of both) really does ask us to ponder the role that narrative plays in all of our lives.

I fucking BAWLED, bro. I am shattered. I love you, SK. I am not okay. Long live the King.

Fantastic narrative with complex and likeable characters. I loved the unexpected tie in with The Shining.

2024 Reread: Well, well, well. This is why I love rereading King. Though Billy Summers released only three years ago, this felt like a new reading experience altogether. I was able to totally lose myself in this story in a way I couldn’t in 2021. In my original review I gave the first 200 pages 3.5 stars, but now I give those pages a full 5 stars as well. Enjoyable from top to bottom. Maybe because I knew how it all ended, I could take my time and enjoy myself from the start. 2021 Review: 4.5 stars rounded up! 3.5 stars for the first 200 pages or so. 5+ stars for the final 300 pages. I will try my best to remain spoiler-free! I don’t think I’ve ever felt SO conflicted while reading a Stephen King book. When Billy Summers was announced I wasn’t interested in the concept; the cover didn’t even grab me. But hey, it’s King. And I’m actually a defender of modern King: The Outsider is a bloody awesome horror/crime novel, and If It Bleeds is a phenomenal novella collection. Your mileage may vary, of course. I tried going into this with an open mind, but I did struggle for the first 40 or so pages . . . the writing felt basic, the plot weak. Then it would pick up for 60 or 70 pages, then the pace would flag again. Or King would get tripped up in modern dialogue or excessive Trump references (so many Trump references!). Billy hunkering down in a middle-class neighborhood and trying to blend in with his neighbors felt like what King did in 11/22/63 with Jake Epping trying to blend into the past, only without as much heart or depth. And can we just talk about how cornball some of the scenes featuring Billy with his neighbors are? Nothing here is actively bad, just . . . schmaltzy. Throw in a few horrid comments from Billy about a minor gay character who works in the office building from which he’ll do the hit, and I was ready to DNF. But I pushed through. There were sprinklings of good stuff here and there, and I like King in crime-suspense mode. Hence the 3.5 stars. Okay, then a certain character is introduced, and it’s like Billy Summers —the novel and the man—opens up completely and King is writing with his old magic and I couldn’t put it down till I was done and the ending nearly had me in tears and holy fuck is this my favorite King novel since Revival? Maybe, maybe. The last 2/3 or so is not only engaging and heartfelt and suspenseful and big FUN, but it clarifies/remedies some of my problems from the first 200 pages, mostly the fact that I felt I couldn’t “read” Billy as a nuanced character for so long, I couldn’t get a feel for him, until he had someone to play off of. Billy and Alice is one of my favorite duos in all of King’s oeuvre. The overall result of the second half is the equivalent of King repairing his failing plane mid-flight; I didn’t think he could do it, but he did—and how. And I must say I just love the themes at play here: the magic the act of writing can have, what makes a person “good” or “bad”—can such a distinction even be made?—all explored against the backdrop of a kick-ass revenge story. I already want to reread it. . .

A different style book from.King and written smoothly and flawless. A book within a book, uniquely original to my knowledge. This certainly isn't a horror book but does have a glimpse of the supernatural in a few parts. A real page turner!

Billy Summers is the first proper novel we’ve gotten from King since The Institute in 2019, and to say I’ve been excited for this, for the better part of the last year, would be the understatement of well, the better part of the last year. It appeared that we weren’t going to get a new horror offering from King, and that turned out to be true. Billy Summers is not horror, but I’m hesitant to just call it a “thriller” or “crime novel” either as I think that would be doing the book a disservice. This book is a character study, and it is a perfectly executed one at that. It’s about the titular Billy Summers, a hired killer with a dark history, who only kills bad people. I have to admit this setup isn’t especially riveting; it’s something we’ve seen before, be it Dexter or something else. But this is Stephen King we’re talking about here - the character master. An author who is so good at immersing you into a person’s world, you often times close the book feeling like you know this person. Not only is this book no exception to that general rule, but I believe Summers to be one of King’s best and most thoroughly realized characters, right up there with Jack Torrance, Gard, Edgar Freemantle, Dolores Claiborne, and on and on. You spend virtually all of this book in Billy’s head and his shoes, and he really becomes an incredibly empathetic character. This novel sees King playing with some literary tropes, as well as some of his own personal tropes, in new ways. We get a story within a story and it is so, so well done. King even picks up and runs with the spirit of William Faulkner in a little bit of an homage to the great and ever-mysterious novel The Sound and the Fury, which both caught me off guard and made me incredibly happy as a fan of Faulkner. He plays with his own trope of writing about writers as well, which I thoroughly enjoyed. As I’ve said before, Billy Summers is a masterclass in character building and immersion, done in a way that only King can deliver. And for the diehard Constant Readers out there, there are plenty of Easter Eggs and hat tips to some of his classics. Where on the Tower does this fit? I don’t know, you’ll have to read and find out. I suspect this won’t be every King fan’s dream novel. It is not horror. It moves at King’s usual relaxed pace, which should come at no surprise. It contains some political references and jabs as well, and I know that annoys some people. While it doesn’t bother me personally in this case, there is more of this here than we’ve seen in the past. It’s been quite the year politically in the US, and anyone who’s even taken a passing peek at King’s Twitter knows where he stands, and that he is not shy about telling anyone who wants to listen. While there are no obnoxious and off-putting political rants here (looking squarely at you Dan Simmons and Flashback), there are enough Trump and MAGA mentions to potentially grate on someone-but just a tad. Don’t let this prevent you from picking the book up, even if you don’t like that sort of thing. This is King further exploring crime genres, which I know some of his fans are tiring of, but I do personally find this to be his best novel in that vein. I enjoyed it more than anything in the Bill Hodges trilogy, including The Outsider. King is on the ball, and further dipping into his seemingly endless well of creativity, and feels like more than just a genre book. If you’re a crime or thriller reader who generally avoids King and horror, this may be one worth taking a look at. If you’re a horror fan, I would still encourage reading it. I found it compulsively entertaining and readable, and had a hell of a time putting it down. 4.5/5

Stephen King is one of those rare authors who, like wine, seems to get better with age. Some authors fall into a slump or a rut as they get older, for whatever reason. Some peak early and never quite recapture that initial greatness. King doesn’t have that problem: he is always peaking. I think it’s because he is not afraid to take risks. He’s not afraid to always try something new, whether it’s time-travel science fiction (“11/22/63”), or police procedural (“Mr. Mercedes”), or dark fantasy (“Fairy Tale”). With “Billy Summers”, King has taken on a genre that he has always talked about taking on. He grew up loving the genre, reading authors like Richard Stark, Jim Thompson, James Cain, Donald Westlake. With “Billy Summers”, King has written his first noir thriller. It is both an imperfect and perfect novel. To clarify: King has taken all of the elements of noir fiction and has made it his own. By its purest definition, “Billy Summers” is an imperfect noir—-the character is almost too lovable; the main crime at the heart of the story is almost tangential to the story, becoming a MacGuffin; there is a noticeable lack of a hard-core villain. Of course, none of this is a detriment to the novel. Indeed, it’s what makes it perfect. Like all King novels, the best part of the novel is the characters. With the titular character, King has created one of his most compelling and heart-breaking anti-heroes. Billy is a hired assassin. He’s free-lance, but he works a lot for the mob, especially the East Coast syndicate. He’s one of the best. I know that’s what they always say about the killer in these books, but Billy was a sharp-shooter sniper in the Marines, with over 30 confirmed kills in Afghanistan and Iraq. He’s often compared to Chris Kyle. One thing that’s important to know about Billy: he’s a lot smarter than he acts. He calls it his “dumb self”, and it has saved his life more than once. He’s at that retirement age for hired killers, but, of course, the mob wants him for one last job. Billy is hired to kill another killer, a really bad guy. Billy himself is not a bad guy. He has a code. He doesn’t kill women, children, or decent men who have fucked up. He doesn’t have a problem putting a bullet in the brain of rapists or pedophiles, but he won’t do it if the guy just skimmed a few million or spilled wine on the mob boss’s new couch. This new target, though, is bad. But Billy has a thing about “last jobs”. He’s seen enough movies and read enough books about guys like him taking on a “last job”. Things always go south somehow. Always. Which is why Billy always has a contingent plan. As is typical for King novels, the story never goes where one expects, and “Billy Summers” is no exception. You know shit is gonna get real when the crime Billy is paid to do happens at the half-way mark in the novel, which means a whole lotta more shit is gonna happen. And it does. This is hands-down one of the best King books I have read in a long time. Oh, and by the way, it’s a tearjerker by the end, so have a box of tissues handy. I’ll leave it at that, because I don’t want to spoil anything. I “read” this as an audiobook, read by the actor Paul Sparks. It has to be said that Sparks has an uncanny ability to change his voice depending on each character, and each voice is convincing. If anything, this simply added to the experience of the book as a whole.

When most people think of Stephen King, they probably think of two things: 1)a horror writer and 2) bad at endings. The first makes sense; he got his start with horror and the majority of his most famous books fall under that category. However, King has pretty much done it all. He's written science fiction, fantasy, mystery, thrillers, non-fiction and character driven fiction in addition to horror. At this point, about half his work, including some of his best, aren't anything close to horror. For the second, yeah he's had some pretty bad endings, mostly to horror novels. I've said before that it's hard to do a good ending to a horror story. You spend a whole book building up an unbeatable, inescapable monster and now have to find a way for your characters to beat or escape said monster...unless you don't. Even if the best ending is for the good guys to lose, you can't do it every time without becoming predictable. When it comes to endings for non-horror books, King is actually extremely solid. The Green Mile, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, and The Body all have perfect endings. Okay, now if anyone is still reading this review, I'll actually talk about the book I'm supposed to be writing a review for. I guess the point of the Stephen King refresher course was to say this is one of King's non-horror books with a great ending. The plot is fairly loose and mainly focuses on the characters and their relationship. The first part of the book is a little slow and focuses mainly on character development About a quarter of the way thru, the book takes a bit of a twist, but things start to pick up from there on. As is the norm lately, Donald Trump gets mentioned way too damn much. Steve, get your frustration out on social media like the rest of us, so we can go back to forgetting that Trump exists. There weren't any rants in this one, but the number of mentions was probably a new King record. There's also a Fox news/Rupert Murdoch stand in that was about as subtle as a sledgehammer to the stomach. He also mentions the upcoming (in book timeline) pandemic a few times for no apparent reason. It plays no part in the story and just serves as a distraction. On a plus note, there was none of King's other new bad habit: self-referencing himself or his works (as pop culture). None of the characters name drop his books or movies based on them. One of his other books does come up, but it is in universe. It doesn't really play into the story, but it's a nice nod to Constant Reader. Unfortunately, I guess this means Trump is president in the StephenKingiverse, too. Now I don't know if other recent books are supposed to be in the real world or in-universe. Despite all the distracting current events stuff, I'd actually rank this as one of post-accident King's best.

I love the way that Jodi Picoult continues to grow and explore new narrative structures: moving backwards in time in "A Spark of Light" a la "Time's Arrow," or offering us a nonlinear examination of one woman's exploration of "what might have been" in her latest novel, "The Book of Two Ways." And "what might have been" is indeed the crux of this emotionally rich and complex novel. Some of the small moments of families in crisis in Massachusetts are tender and wistful -- the protagonist's family, but also the family of the woman she helps care for as a death doula -- while the bigger moments in Egypt are rich with the history of how another, distant culture handled death and dying. I know I'll be pondering the arc and the revelations for a while, and savoring every moment of those contemplations.

Happy Publication Day to this unique and fascinating read. I loved this beautiful book, which is about roads (or lives) not taken. Dawn is a mother to a young daughter and a wife to Brian, but years ago, she was an Egyptologist, excavating tombs with the handsome and charismatic Wyatt. She leaves Egypt, and Wyatt, abruptly to attend to her dying mother at home, and then meets Brian. She marries him and never goes back to Egypt or the man she left behind. Fifteen years later, when Dawn is in a plane crash (no spoilers: this all occurs at at the beginning of the book) and facing possible death, it is not her husband she thinks of but her previous love Wyatt. The book then follows Dawn in her two lives: one at home in Boston with her husband and child, and her lost past life in Egypt, where she returns to see Wyatt and the life she left behind as an Egyptologist and excavator of Egyptian tombs. Dawn is two different people with the different men (Wyatt even has a different name for her) and she must choose one life, one man, and one person she wants to be going forward. The idea of the two possible lives is based on an ancient Egyptian text, The Book of Two Ways. I was fascinated by all the Egyptology in this book, the hieroglyphics, and the way the excavation of the tomb is used as a beautiful metaphor. There was definitely NOT too much Egyptology for me - but then, I have always been interested in Egypt and as a little girl I made my parents take me to see King Tut. This book renewed my interest and I did some heavy Googling to find out if the mummy king was real (fictional, but based on another real king) and the text of the Book of Two Ways was real (very real). This is a dense book with a lot of information (even some quantum physics!) and it will take a significant investment of your time and heart, but the rewards are great. It sounds wild, but somehow Jodi Picoult always makes me feel like I have learned something huge about life, and I leave her books feeling enlightened. In this case, the book had a lot of pretty deep things to say about life and death, and the unfinished things we feel we need to do or see before we die.. It was also beautifully validating of the fact that we all have paths in our lives that we did not take that perhaps we will always wonder about. The structure of the book and the several big reveals are just beautifully executed. I have some mixed feelings about the ending but it was lovely and fitting. Thanks to NetGalley, Jodi Picoult and Ballantine Books for the advance copy of this transcendent book in exchange for my honest review.

An actual masterpiece from the queen, Jodi Picoult. The Book of Two Ways is structured with two possible paths - each one playing out what would happen if Dawn Edelstein chose one versus another. You might think this storytelling device has been popping up more often lately (and you'd be right) but trust me when I say Picoult spins this on its side in the best way. It's no secret that Picoult is my favorite author of all time and I've been reading her since high school when my mom begrudgingly let me delve into her stash of books that were possibly "a little too mature" for a 13 year old but I'm grateful she did. In true JP style, this book is rich with research, mostly of Egyptian culture as well as in the world of a death doula and end of life practices and is as informative as it is entertaining. My best advice for this book is to go in blind, devour every page and appreciate the ride. You'll be glad you did. Thank you to Random House for an advanced copy. All opinions are my own.

For me (because I suspect this book wouldn’t speak to all readers), this book was very cathartic— and I must say again, for me. Fascinated with ancient Egyptian history yet knowing pretty much nothing about quantum physics— the information imparted throughout the story was not just dizzying, it was (that word again) fascinating! I learned so many things I knew nothing about and found myself thinking about them when I wasn’t reading the book. (And in total transparency— might have skimmed once or twice to get back to the fictional story). Having only read one other Picoult novel, I knew there would be some wrenching scenes, hard choices, and truths not often shared out loud. I was right but there was so much more that I didn’t expect and glad I knew nothing else going in. Grief is so often taboo that I relished the conversation across many scenes. Death shouldn’t be a private conversation— we will all be touched by it, over and over, until we succumb to it. That is why I will cherish this book— not for its domestic drama or archeological scenes (although those were great), but because I learned so much more about dying than we are ever “allowed” to discuss openly. Thank you Ms Picoult!! PS— Death doulas should be covered by insurance… and should be a common choice for anyone needing one. (Reviewed 1/17/24)

Loved this story of what ifs, second chances and the road not taken.

Wow!!!! Release date is September 22, 2020!!! This one packs a punch with emotion driven themes on life, on dying and on love. A plane crash shakes Dawn, but it’s really more avoid being torn between two lives and two loves. I love the way that author Jodi Picoult weaves the stories together while allowing the reader to get to know the characters. Brian and Wyatt both have different things to offer to Dawn... and learning from some of her wisest patients just may be the best prescription for figuring out her life. Clear, well developed characters with a simmering tension that is set to boil over.... but will it?? Alternating timelines are woven together with deep soul searching that resonates deep within me- even now after the book has been down for hours. I love the history and the way that Egypt comes alive with the history, setting and scenes as Dawn chases after her future. Totally enjoyed and would really recommend to my friends!!! Thank you to NetGalley for this temporary digital advance review copy for me to read and enjoy. My review is voluntary and my opinions are my own.

How could I possibly explain the degree to which I loved this book so much? I'm actually rather obsessed with it. It is by far, my favorite of the year, in my top ten for life, and I am considering replacing it as my favorite book of all time. This was just so beautifully and brilliantly written. Five stars for Jodi Picoult. I really think you have to be an extremely talented author to pull this one off. You guys all know, I give zero spoilers in reviews, and I actually hate it when others reveal way too much in a review when the book should simply be experienced. I am going to be furious when I read just about any review of this book, because there is so much that needs to unfold exactly as it does. You have no idea what is going on until it all falls together. And that is part of the amazing ride. As you are reading this, you are like "How is this all supposed to ever come together?" And yet it does, and does so beautifully. So what is it about. At the heart of the story is Dawn, who was (and is) an Egyptologist. She is also a mother, and a death doula, one who helps others usher out their lives with dignity, integrity, respect, and honor. These things all go together, (see I am already crying), because the book is about how one lives one's life, and how death causes us to consider how we live - and about how we are remembered by our connections, and the things that mattered most to us. Which are usually people and our roles and our experiences truly living. As an Egyptologist, Dawn is a premier world expert on the Book of Two Ways, where in ancient Egypt, those entombed would use this "map" on the interior of the coffin, to figure out how to get to the everlasting afterlife, through a series of obstacles that ask you to measure your life. One way is by land, the other by water, but they both arrive at the same place, if you can get there. The book also explores multiple universes, and how we are defined by the choices we make. So Dawn spends time in both Egypt/Land, and Boston/Water, trying to understand what life is supposed to be about and how it should be lived. Its is beautifully, written, and I do believe completely enhanced by the audio experience. I will remember this book for the rest of my life. I feel forever changed for the experience of having read it. And I don't say that lightly. In the author's note, the narrator reads that Jodi had a different ending in mind than the one that was written and has come to believe that the present ending is absolutely right. I agree. But I have to know, what Jodi, was the one you previously envisioned? I may need to write to her, and tell her, as I have told so many of you in the past, how I want to be a fly on the wall, if not a guest, at these lunches that she has with my other favorite author, Alice Hoffman. I know they are good friends, and I want to be their third wheel. But let me start by just asking her about the ending. I have a feeling she will write me back. Who doesn't just love a fan, who loves her book? Anyway, there is a spirituality to Jodi and Alice's writing, and that is why they are favorite authors to me. But there is a particular spirituality to this book, that shines through, and is at its essence. This book is about the bonds of love, life, and who we are. It's about past, present, and future all intertwined. If you read one book this year, I'd go with this one. This one was a beautiful standout, with five stars from me.

went above and beyond my expectations! though i am a huge jodi picoult fan, i find her work can be hit-or-miss. didn’t help i really didn’t like her last novel, a spark of light—and the synopsis of this one didn’t call to me. a story told in dual timelines? with a focus in egyptology? i expected this book to be a chore: early reviews didn’t help, saying picoult gets lost in the weeds of egyptology at the expense of the narrative. i know dick about middle egypt, and mummification, and tombs. but picoult made me care. i didn’t find the detail excessive or boring—the author creates her world, giving the reader what they need to fully immerse themselves in it. this book is, at its heart, a love story. picoult steps away from the controversial topics of her last few outings and instead seems to go back to her roots, probing at the things that make us human and the difficulties of human connections, all while asking difficult questions with which many writers wouldn’t bother. perhaps one of the most surprising books i’ve read this year, this beautiful rumination on life and death and second chances is the work of a veteran author pulling off an amazing feat, and never losing the plot in the process.

Read with your third eye Sister Soulja will never write another 'The Coldest winter' type of book, so if you're looking to receive the same material, don't bother. But, if you're looking to look "deeper" into the words on these pages, you'll see that AGAIN, Sister Soulja is providing an urban masterpiece. There is no mindless content full of ghetto bastard behavior in this book. It's about life, lessons, vanity and the impact our choices have on everyone around us. Enjoy this book because it's full of gems hidden in plain sight.

This book was probably the strangest, most bizarre book I have ever read in my entire reading life... and it was amazing! I will admit that at first, I was like, “WTF is this?! Who asked for this? We did not need a sequel.” It started off on a note I wasn’t expecting at all. Fantasy is not my genre of choice. BUT I stuck with it and was rewarded, at least to me, for my patience. This book is ahead of it’s time, way WAY ahead of its time. It’s so well crafted and mapped out. Weird and extremely uncomfortable to read at times. I got frustrated with Winter and hoped she wouldn’t eff what little progress she’d make in a chapter only for her to disappoint and eff things up anyway. But her character arc was real, raw, flawed, and consistent. If you do the disservice of starting and not finishing this book, you miss out in a major way. I initially was disappointed at Winter’s lack of growth for the majority of the story, but eventually she got it. I read TCWE as a teen and loved Winter. But when I reread the story again as an adult, I became super aware of how selfish and ugly she was. When I heard there would be a sequel, I was hyped to see if Winter changed, if she grew because she didn’t seem to have matured in the minor scene she appeared in, in Porsche’s story. I was almost sad Winter didn’t show growth at the start or middle of the book, but girlfriend arrives at the end. The religious aspect in this story will always be up for debate but I loved it for Winter, sis needed it. Sister Souljah remains one of my favorite authors. What she did here was brilliant and on a third eye level. If this story proved anything to me, it’s that she’s a visionary.

** spoiler alert ** 22 years ago, Sister Souljah blessed the urban literary world with The Coldest Winter Ever. A book that inspired some, if not all, of our favorite authors. Young adults loved Winter for her street smarts and hood celebrity status. Now, Winter, and all her fans are grown. After doing a 15-year bid, Winter Santiaga is back and ready to claim everything that she felt she has lost, and ready to claim everything she feels she deserves. Like any hood celebrity, Winter feels her release should be celebrated. After some convincing from her brother-in-law, Elisha, Porsche's husband, Winter decides to take her release to television, on a reality tv show. But like any other plan that Winter has ever conceived, it's thwarted, changing the game indefinitely. "Everybody know Winter Santiaga is all about action and hustle, plotting and planning, making it and taking it, and a dead bitch can't do that shit." From the moment this read starts, you can see that Winter has little to no growth from her time in prison. Instead of using her time wisely to grow and learn, she's spent it trying to figure out how to exact revenge on her enemies and on how to be "the top bitch". "That's when I promised myself, I'm moving whoever murdered me to the top of my 'payback's a bitch' list. It had taken me fifteen minutes after my arrest to put together my payback list. But it took me fifteen years to put together each scheme on exactly how I was gonna do it." She befriended people that should have been her enemies, only to later regret it. "'The show must go on,' Simone said in her low, manly voice. 'Life After Death' like B.I.G. said. and dead entertainers sell more merchandise than living entertainers ever die, like B.I.G. did. Bet y'all didn't know that! Winter wanted to be the star, so she got murdered on camera, a dramatic debut.' Simone waved her arms in the air, still holding the Ciroc." Before Winter starts her after life journey, she's allowed to visit the two people that she loves the most, Midnight and her father, the infamous Ricky Santiaga. "Somebody got me! But don't you worry about who did it. Stay still for me. Don't kill whoever did it. I'm gonna get you the fuck out of here. I'm gonna put you where you belong. Trust me, you're Baby Girl. Poppa, you did everything in life for me. Now I'm gonna be the one to king you!" Winter's unable to see her reflection or even have any interactions with her loved ones. She's even unable to comprehend what's going on, but when she comes to her own conclusion about what's going on, she does what only Winter Santiaga can do, run game in the afterlife. "Someone was trying to break me, I know. But Winter Santiaga is not easily broken." The next 80% of this book gets really weird, even tricky. Winter Santiaga takes the afterlife on the best way she knows how. The afterlife, which is known as The Last Stop Before the Drop, has all the worldly things Winter can want and more. Her designer labels, expensive cars and even men that can fuck her into oblivion. Old habits die hard and they definitely cost Winter, ultimately teaching her a lesson that is learned almost too late. She's turned in to several different animals, killed in the afterlife twice and even meets the souls of her aborted kids. If any of this sounds weird to you, then you are correct in your assessment. Those aspects of the book were almost hard to digest, but not hard to read. It was like reading a paranormal book. "Unexpectedly, because it was not something anyone would ever imagine is desirable or even possible, I fully awake and with my same Winter Santiaga mind and thoughts, had turned into a red python." This book was deep. This book was religious. This book made me think. This wasn't your typical junk food book that you love to read. This book was one of the required reading books they assigned you in grade school. I found myself with 4 pages of notes and over a hundred highlights when I finished this book. It was enlightening. It didn't feel good reading, but it was definitely necessary. Winter's way of thinking and her mentality irritated me throughout this read. She knew what needed to be done and refused to do it. Winter reminded me of plenty close-minded people, myself included, so her story wasn't far-fetched. Winter's time in the afterlife broke her down, gave her life meaning and taught her multiple lessons. "Don't know if I will ever be able to let pride go even though I know it's wrong. I don't know if I even want to. I don't cover my hair or wear religious-type clothing. For me that ain't it. But I do worship One God and make my prayers in the early morning and late night, when no one can see me. Once I find and marry a real man who makes my heart and my pussy thump, who loves me right up to the line of worship, I'll let him be the only one that sees me bow down before him, bowing down beside me, to the One who created us both and us all." My overall assessment is: I enjoyed this book. It held my attention from the beginning until the end. Even with Winter constantly working on my nerves, I was still able to enjoy. Even with all of its weirdness, I was never confused on what was happening in the book. I don't think this book should have been categorized as a sequel. This book had the same characters from The Coldest Winter Ever but was an entirely different vibe from the original book, it only held the tiniest bit of nostalgia. Now we wait, for the next book.

Ummmmmm🤔 You know what, I could be wrong but I think Souljah used Life after Death to her advantage. She knew many was waiting for it to drop and I think she saw it as a perfect opportunity to try and reach and drop the jewels on as many ears that would listen. And many jewels she dropped! Eventhough she dropped them metaphorically it still made it a dope azz read. Actually it made it more interesting for me. And I will leave it at that. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 🙌🏾🙌🏾🙌🏾🙌🏾🙌🏾

RAW!! This book was EVERYTHING!! Souljah went deep for those who are opened minded. Winter swore that she was the baddest thang walking but in reality, a reality that Souljah showed us, she most certainly wasn't. Souljah dropped so many jewels throughout this book and I'm sure some of it went over some heads but for those of us, who gets it, she did that

The Coldest!!! Life After Death... This title is literal. This was a hell of a ride we were taken on. I don’t base my love for a book or an author on the reviews of the basic. This book is for the Winters of the world to save their souls before it’s too late, in case you didn’t get the first message in TCWE. This book is to be read with an OPENED mind. This book is for real readers with the ability to comprehend. Sister Souljah is doing what she does in real life through her literary work, using her platform to attempt to save the soul of the people. Read, absorb and apply as necessary. The end of this book was worth the confusion and the round about way we were taken to get there!!!! The end of this book is why I upgraded my 4 star review to 5 stars. I was definitely reminded of the reason why Porsche is my most favorite person in any book I’ve ever read. Her level of love is unmatched.

Winter Santiaga’s story has always been a cautionary tale, although many saw Winter as an icon or idol. In Life After Death, Sistah Souljah extends that caution to a higher level. What are the eternal consequences for our actions? Can we live with the decisions that we make and the actions that we commit? Souljah reminds me of Toni Morrison or Zora Neale Hurston in that her stories are layered and have much to say within the story that is being told. Great read, if you are ready to think!

Another intriguing story. Once you begin , there is no way, not to be hooked. The characters are absolutely fabulous and come through strong.

Do you like apples? Well I got my favorite author back. How do you like them apples? My relationship with Liane Moriarty has felt a little one-sided in recent years. I became smitten with her when I read The Husband’s Secret but really fell hard for Big Little Lies. I went back and read most of her previous catalog but then… Truly Madly Guilty and Nine Perfect Strangers. (AKA Truly Madly OMG-pleasestopsayingatthebarbecue and Nine Perfect WTH-isthisactuallyhappeningamIondrugs.) I really needed a winner from my dear Liane or I was going to have to consider a breakup, and I’m over the moon that she delivered. Apples Never Fall follows the tennis-obsessed Delaney family, which includes two recently-retired parents and their four adult children. Matriarch Joy has gone missing, so there is an intriguing “what happened to mum?” plot to keep the pages turning. The thing that Liane Moriarty absolutely excels at is characterization. She must be the most keen observer of the human condition, because she nails insightful - and accurate - idiosyncrasies that make each of her fictional creations feel truly real. Fair warning though that there is a lot of tennis in this book. A LOT. You don’t have to like tennis to like the book, but if you love it… you’ll love it. And because you know I can't resist a little wordplay, I’ll end with this: Liane Moriarty is back in form and serving aces once again. Blog: https://www.confettibookshelf.com/

Do you have a favorite Liane Moriarty book? I’m a fan, and I think this one is mine, but then I always think her latest book is my favorite! 😍 Apples Never Fall is the story of the Delaney family. They are peas in a pod, those Delaneys. One day the mother, Joy, goes missing, and the Delaney father, Stan, is the prime suspect in her disappearance. Married for over fifty years, they seem like the perfect power couple ready to enjoy a new stage of life together. That said, they are beyond unhappy. The Delaneys have four adult children together. A stranger named Savannah appears one night, and the Delaneys allow her to stay. That’s when Joy goes missing, and only Stan is left holding the bag when his wife (and Savannah) are gone. Two children side with Stan in his innocence, but the other two aren’t so sure. Who do you believe? This is a juicy little mystery with a WOW ending I never saw coming. Lots of family drama in these pages, and a well-written, engaging story to boot. I already have hopes we’ll see it on the small screen one day. Well-done! I received a gifted copy. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

I love Liane Moriarty and was excited to read this even before I knew what it was about. After reading the synopsis I really couldn't wait to get my hands on it. I was super hyped. Then of course I started to worry that I was going to be let down. Nope! I LOVED it. I was gripped right from the start and while I was curious to find out how it was going to end, I was sad when it was over. I've seen some mixed reviews (obviously we're not all going to love all the books) but for me, this was a hit. Really hope we don't have to wait to long for the next Liane Moriarty novel!

I FINALLY FINISHED A BOOK ! It took forever, but I loved it. (*And it didn't take too long because of the book, it took too long because of my life at the moment. An almost 500 page book does not go quickly when you only get 10 minutes a night to read!) I know there are a lot of mixed reviews out there for this book. People complain they have no idea what the point was, nothing happens, it's too long (it kind of was - more on that in a second), but you know what? I absolutely, 100% could not have loved and appreciated this more. Real quick - if you have a chance to listen to the audiobook of this. I HIGHLY recommend that you do. (Or split your time like I did between reading and listening.) The narrator is so amazing in how she brought the crazy Delaney family to life. Particularly, in her personification of Joy Delaney. I was laughing out loud, in public - I don't mean chuckling - I mean full out guffawing. My husband looked at me weird a few times. Having the narrator's voice of each character in my head while I was reading was such a pleasure. This was NOT a plot based book - this is strictly character driven, so if you don't like those then 100% steer clear. The book I would relate this to that I've read in the past few years is All Adults Here. It is just like that in terms of you follow different members of a family in each chapter and the story is about a time in the life of this family. Joy (the matriarch of the Delaney family) is missing. Her four kids don't quite realize she is missing until they realize she is. It kind of looks like Stan (their father), may have had some involvement, but did he? Then there was this mysterious house guest that stayed with Joy & Stan for a few weeks a couple of months before she disappeared. Is she involved in Joy's disappearance? So many questions and it takes a long time to get through it, but wow, I loved every single second of that journey. This family was amazing to spend time with. I also loved how you zoomed out and got small chapters from neighbor's and police detectives and hairdressers and other extraneous people that had some connection to the Delaney family. It was just so great. Book length - yes. It's too long. I'm not quite sure what to cut though? I had the same thought with The Most Fun We Ever Had. That book was entirely too long and it made it drag, but for whatever reason this book did not drag for me. There was a period during the last 100 pages where I kept thinking this is the end. Oh wait, no it's not? Okay, now it's the end. Still? Not the end? But it didn't annoy me because it was providing a conclusion. I've been going through a lot in my life for the past month and a half. A lot of it has been very stressful and it has been wonderful to turn to this family every night and catch up with them. I will hold this book in my heart forever because of it. (Sorry this review is a jumbled mess, I'm writing it in a hurry!) Thank you so much to Henry Holt Books for the gifted print copy, Liane Moriarty and Libro.fm for the gifted ALC. Review Date: 09/17/2021 Publication Date: 09/14/2021

Having Caroline Lee read this new Liane Moriarty release is the secret ingredient in my book experience. This is, without a doubt, my favorite so far from the esteemed author. There are so many moving parts: tennis, marriage difficulties, sibling rivalry, revenge, cell phones, flirting, shopping, memoirs, and so much more. The least of which is the famous apple crumble. What is it that gives it that over the top taste that no other apple crumble can match? And you need four apples to make it --love the cover art. There are also four Delaney children. Hmmm! So much to unpack with this one. I love, love, love this one. The surprises kept popping up. Each time I thought we had reached the conclusion, up goes the curtain for another scene that perfectly complements and completes the prior narrative. If you can, listen to it. You will not be disappointed! Thank you to Macmillan Audio and NetGalley for an audio ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Stan and Joy Delaney have been married for almost fifty years, they live in a quiet street on the outskirts of Sydney and the couple recently sold their successful tennis coaching business and have retired. They have four adult children, Troy, Logan, Amy and Brooke and the couple are classed as empty nesters. The one thing Joy doesn’t have, is grandchildren, and she’s eagerly waiting for one of her children to make her a grandmother. Joy mysteriously vanishes on a hot summers day, she left home, didn’t take her phone, handbag, spare clothes and her bank account hasn’t been touched. Stan’s a big man, he’s fit for his age, and he wouldn’t have harmed Joy, hid any evidence and lied to his children? The Delaney siblings are suddenly looking back at their childhood, for any signs their parent’s marriage wasn’t a happy one and like most couples they had the odd disagreement. Joy seemed happy being a wife, mother, business and tennis partner of Stan. Did she resent being the only one to cook the family meals, pack the school lunches, do endless loads of washing, did they all take what she did for granted and has she done a runner? Stan and Joy, had a young woman stay with them for six weeks last year, her name is Savannah, and could she have something to do with Joy’s disappearance? As the two detectives, family, friends and business acquaintances look back at life in the Delaney home, conversations, family interactions and celebrations can be viewed very differently and opinions vary. Liane Moriarty has a way of layering a story, with lots of little details and moments, that makes you think about what really goes on behind closed doors and anything is possible. I received a copy of Apples Never Fall from NetGalley and Pan Macmilan Australia, it has the perfect amount of intrigue, mystery, suspense, anticipation and family drama, and five stars from me. https://karrenreadsbooks.blogspot.com/

I loved the book as I knew I would. It is a great family story with a mystery. There are some major surprises in this too. The people who gave it low ratings prior to the ARC release were ridiculous. I am glad I offset it with my review.

Oh how I love Australian writer Liane Moriarty. One of my all time favourite books is What Alice Forgot, so when I hear about a new book coming the excitement builds. Apples Never Fall had all the ingredients of another hit and she nailed it once again. I hope this one will also been made into a series, I would love to see this on the screen. Meet the Delaney family - Stan, Joy and their 4 adult children - Loga, Brooke, Troy and Amy. The family used to run a successful tennis academy until recently and now Joy and Stan are retired. All the kids grew up playing tennis to please their parents but did they really want to? As with every family there are secrets, lies, resentment and lots of love. Sibling rivalry is a big part of this family drama. It is funny, emotional and real. I love how the author tugs at the heart strings and brings her characters to life. When Joy goes missing without a trace, no note and her bike discarded, the family is worried. It is not like Joy to not call, not answer her phone. But the siblings know that their father will be the prime suspect - it is always the husband right! We learn about the family in the now and flashbacks to the past. And who is Savannah and how does she fit into all of this? Liane Moriarty fans will love this story, set in my hometown. Full of drama and laughs, it is one not to miss. Thanks to MacMillan Australia for my advanced copy of this book to read.

It is hard to be disappointed with a Liane Moriarty book if you’ve enjoyed her work before. There’s always a mystery, a personal struggle, big build ups and a legit ending. This book was all that I expected (and more) to the very end. The characters are well written, making each one seem like someone you personally know! I loved learning about the Delaney family. Two retired tennis instructors who are willing to bring a stranger into their home. I loved following their four suspicious children who are working together to make sure their parents are still making sound decisions. When Mrs Delaney suddenly goes missing, the hunt is on to find out the ‘where and why’. This is a wonderfully written story – You don’t even notice how long the book is until you’re finished. Liane Moriarty doesn’t disappoint! Side note: Am I the only one that saw the Savannah character as Keeley from Ted Lasso? 😂😂

I have no hesitation rating this 5 stars, as it was clever and surprising, and right up there with my top read by Moriarty - Big Little Lies. I really enjoyed the characters too, particularly the four adult children - Amy, Logan, Troy, and Brooke. And, I'm not a sporty person, but even the tennis aspect was interesting. An all-round winner.

Apples Never Fall is fabulous! A superbly written family drama that has all the elements of a true page turner. The prologue pulls the reader straight into a mystery. The story is told in present day where Joy Delaney is missing and then back over the previous five months that led up to Joy's disappearance. In the present day: the four grown Delaney children are trying to sort out their own feelings and the rising fear that maybe their father has harmed their mother. As police interview each family member it's clear everyone is holding something back and the circumstantial evidence against their father builds. Previously: recently retired Joy and Stan Delaney find that time on their hands leads to resentments, unspoken grievances and regrets. When a young woman arrives on their doorstep clearly distressed Joy invites her to stay. Suddenly Joy has meaning to life as she cares for Savannah. Savannah also gives Joy the attention that has been lacking from her children. But cracks start to form and everyone starts to wonder what Savannah's true agenda is. Moriarty engineers a complex breaking down of each characters thoughts and dreams and we see everyone is holding something back. The mysteries are layered and compelling. Apples Never Fall is a keenly observed family drama with finely nuanced characters. Underlying themes of domestic violence, anger and child abuse give a chilling look at parents in competitive sports. In Apples Never Fall Moriarty depicts marriage and family in all its love, rage, passion, grievances, regrets, dreams, resentments and splendid dysfunctionality. Above all this is a story of the complexity of family and all things that are left unsaid. I received my copy from the publisher

Story & audio 4.5 stars** Narrator Caroline Lee

4.5/5 I always love reading books by Liane Moriarty, and Apples Never Fall was the perfect example of Moriarty at her best. I loved the writing style she used, and I found myself chuckling or laughing out loud very consistently throughout the entire book. It reminded me a little bit of Anxious People in terms of writing style, and these are the kinds of books I love best. Joy's viewpoint always made me laugh, but I had a lot of fun with every single viewpoint there is. I loved the mix of the present timeline along with the past, and really enjoyed the way they tie together at the end. There are a lot of viewpoints, but I thought it was done very well and I never got confused about who anyone was. I liked the detective viewpoint as well, and besides Joy, I think hers was my favorite. Best of all, I LOVED the audiobook, which is narrated by Caroline Lee, and while I loved her narration for the entire book, I especially loved her for Joy. If I was going to voice cast, she is definitely who I would have picked, and she really brought Joy alive for me. The audio is fairly long at just over 18 hours, but I spent the whole time wishing it would never end. It didn't feel that long at all and I thoroughly enjoyed every moment of it. While the ending wasn't a total surprise for me, there were still some great twists along the way that I wasn't expecting. I think that overall, I just loved the experience I had with this book, and I really think that if you loved Anxious People you will also love Apples Never Fall. I wouldn't say this is a fast-paced novel, but it felt very well-paced for me and I definitely liked the pacing more than Nine Perfect Strangers. I don't know much about tennis but that was a fun aspect as well and family drama abounds if you are into that too! Such a huge win for me with Moriarty and this is a book I will hold onto forever. Thank you to the publishers for my advanced listening and physical copies of this book. All opinions and thoughts are my own.

creative ways of presenting characters and backgrounds plus her as subtle as effective sense of humor made me see how I'd missed ms. moriarty. ♡

Sep 2023 reread - still obsessed FIRST OF ALL, thank you so much to the publisher for sending me a physical ARC of this book, it made my year. I finished this book, immediately sobbed like a baby for a few minutes, and then opened up Goodreads to attempt to type my MYRIAD thoughts into some sort of coherent review. I have been reading a lot of 'serious' mystery/thriller books lately, with very disappointing twists and turns that leave me feeling unsettled in their poor execution. These books are generally by men, which is interesting, and generally involve womens' mental health issues. Liane Moriarty writes these books that always seem to be classed as 'women's fiction' (which is such a dumb genre title) but are SO MUCH MORE. This book is a mystery at its heart, following a family in Sydney whose matriarch suddenly disappears. Every twist and turn shocked me, the ending was deeply and perfectly satisfying, and every single loose end was tied. But alongside that, I got seven deep character studies of deeply relatable and invariably flawed individuals, all struggling to overcome their traumas, issues, and hurts. I found something to adore in each character, and something to hate too. Amy struck a particular chord with me as someone who suffers from anxiety. If you have ever discounted this type of book because it's a 'beach read', I would BEG you to reconsider!! It has every element of an excellent beach read in that it is compulsively readable, but its value is in its characters and its excellent plotting. LIANE MORIARTY FOR LIFE

I received an advanced copy of this book from Net Galley and the publisher in return for an honest review. The release date for this book is 28 July 2020 Catherine Coulter is one of my favorite authors and boy does she deliver with this novel. The latest addition to her FBI series is incredibly engrossing and such a good read. The book’s two plots are well thought out and intriguing. You definitely feel invested in the main characters and the supporting cast adds great flavor to both of the plots. I highly recommend this novel to anyone who loves a good, no make that a great intriguing novel.

This book was so good that I had to read it twice! I truly love this FBI series by Catherine Coulter and had been eagerly awaiting the 24th title as this is one of my favorite series. This thrilling book is one that seamlessly weaves together two storylines. I honestly don't know which one was more intriguing to me, and like I said, this book already got a reread from me. The story begins with Rebekah Manvers finding herself in front of a medium called Zoltan. Rebekah was especially close to her grandfather, so when she is contacted and told that he is calling for her, Rebekah just has to see what she might learn. Of course, she was skeptical, but her curiosity won out. Then there is Marsia Gay. Currently awaiting trial and more angry with FBI agent Dillon Savich than she can bear. Savich is responsible for her incarceration and as far as Marsia is concerned, he is a dead man walking - even if it means his family gets caught in whatever crossfire Marsia lays out. Savich is torn. Of course his most important objective is to keep his wife, fellow FBI agent Lacey Sherlock, and their son Sean safe. Not only must Savich dig deeper where it concerns Marsia, there is something going on with Rebekah, especially after she almost loses her life. So Savich must turn over every stone, especially considering the medium is someone new in Rebekah's life. As always, Savich's intuition is right on target when he suspects the medium that contacted Rebekah is not all she is cracked up to be. Sherlock and another FBI agent Pippa Cinella become a part of the investigation, revealing rather confusing connections that no doubt will eventually tie together. As a jigsaw puzzle enthusiast, I was drawn to the cover, as well as how puzzles were part of one of the cases Savich was working on. Having read all the previous books in this series, as well as Coulter's Brit in the FBI series, I love how she brought in the aspect of puzzles when it came to getting to the bottom of what was going on. As always Savich and Sherlock are as tight as can be, although the romantic in me wouldn't have minded a few more scenes with just the two of them. However, missing that part certainly did not take away my enjoyment of this book. The first time I read the book it was in one sitting and the second time I downloaded the audiobook, and also listened to it in one sitting. The crafty talent of Coulter shone through from the very start to the arresting conclusion. Now, to wait another year for the 25th book in the series. Many thanks to Gallery Books and NetGalley for this ARC to review in exchange for my honest opinion.

Holy mackerel! Every one of these FBI books is better than the one before it. Coulter manages to find delightfully creepy situations for Dillon and Sherlock to escape while introducing new and interesting characters. I especially like the way folks from other stories pop in and out of each new story. I was so lucky and got this book in one of the giveaways. I was so tickled to get it and devoured it right away!

Thank you Goodreads for the opportunity to review the book. I was leery since it is #24 in the series, but found it very easy to follow and could justifiably be a stand-alone. I enjoyed getting to know the characters weaving together two story lines. Spirituality, secrets and suspenseful!

Dillon Savich and Lacey Sherlock spring to life once again in Catherine Coulter’s latest FBI thriller. DEADLOCK begins with the thoughts and ramblings of a woman locked in a correctional facility, wanting revenge on Savich, who has caused her incarceration. Marsia would exact her death wish against her chief accuser, Veronica, and depart from this hellhole to sculpt once more. Enter Zoltan the Medium, who has summoned Rebekah, the wife of prominent politician Rich Manvers, to her home because of warnings she received from Rebekah’s dead grandfather, a former congressman. Rebekah has misgivings about calling up conversations with the dead but goes to Zoltan out of curiosity. The medium states that her grandfather has come to her with a message: “Rebekah, I want Rebekah, I want my Pumpkin. I must tell her—” He died from a stroke, but lingered on for many months until his final breath. His granddaughter visited almost daily, never taking his eventual demise as inevitable. Now, unbelievably, she will talk to him in his afterlife state. With the underpinnings of a mystical séance --- draperies fluttering, the lamp bursting into brightness, black smoke erupting from the fireplace embers --- the man enters the orbit through the voice of Zoltan. Remembered nicknames, hospital visits, her own vocational history as an art critic and historian: all are addressed in their conversation. The most important point he makes is about an adventure story he told her as a child --- a treasure that he and his friend, Nate Elderby, had taken from an evil sheikh’s caravan, which he called “The Big Take.” How would Zoltan be privy to this story if he had divulged this secret to his granddaughter and no one else? Leaving Zoltan’s house, Rebekah is confused and skeptical. Unanswered questions loom in her mind. Away from the eerie sensations, fatigue sets in as she walks to her car, and she decides to avoid future meetings with the medium. She tells her comforting husband all about this unsettling experience and proceeds to dismiss it, focusing instead on a luncheon that will take place at her daughter-in-law’s house the next day, a fundraiser for Rich’s re-election. However, before the festivities can begin, a large black-hooded man grabs Rebekah. He raises a syringe above her head and is soon joined by a second individual. But then someone interrupts the attack, jerking away her first assailant and striking his neck with a fist. When her attacker tries to subdue the would-be hero, the driver hits him on the head with a bottle of gin, helps his buddy up and into their SUV. Meanwhile, her rescuer pulls his gun, and, while on the ground, fires off six quick shots, exploding the car’s tire as it speeds off. Rebekah’s savior is Dillon Savich. Barely 35 pages into the book, the major issues have been carefully crafted. A mysterious séance, a political situation, a possible crime having taken place many years before that involves a man drowning, a present-day attempted kidnapping, and a revenge crime against a federal officer, with murder committed at a prison. Coulter’s novel features all of the above, along with diligent character development. During the investigation into Rebekah’s near-kidnapping, a box is delivered by mail to Savich at the Hoover Building. Inside the container, labeled PERSONAL, is one-third of a puzzle. When assembled, the picture shows an ancient pier and a sidewalk littered with human remains. The location, a scene from St. Loomis, Maryland, is identified by FBI agent Pippa Cinelli as her hometown. Savich sends her there to dig deeper but calls in local police chief Matthew Wilde when Cinelli is attacked and left bound in an abandoned building. Lacey Sherlock becomes embroiled in the case when her family’s very lives are put at risk. Far-reaching tentacles envelop all the players here. DEADLOCK is difficult to put down. You may need numerous late-night readings, complete with a flashlight or nightlight, to finish this satisfying thriller. Reviewed by Judy Gigstad

Oh I love reading books written Catherine Coulter, every one of her books grab you right from the get go and don’t let go until you’re finished if you’re lucky. This one is no exception! If you have never read any of her books all I can say is WHY. Thanks for another great read Catherine!

This is probably one of my favorite Savich/Sherlock books by far. Savich starts getting a package a day that is puzzle pieces divided into 1/4's. No one is able to identify where the puzzle originated even though they realize it's a coastal town somewhere. Pippa Cinelli an agent with the FBI but in the fraud department recognizes it as her home town. She goes in undercover and is investigating when someone kidnaps her. Savich goes to her rescue but also realizes the person after him is Marisa Gay, a killer he helped put away. All kinds of twists and turns involved. A Senators wife is contacted by a Medium to come and talk with her dead grandfather. She doesn't believe but decides to go. When she doesn't reveal things the medium wants her to, there is a kidnapping attempt that Savich just happens to interrupt while driving by. Both storylines are great and keep you guessing who is behind what.

A Gripping Tale. My favorite FBI couple are back and as usual right in the middle of things. An evil woman who Savich helped put away is hell bent on revenge. While in prison, she hires a man, ( who she is blackmailing) to start a fire in his house while his wife Sherlock and son are in the house while he is away. Savich is off trying to find out who caused harm to to the granddaughter of a late Congressman and wife of a Senator. The characters, good and bad, are fleshed out, the pace is rapid, and the crimes are full of intrigue.

Love, love this series. It is always hard to wait for the next book. But the next book is always so good. Thank you for your work. Yes I always recommend Catherine Coulter's books. s I always rare her books a 5. Never disappointing except I can't receive them faster. No dislikes with any of her books. Love her Brit series as well. I do recommend Catherine Coulter' books. Thank you.

FBI series is fantastic I love this series. Sherlock and Savich are a wonderful combination. This book keeps me guessing and trying to figure out what is going to happen as well as just a book to read. I like all the characters and the suspense. It is one of the books I can't put down. If anyone wants a good read, I highly recommend this book. I am ready for my next book, we did not finish with the medium.

I’d like to give her more than 5 stars I always look forward to reading another one of Catherine Coulter’s books. I can’t believe I just finished the twenty-fourth book in this series. I recommend them highly as they have great characters and fascinating plots. My only problem is that I can’t wait to find out what’s on the next page so I have a difficult time not putting them down until I’ve finished a book.

The key to it all Saving and Sherlock are back in the thick of things as an insidious psychopath tried to play a clever game with them. Planning to hurt Savich by killing his family only makes them laser locked in proving the psychopath 's guilt. Also, they pick up a case of a terrorized young bride who knows a big secret someone wants her to spill. Another great suspense thriller in the FB I series!

Action packed, riveting and with lots of giggles added in too! I greatly enjoyed reading the newest book in the FBI Series with Savich, Sherlock, Sean, Astro & the CAU team! There was plenty of action and drama. At times your heart stops from fear and boy are you relieved afterwards! I hope everyone enjoys this beloved series as much as I have! Here’s to many more books about these awesome characters!

I love Ms. Coulters Books and this one was not a disappointment at all. I love Savage and Sherlock. I even love their child Sean and his soul mate . Two mysteries in one! Actioned packed and you can feel the Adrenaline flowing !!! This was a most enjoyable ride Especially in the red Porsche !!! This is a fast pace ,intriguing ,suspenseful mystery . Thank you Ms. Coulter for giving me hours of of pleasurable reading.

“Noli timere. Be not afraid.” Or should we? For anyone who has not read this series, please start at the beginning. For those who have, one thing will become immediately clear throughout the pages… can you imagine yourself tasting the freshly baked pastries and enjoying the smell of café au lait? As we travel through the pages of this book, there is always something tempting to be eaten or sipped. 😋 Besides the scenic beauty that surrounds the characters, this truly is a mystery, suspense-thriller story to be savored. But these small beautiful moments of sitting out at a café eating a croissant enjoying the countryside doesn’t always last, as Penny takes us immediately into her suspense-built story, which also feels like a puzzle to be solved. And, there is the legend of the grey wolf. (page 205 hardcover) (Hence: the title of the book!) “…a grey wolf, wanted the old man to be strong and compassionate. Wise and courageous enough to be forgiving. The other, a black wolf, wanted him to be vengeful. To forget no wrong. To forgive no slight. To attack first. To be cruel and cunning and brutal to friends and enemies alike. To spare no one. …Which wolf will win, the grey or the black?...The one that I feed.” So, who or what is the grey wolf in this story? Who is going to be eventually fed? Who is Armand Gamache, head of homicide at the Surete, chasing down, trying to find that is causing all this harm, to the good people that he is hired to protect? What is the puzzle he must solve? And, is there anybody besides his own team that Armand can trust? As readers travel the many miles with Armand and his team, readers attempt to catch their breath along the way. We are expected to also catch the clues along with Armand, as he and his team race to figure out the mystery and save the people and possibly the country from a catastrophic event. Will there be devastating betrayal and loss? (No spoilers from me.) “We will feel him in the rain, in the wind, in the bite of snow, in the scent of autumn leaves, and in deep and penetrating silence. We might miss him terribly but will never be away from him. …returns to joy. As we all will, one day.” (Learn more about this quote in the author’s acknowledgements.) And as we read along, we can’t help but feel as unsettled about the various events that occur as Armand. As well as wonder why everything that happens appears to make no sense. Is anything that is happening connected? How will it all come together? Are readers being thrown red herrings? Or, do we need to pay particular attention to all these various clues? Who is behind this vicious plot? And, why? Will this puzzle ever be solved? Readers will be turning pages so fast, that by the end, they will find themselves out of breath, but most likely pleased by this action-packed thriller. Oh, and readers must never underestimate Armand, because there is always “The Black Wolf” to consider when it is released in 2025. But still, back to this book. I wouldn’t be surprised if other readers might wonder if something like this could possibly happen in our “real” world if power were put in to the wrong hands.

Mystery novels truly don't get much better than this. The plot winds through a multitude of settings from Three Pines to Montreal to isolated costal monasteries to the US to Italy and beyond. The excitement and pace never lets up. I often wonder at the sheer amount of research Louise Penny must do before she even begins to type chapter one. I loved the historical information about the liquor Chartreuse, it's famous recipe, and how it factored into the murder case/terrorist plot. By now thousands of reviews have been written, so I'll just say in brief that this is an excellent novel which readers can pick up and follow even if they've never read Louise Penny before. I greatly admire that aspect of her work--there's never a need to have read prior novels in the series. You can start enjoying them any time at any point.

Update: October 20th, 2025 I have just finished rereading The Grey Wolf. 9 more days until The Black Wolf s/b in my library via Libby. I reserved it very early. My review on The Grey Wolf from November 2024 is 👇 Enjoy all! Oh my, what can I say. A true page turner again. In the true Louise Penny writing style, she had us all over eastern Canada and U.S., even Europe this time trying to figure it out, was it or wasn’t it. She always lands Armand and Jean-Guy right where they should be. Then from a Grey Wolf to a Black Wolf in 2025. She acknowledges wonderful thanks to us, her fans, and yes Louise, we need Three Pines to grow. Do not miss reading her acknowledgments, there is more. If you have not read this series, please start now from the beginning with Still Life. Does Armand guess right? “It was one of the great dangers for an investigator. Turning guesses into fact. They need to trust their instincts, but rely on proof. So far they had precious little evidence.” And then this description brings the character to life. “The women’s grey hair was shooting off in all directions, including from her chin and upper lip. Her head looked like a Russian satellite. Her face, crisscrossed with deep lines like the earth after a drought, had a homemade tattoo between her eyes. A cross. Or an X. It was the sort made in prison. She wore a sagging tracksuit over her thin frame.”

Holy mother of all. Knocking on wood here but if Shel and I end up having another kid, regardless of gender, their name is def gonna be Louise Armand Penny Tuttle.

“The Gamache books are proudly crime novels, as you see in The Grey Wolf, but at their core they are about community. Acceptance. Belonging. Courage. The books are about the triumph of love and the power of friendship. About trying to do better.” Excerpt From The Grey Wolf Louise Penny This material may be protected by copyright. I devoured the first umpteen novels of Armand Gamache. Louise Penny is truly our modern day Agatha Christie. This book… the plot was not my favorite but I think that’s because it’s so uncomfortable knowing that eco or bioterrorism is a real threat to this world. While the events couldn’t possibly unfold in this particular manner, the threat is real. The political climate today is volatile at best. What I have always loved most is the characters and in her acknowledgments, the author wrote the above. This is why I have such a love and affection for Three Pines and all of the characters (even the duck 🦆!) Penny also tells us that Ruth’s poetry was a mostly Margaret Atwood. Atwood gave her permission to use her work for free ♥️ A eulogy was included (no spoilers) that Penny credits to Richard Wagamese. It’s such a beautiful way of expressing grief and how to handle loss. “We will feel him in the rain, in the wind, in the bite of snow, in the scent of autumn leaves, and in deep and penetrating silence. We might miss him terribly but will never be away from him. (Insert Name Here) returns to joy. As we all will, one day.” Excerpt From The Grey Wolf Louise Penny This material may be protected by copyright. This review has less to do with the novel and what I thought about it and more to do with the fact that every time I read a book in this series, I feel like I’m coming home.

From Chippewa legends to hidden monasteries, from political intrigue to mass murder, from the wilds of Quebec to Rome and Washington, D. C., the head of homicide for Surete du Quebec, Armand Gamache, and his two major assistants Isabella Lacoste and Jean-Guy Beauvoir, who is also his son-in-law, try to track down and prevent a major terrorist attack that will kill thousands and overthrow the government. After an old enemy calls Armand, someone breaks into his apartment and steals an old coat. If that isn't odd enough, the thief returns it to headquarters with an invitation to meet the next day and a strange list of spices. However, the young man who meets him speaks in riddles, bewildering the chief policeman. There is no mistaking the intention of another young man who barely misses Armand and runs down the first young man. But why? And how does it link with the executions of a postal worker and a retiring teacher? Or does it? As they unravel the threads of intrigue, they learn that someone plans to attack Montreal's water supply, killing thousands. Gamache, Louise Penny's hero, is an endearing and sometimes annoying character with a sharp mind and a kind heart. Penny's writing has a depth that I haven't been able to analyze to my satisfaction. It is certainly in the characters and in their interactions. She writes in an omniscient viewpoint that occasionally baffles me. She brings Quebec to life, not only in the city, but in the villages. She loves the people she writes about, even the crazy poet Ruth with her cussing pet duck. Penny's plotting is complex, employing lots of research and settings. Her plotting leaves me in awe. I wondered how she was going to bring the execution of two people in different parts of Quebec, an obscure monastery, a bottle of Chartreuse, a city mission, and "water" together, but she did it beautifully. In addition, she set this story up for a sequel elegantly. There are some trigger points for some people: some bad language, some homosexual friends, a couple of executions that happened prior to the story. This is not a cozy, but for people who enjoy suspense, it's an intriguing, fast-paced story with some deep characters. I can hardly wait for the sequel.

I would like to say that Louise Penny outdid herself in writing this book, especially the ending. She has Armand Gamache's favorite Three Pines characters in her story of a plot to poison the water of Montreal killing thousands of people. He starts out with a visitor in Three Pines for over a week not meeting with anyone but on leaving he leaves a note for Armand. Then Arnand's small living quarters in Montreal are broken into leaving a coat stolen with a message in it sent back to Armand. Louise takes us on many many other scenarios which are too lengthy to discuss but bring meaning into the story. Politicians and other people are involved in the story. I would say that Louise Penny wrote the story with her interest in the environment involved. I really like the ending a lot so will you.

Brava! This is my first Louise Penney novel, and I will say this, she should teach a master class on how to write a thriller! This checks all of the boxes on what is needed: a great opening hook, a compelling plot, well-developed characters, perfect pacing and tension, a shocking twist, and conclusion. I don't want to give any spoilers, and I know you can read the book summary to know what it's about. The situation that Inspector Gamache and his team encounter is eerily realistic and probable in today's world, which makes this such a propulsive thriller. This would make an excellent theatrical film adaptation. I will definitely go back to read Still Life to learn more of the Inspector's beginnings, but Penney does a wonderful job of sharing background information for new readers to the series. Looking forward to her next installment scheduled for 2025!

Once again Inspector Gamache is back in action with his trusted team in this action-packed, fast-paced installment in the series. An over the top case of terrorism is on the cusp of happening and the team can't trust anyone as the rot reaches the top of the police and political levels. The audiobook made the story even more exciting as the narrator was able to bring the characters to life and enhanced the sense of urgency the author has woven into the story. If you haven't read the series previously, you really need to read the books in order as each book builds the characters and their relationships more fully in each book in the series. Plus, you don't want to miss out on hours of wonderful entertainment in this Canadian cop mystery series. The characters are compelling and engaging drawing you further into the stories as you scoot to the edge of your seat cheering them on as they investigate and try to outrace the evil that is in their midst. This one has a slight bit of a cliffhanger, but not one that will have you shouting in frustration, rather you will be anxiously anticipating the next book in the series!

One of the best books until now, really full of suspense. I can't wait to read "The Black Wolf" next year.

Louise Penny is the only author who can have me both at the edge of my seat and in a puddle of tears on the last page of a book. Somehow she’s done that more than once. This was well worth the wait!

I don’t know how Louise Penny keeps doing it! After all of these books, I still can’t get enough of these characters and stories. After almost 2 years, since the last book, it feels like meeting with a good friend to come back to Armand Gamache and Three Pines. This book, just like the others had me hooked by the second page and held my attention until the last word. The best murder mystery series with the most endearing characters, memorable quotes, and subtle humor!

OMGGGGGG TJR is just a treasure 🥹🤍🚀📖 this kinda wasn’t what i expected at ALL but of course i’m in awe. the last 20 pages had me so teary eyed!!!! her strong female main characters remain unmatched. honestly i think my rating is maybe more of a 4.5 vs 5 simply because in my opinion, this doesn’t come close to DAISY JONES & THE SIX or CARRIE SOTO IS BACK which are two of my favorite Taylor Jenkins Reid books but that said, it’s a great novel! full review to come as i gather my thoughts and emotions. for now, here’s what to expect: - dual timelines (past and present) - strong female characters obvi, esp our girl Joan - family themes and plots - themes on finding and discovering yourself - LOTS of astronaut/NASA talk… think: how much tennis talk there was in CARRIE SOTO IS BACK but maybe even more in NASA/space talk - HEAVY on the character development! but i think that’s true to TJR anyways - emo emo emo!!!! - what life was like for women in the 80s… especially in a male dominated field😭 - for me, this was a combo of MALIBU RISING and THE SEVEN HUSBANDS OF EVELYN HUGO and CARRIE SOTO just know—TJR never disappoints! thank you so much to Random House for the early copy!! out in June and will be worth the wait!

Yea y’all were right about this one ☝🏼 I was hesitant at first because I wasn’t really connecting to the story, but once I got to know our main character (and side characters) more, I seriously couldn’t put it down. I loved the romantic exploration & our main character’s relationship with her niece so much BUT THE FORESHADOWING TJR incorporated tore me UP I did not want to get to the end 😭 Incredible incredible incredible story (insane amount of tears were shed) & you must read it if you haven’t already

I saw someone say that this book feels TJR is breaking your heart whilst simultaneously giving you a forehead kiss and I simply couldn't agree with that more. I couldn't put this down and when I did have to I couldn't stop thinking about it, the characters were everything to me and I already miss them SO. MUCH.

review to come once I stop crying long enough to see the screen

I think this just changed my brain chemistry

done. shattered. obsessed. no notes. (but if i’m being greedy i would DIEEEE for an epilogue)

WOW! It’s pretty amazing how with every new book TJR writes, I’m somehow convinced I have a new favorite, and I think that pattern will hold true today, as I finish her latest and greatest. In a twist no one saw coming, I was emotionally invested before I hit the 5% mark, a true testament to just how incredibly talented she is at character development and the relationship building between the reader and those characters. I absolutely loved the pacing of the story. We start off with a literal bang, and then return to the past— to how it all begins. Slowly but surely, we are guided through the past and present in a way that helps us to achieve maximum understanding of the characters’ dilemma and the context of their situation, while also giving us a dog in the fight. I will admit I cried quite a few times as I grew so attached to these characters, all while knowing their potential outcome. And I am pretty darn sure my heart was in my throat for the entirety of the last chapter, as the end drew near with no obvious resolution. 🎧 The audio is absolutely spectacular, and I cannot imagine a better narrating duo than Julia Whelan and Kristen DiMercurio. They were magnificent! That said, given the intricate nature of the topic and the larger cast, I really appreciated having the book to read alongside it. I highly recommend doing an immersive read of this one if you have access to both the physical/ebook and audio. It will be well worth it. Read if you like: ▪️history of the US space program ▪️1980s setting ▪️ensemble casts ▪️strong FMCs ▪️found family ▪️sapphic romance ▪️edge-of-your-seat plot lines ▪️Kristin Hannah meets TJ Newman This book is infinity stars but Goodreads only tracks to five. When you see the 5⭐️s, just know it’s really ♾️⭐️. 🚀 Check out my Bookstagram post here! Thank you Ballantine and PRH for the gifted copies.

She grabbed my hair and rag-dolled me to the finish line 😭😭😭 5 stars easily 👏 rtc —— If TJR writes it, I’m summoned to read it 🫡 I have a good feeling about this My TJR rankings: ╰┈➤ Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo - 5 stars 🌟 ╰┈➤ One True Loves - 5 stars 🌟 ╰┈➤ After I Do - 4.5 stars 🌟 ╰┈➤ Daisy Jones and the Six - 4.5 stars 🌟 ╰┈➤ Carrie Soto is Back - 4.25 stars 🌟 ╰┈➤ Malibu rising - 4 stars 🌟 ╰┈➤ Forever, Interrupted - 4 stars 🌟 ╰┈➤ Evidence of the affair - 4 stars 🌟 ╰┈➤ Maybe in another life - TBR

i was not ready for this amount of emotional distress 🥲 pre read: WORDS CANNOT DESCRIBE HOW EXCITED I AM FOR THIS BOOK (i know this will cause me an indescribable amount of emotional distress)

WOW. I went in with no expectations & am left speechless. I couldn’t put this story down. The love story, the talk of the galaxy, the relationship between Frances & Joan — it was beautiful. This book made me feel SO MUCH. It also had one of the best love confessions I’ve read in a long time. 100/10.

Any book that makes me sob is an automatic 5 stars. Taylor Jenkins Reid's talent, passion, and imagination shine through in everything she creates. I can count on her to break my heart every single time. And will always willingly sign up for it...over and over again. Although I'm not overly fascinated by space, as an 80's baby, I grew up with a certain appreciation for the astronauts I witnessed making history in real time. Those who made it back to share their stories, and especially those who didn't. As with so many of TJR's books this all felt so real. It felt like a true behind the scenes look into what it was like for those who were creating history in the 1980's at NASA. Atmosphere: A Love Story was just that. So much love. Whether it be forbidden, unconventional, passionate, found family, or even lost love. Love is love and always a story worth telling. "Because people never fall in love with who they should. This whole world is full of stories of people falling in love with exactly who they weren’t supposed to." It would be hard to do this book justice by trying to sum it up in a few words. I could go on and on. Profound + perfect come to mind first. The only thing that would make Atmosphere better is if the screen adaptation were already complete! ♾️⭐️

now that is a great book.

had to sit and stare at the wall while dissociating and crying for a while after

4.5 ⭐️ Did I want a little more space talk? Yes! But outside of that personal nerd preference, I really loved this book. I loved the characters and development and the plot. Also, do the audio bc Julia Whelan!

Oh my God that was one of the most incredibly written books I've ever read. I knew this was going to hit me hard because I am obsessed with space and NASA. Throw in a queer romance story and I'm FINISHED. I am sobbing. Taylor Jenkins Reid has to be one of the most emotionally intelligent human beings alive. I am so grateful I got an ARC of this book. I'm going to be promoting the fuck out of this book.

I am struggling to find the words for this book. I am a crime and thriller girl through and through, but Tears historical fiction books are a must read for me. When Atmosphere arrived in my doorstep I knew that I was going to devour it and I did. I started and finished it in a day, completely lost in the 1980s space program and the lives of these amazing people. I have not had my heart ripped out by a book in a.very long time, but Atmosphere had me ugly crying on the train at night. These characters are just so real and I felt like part of their world. The Walt 80’s doesn’t seem that long ago for me, and yet so much has changed in attitudes and culture since then, in a good way. I was so torn up for these characters, in particular the females, who had to fight for everything because it wasn’t the done thing. I loved Joan so much, she was one tough cookie. And her nieces Frances, what a wonderful little girl. I would love to see a book in the future of grown up Frances. Now there is alot of space in this book, but it is about the space program and astronauts so you expect that. I was fascinated learning all about how it all happened and the training that went into getting to go to space. I will certainly see the night sky differently now. Just go into this book and enjoy the experience. There is so much to love about this book words can’t do it justice. Thanks you so much to Penguin Books Australia for my early copy to read. It comes out on June 3rd and is a must read .

「 ✦“Being human was such a lonely endeavor. We alone have consciousness; we are the only intelligent life force that we know of in the galaxy. We have no one but one another.”✦ 」 This story takes us back to the 80s and we meet Joan, a young woman passionate about space, the stars, the universe and the belief in the power of something superior that connects us all for generations and generations, who manages to enter NASA and become part of the first group of female astronauts, while at the same time she meets people who become her found family and goes through a moment of self-discovery and realizes who she has been all this time. 「 ✦“Well, we are the stars. And the stars are us. Every atom in our bodies was once out there. Was once a part of them. To look at the night sky is to look at pars of who you once were, who you may one day be.”✦ 」 .・。.・゜♡・ꨄ・♡・゜・。. The story is divided into two timelines. One takes you to December 29, 1984, on the STS-LR9 mission, where Joan works from the Control Tower and is in charge of maintaining communication between the team sent into space and the team down in Houston. Quickly, what seems like a brief and easy mission spirals out of control, and now Joan must deal with the outcome and put herself to test. Right at what appears to be a climactic moment of the mission, the story flashes back a few years and you go with Joan through her induction and training at NASA, where she meets the rest of her team, different and wonderful people who understand her and give greater meaning to the word family, especially Vanessa Ford, an aspiring astronaut, just like her, who catches her eye from the start by seeming so cool, focused and unapproachable. 「 ✦“The last person to dash in, just before Antonio began to speak, was Vanessa Ford. Her curly hair was pulled back, her posture was tall and straight, her shoulders broad. She took off her sunglasses and tucked them into her shirt pocket, with her eyes narrow, her jaw tight. And the thought that went through Joan’s head was: That’s an astronaut.”✦ 」 As the book goes on, we also see more of her family dynamics. We don't see much of her parents. But we do meet Barbara, her self-centered sister, and Frances, her niece (and, I'd say, the love of Joan's life and Joan's motivation for most things). 「 ✦“But to love Frances was to be always saying goodbye to the girl Frances used to be and falling in love again with the girl Frances was becoming.”✦ 」 .・。.・゜♡・ꨄ・♡・゜・。. With this book, I confirm my belief that TJR's main strength in her writing is how well she creates her characters. She not only focuses on the main characters, but also gives you a very diverse range of secondary characters who support the plot very well and give shape and realism to her stories. The way she writes, switching between the past and the present, is a common factor in her stories. She gives you a glimpse of the current situation, leaves you hooked, wanting more, and just at that moment, she takes you back to the past so you know everything that led the main character to that point. In this book, that technique works wonderfully, and even knowing what's happening in the '84 mission, you can't help but grow attached to the characters, appreciate them, and be saddened because you know what will ultimately happen to each of them. This book is a work of art: absolutely bittersweet but beautiful. book playlist •galileo by indigo girls •sidelines by phoebe bridgers •this time tomorrow by brandi carlile •power of two by indigo girls •heroes by david bowie ⋆˚࿔ pre-reading 𝜗𝜚˚⋆ 🪐🌌 I will read anything this woman writes because she's THAT GOOD and what a better way to do it than buddy reading it with my girl, fellow tjr enthusiast and bestie lea 🦋🎐💙✨

ੈ♡˳ rating: 5/5 stars ੈ♡˳ summary: joan goodwin has always known her destiny lies in the stars. as one of nasa’s first female astronauts in the 1980s, she’s trained for everything—except falling for a fellow astronaut. balancing ambition, duty, and the terrifying beauty of space, joan’s journey becomes one of self-discovery, heartbreak, and the kind of love that changes your entire orbit. ੈ♡˳ thoughts: this book was everything. i’ve missed taylor jenkins reid so much and atmosphere is exactly what i’ve been craving. joan?? she owned me. she was complex and flawed and painfully real—ambitious but human, strong but not invincible. her story didn’t just feel like a love story, it felt like a life story. the way the book explored space as both a physical place and a metaphor for isolation, grief, and hope? insane. i was clinging to every page. and frances??? literally mvp. her dynamic with joan was just as impactful as the romantic subplot, if not more. i want a whole book about her. joan and vanessa’s relationship had me in my feels. soft but powerful. subtle but undeniable. it never felt like a forced romance, but something inevitable—written in the stars (literally). this book isn’t just a romance. it’s about legacy. about chasing big dreams. about what it means to come back down to earth after you’ve been to the edge of the universe. i cried, i highlighted, i stared at the wall after finishing. ੈ♡˳ tropes: ꕥ women in stem ꕥ sapphic romance ꕥ found family ꕥ ambition vs. love ꕥ grief and healing ꕥ slow burn ꕥ love through time ੈ♡˳ fave quotes: ➼ “but i want to go somewhere so few people have ever gone that you could name them all—and when people do name them, i want them to name me.” ➼ “being human was such a lonely endeavor. we alone have consciousness; we are the only intelligent life force that we know of in the galaxy. we have no one but one another.” ➼ “because the world had decided that to be soft was to be weak, even though in joan’s experience being soft and flexible was always more durable than being hard and brittle.” ➼ “i can’t imagine you ever being lonely,” she said. “i can’t imagine that everyone’s not begging to stand next to you all the time.” ➼ “i can wake up every single day and choose you, over and over and over again… i will seek you out. i will spend the rest of my life, if i get that lucky, seeking you out.” ⸻ this one is going on my i will think about this forever shelf. it’s not just about space—it’s about the people who risk it all to reach for more, and the ones who tether them back to earth.

Can’t. Stop. Crying. 😧🫨😰😭🥺 I have been thinking HARD about my review for this book, and honestly, I can’t think of anything to say that even begins to express my absolute love for this book. But I can say: TJR, I could read your words forever ♾️💖🌟 I was emotionally invested in this story all the way from the Author’s note (🥹) at the beginning, right until the very last word (🥺) This book has SO much going for it, but most of all, it is about true, and pure LOVE that comes in many different forms. These incredibly brave, and memorable, characters show us HOW to do that. 🥰💖🌟 ‘The world would not care for her and Vanessa as they cared for each other.’ 🥺 That is all from me, for now… 🔭✨🚀🌌🛰️👩🏼‍🚀💖 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟

sobbed for 40 minutes straight at the end and am now in dire need to call all my loved ones, that’s what this book will do to you

THIS is what I want to read when I pick up a Romance book. I know TJR books aren’t technically Romance, but they are MY Romance books. The perfect balance of romance and story. No cringey moments. No dialogue that feels off. Just a genuine story with believable connection. The romance is never the sole focus. Adapt every single book into a movie or a show yesterday. She’s so good at writing and every story is unique!!!! Also space is so in….Atmosphere by TJR, Artemis II seeing the dark side of the moon, Project Hail Mary adapted into a movie, and Super Mario Galaxy in theaters….

5,000 perfect stars!!!!!!!!!! TJR is forever my favorite author!

All the stars in the galaxy for this incredible book that grabbed my heart in so many ways. These characters came to life in a way only TJR can do.🌟🚀 Joan Goodwin is an astronomer turned astronaut in the early 1980s. She has to work harder than everyone else in the room to become one of the first female astronauts at NASA. The story is told in a dual timeline, beginning with a space mission in December 1984 that goes sideways. That fateful mission is threaded throughout the novel with Joan's background story of what got her on that spaceship. This novel is about more than space. It is about a woman's journey through key years of her life, the choices she makes, the obstacles she faces, her job at NASA and her coworkers, the people she loves, and self-discovery and acceptance. I loved the exploration of the existence of God and science and that they can co-exist. A person can believe in both. Joan's relationships with her sister, her niece, and who she loves are the main focus of the story. I loved Joan's relationship with her niece Frances so much. Joan loved her fiercely and openly, which was juxtaposed with her romantic relationship that she had to keep hidden and close to the vest in the 1980s. Taylor Jenkins Reid is a master at character development and creating richly layered characters that grab your heart and don't let go. This book cracked me open and put me back together with its gravitational pull. You don't want to leave its orbit, and you want to stay with the incredible characters after the last page. My only critique is that the book would have been made better with an epilogue as the ending seemed somewhat abrupt. That said, I was able to create the ending I wanted, which could be what TJR had in mind. All I know is that you should run to get this book. These characters will live rent-free in my mind for a long time to come.

4.5⭐️ I will be thinking about this book for a long time to come. TJR character work is honestly masterful! The way I cared about Joan, Vanessa and Frances you would think I actually knew these people! The lump in my throat and the pain in my chest were very real whilst reading this story! I will read anything TJR writes! A must read!

Sometimes I'm a book snob. A stupid book snob, it turns out. I've never read Nora Roberts before. Never. I guess I assumed any author who wrote so fast and was so popular would be shallow and formulaic. Nightwork blew that stupid assumption away. Now I know Nora Roberts is popular because she's an excellent writer! The first sentence drew me in. When he was nine, and his mother had her first deadly dance with cancer, he became a thief. Not as sad as it sounds, because the love between the boy, his mother and her sister, turns the story of his early years into an uplifting story of family coping with bad times with humor, determination, and work. That's what being a thief is to Harry. Work. His real life is carefully separated from his night work. I can't say much more without spoilers. Bottom line, a captivating romantic suspense and so much fun to read.

Awesome story. Different flavor than what we are used to from Roberts but addictive! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ For me, the sign of an awesome author is one who changes the tide of the story with such subtlety that you do not even realize it is happening. This story starts out with an unusual main character for a Roberts story. A guy. A kid really and we are with him as he tells his story and grows. He educates himself in ways we cannot believe. He loves hard and works hard. He protects what and who he loves always. He continues to learn and grow. With precise steps, the suspense begins to build and the story changes subtly. You begin to realize who the master craftsman really is. Once again you are captured by a story that begs you to finish as quickly as you can while not missing a single sentence. Roberts develops her characters beautifully and the story really is in the intricate details. While it seems to start slowly, the build-up and the ending make it worth the wait! Awesome twist. * copy received for review consideration * Full review - https://amidlifewife.com/nightwork-by...

Oh, the journey this book and I went on. I loved Booth/Harry! His moral code reminded me of early Dexter... but with less death ;) I also loved the Red Goddess of the story. Megs, Dauphine, Sebastian... I loved the theatre kids both in college and at the high school. I loved the New Orleans vibe. It was the best-described setting in the entire book. I was a bit sad that there was somewhat less description and feel for the rest of the book's locations. I wanted more about the houses, security system, and overall operating procedures. LaPorte was easy to hate, but in later portions of the book, he was less dimensional as a character, as where his henchmen. I have THREE major issues with this novel. The first: The card reading by Dauphine was kept close at hand for me whenever events would unfurl but the book seemed to have forgotten or completely ignored many of the predictions by the end. Such as the "big job" advice and the romantic stances that ended up negative. This also irked me when Booth was back in the Bayou and Dauphine does not even bring it up. This was a huge missed opportunity to me. The second is that (view spoiler) The third issue I had was with Harry/Booth's name changes. He is hiding out from someone, but he picks new names that he has used variations of before, as well as names of associates known to LaPorte. This seemed ridiculous, and there's no way that he wouldn't have been easily found with available resources that would have been tracking names. Overall, I really don't know what to rate this book. There were a few major issues for me, but I spent so long with it and had it seep into my life. I loved Booth. I guess I can't completely overlook those issues, so I will go with a 4-4.5 star rating. In the end, I enjoyed it enough that it will stay with me, so I will round it up to a 5.

This was fantastic. Remarkable. Terrific. Outstanding. Phenomenal. And yes, a little far-fetched and unbelievable. But I read for that. That amazing feeling and that bit of fancy. This had it all. Nora Roberts is just the Queen of Romance and I am always in awe of her stories. I got so swept up in this story. The past, the present and even the future. The people, the settings. My heart raced and broke. I was excited and I was scared. I was also head over heels in love. I can't even find a fault and I am sure there were a few, I just loved it. Every single page.

Thank you to the publisher for my review copy. All opinions are my own. Nora is always a win for me. I swear. 15 years ago I was saying the same thing. This title was no different. Nora writes male characters so very well. I really enjoyed the premise of this one. It was very well done and the subject was fascinating.

As a die-hard fan, I’m always on the lookout for new book releases of Nora Roberts and though lately there have been more misses than hits, Nightwork did not disappoint. From the get-go, I loved Harry Booth. He snuck in my heart and stayed there. I empathized so much with him, over the huge responsibility he shouldered, what he took upon himself to try to pay the bills and take care of his mother. How can you fault him his choices? I loved how the author portrayed him from a child to a teen to a young man, and as an adult. Harry Booth already had the maturity of an adult at a very young age but you could see the difference in age and experience as we followed his journey into adulthood. The period of his life when he first met Miranda had me chuckling over how she baffled him. He needed that upheaval in his life. I can go on and on over how much I loved this book and it will still not be enough. This story right here, is why I love Nora Roberts’ books so much. Her ability to craft a poignant story, with compelling characters, vivid descriptions, dashes of dark humor here and there, a deep abiding love, passion, intrigue, and an apt ending leaves me in awe. Thanks to the publisher St Martin’s Press and NetGalley for the e-ARC in exchange for an honest review. Stay tuned. ∼Lyn Posted on Nomadic Worlds

Actual rating: 4.5 stars, rounded up. Nightwork is radically different than anything else Nora has ever written. At least, so it seems to me. Here, we follow one man over the course of his life, first meeting him as a nine-year-old boy. A boy who immediately won my heart, by the way. And we follow him throughout the next more than twenty years of his life. Through his eyes, we see the hidden world of privately-owned art and experience the terrifying highs of thievery and all of the research and legwork that goes into the theft itself. We experience great love and great loss and the support of family both blood-bound and life-found. We feel what it is to be hunted, but we also experience the beauties and wonders of the world through the chase. We feel a thirst for knowledge and what it’s like to move past sating your own thirst and into feeding other hungry minds with what you’ve learned. And we experience redemption, revenge, second chances and ultimate justice. Nora gives us so much with this one character. Harry Booth is a brilliant, sympathetic, incredibly multifaceted character, and I thoroughly enjoyed following him on his journey though life. I fell for him and his thirsty mind immediately. He’s one of those kids that I wished desperately I could pluck from the pages of his story and give him an easier one, but he truly made the most of the hand he had been dealt. I really loved seeing the world through his eyes, as he never seemed to become jaded in spite of all he had faced. His love of new cultures and languages, of literature and theater, were beautiful and charming and made me want to go back to school, as well. And the boy (and the man he grew into) had such marvelously nimble fingers and quick feet to go with that razor-sharp mind. I can’t believe I was rooting so strongly for a thief, but here we are. He was amazing at it, and his strict rules and morals even in the midst of his thievery made him incredibly easy to sympathize with. I absolutely loved this story, but there were a couple of issues that kept me from giving it a solid 5 star rating instead of the 4.5 stars I settled on. First of all, the love interest didn’t feel nearly as multidimensional as the protagonist. Which is unusual in Nora’s writing. She was presented as being full of character and charm, but it was more of a case of being told it was so instead of being shown. Everyone in the story loved her, but she never quite won me over, though I definitely didn’t dislike her, by any means. My second issue was that the ending felt somehow too rushed and too tidy. Very rarely do I think a book would have benefited from an additional 50 pages or so, but I felt that the final caper and resolution just didn’t have quite enough room to breathe. But other than those two small issues, I thought the book was exquisite. Yet again we see Nora straying from the formula that served her so well for so long, and it’s delightful to see her stretch and grow. I loved not knowing exactly where the story was heading while still being assured that everything would turn out alright. People sleep on Nora. They discount her work because she publishes so often, or they discount her as a romance author or someone whose work they just wouldn’t be interested in. But she’s such a beautiful writer, y’all. Within the first couple of pages of Nightwork, she had me falling in love with this 9 year old boy and wishing I could reach through the pages to help him and his mom because his story was breaking my heart. Within the first two or three pages. No joke. She’s just so good as quickly but deeply developing these characters and giving them authentic voices that charm you immediately. And the writing itself is so much lovelier than most imagine. I’ve read literary authors who have nothing on her style and ease of prose. It speaks clearly, emotes deeply, and draws in readers instantly. She has a true gift with words, a gift that is often discounted by the public because of the types of stories (they believe) she tells and speed at which she produces them. If you’ve never read Nora, I beg you to give her a chance. And if you should choose to do so, Nightwork is a beautiful place to start.

Emotional, with intricate plots and witty characters. Listening to the audiobook narrated by Will Damron made it twice as good.

Loved it - as always. Although it felt a bit slow and 'old' this time. Old as in... was it written in 1987?? And I still don't like how Nora lets her Nora characters talk like her JD Robb ones. It's sounds so weird. Why doesn't she change that a bit???

What a cast of characters! This was well written has you from the first sentence...When he was nine, and his mother had her first deadly dance with cancer, he became a thief. Talk about setting the stage for a Rollercoaster of a story. Thanks to #noraroberts #stmartinspress #nightwork

WOW, WOW! I have no shame in being a big Nora Roberts fan. Say what you will (and yes, sometimes people are like..really Nora Roberts?), but she knows how to write a very good story. One of the things I adore about Roberts is her ability to weave all the elements I love into a tightly crafted tale. I get to experience a range of emotions from worried, curiosity, laughter and even getting close to getting choked up. Nightwork is the perfect example of her writing at its finest. Our story centers on Harry Booth. He started stealing at nine to keep a roof over his ailing mother’s head, slipping into luxurious, empty homes at night to find items he could trade for precious cash. When his mother finally succumbed to cancer, he left Chicago―but kept up his nightwork, developing into a master thief with a code of honor and an expertise in not attracting attention?or getting attached. Here's what I loved: - I loved Harry, I loved hearing about him growing up and why he did what he did. I loved all of the characters. - I loved the theatre in this book, It made this theatre nerd very happy. - I loved Harry's Aunt, what a fabulous woman! - I enjoy all the Coca- Cola mentions in this book ( In every Nora Roberts book, she always writes about coke) - I love Miranda, she is very much a Nora Robert’s heroine. - In the last 2 stand alone novels ( Hideaway, Legacy ) she had the 2 leads meet as kids, I was worried that she was going to that from now on, in Night Work, they meet as adults.. I really appreciated that. What I didn't love - I felt like some of it was drawn out,But I loved Harry and loved hearing about his life. - I don't love sex scenes, But it's a Nora Roberts book.. It's pretty much guaranteed, But the scenes were short and were tasteful.

I’d heard SUCH mixed reviews on this book before starting it so I’m SO pleasantly surprised that I LOVEDDDDD IT!! I always love Emily Henry’s romances but I especially loved Margaret’s story (which I know a lot of people found to move slow). This book truly felt like an Emily Henry rom com 🤝 meets The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo. AND THE ENDING! Never ever saw it coming. I teared up twice 😭 soooo good. And of course I loved the romance 💗🤭 a new top 3 Emily Henry book

There was a point when I was reading this where I had to put the book down and physically pace but I was on an airplane, so I walked up and down the aisle like a caged animal. HAYDEN!!!! ALICE!!!!! I love them.

(official rtc)but I am spiralling after reading this. The setting and descriptions are sooo classic EmHen but this was so different to her other books (80% plot, 20% romance) and I low key ate it up. Personally loved it. Potentially one of my favourites???

★★★★★ “𝗧𝗵𝗲 𝗼𝗻𝗹𝘆 𝘄𝗮𝘆 𝘁𝗼 𝗴𝗲𝘁 𝗮 𝗽𝗲𝗿𝘀𝗼𝗻’𝘀 𝗳𝘂𝗹𝗹, 𝘂𝗻𝗳𝗶𝗹𝘁𝗲𝗿𝗲𝗱 𝘀𝘁𝗼𝗿𝘆 𝗶𝘀 𝘁𝗼 𝗹𝗲𝘁 𝘁𝗵𝗲𝗺 𝘁𝗲𝗹𝗹 𝗶𝘁 𝘁𝗼 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝘄𝗵𝗲𝗻 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗵𝗼𝘄 𝘁𝗵𝗲𝘆 𝘄𝗮𝗻𝘁. 𝗧𝗵𝗲 𝗯𝗲𝘀𝘁 𝘀𝘁𝗼𝗿𝗶𝗲𝘀 𝗮𝗿𝗲 𝗯𝗼𝗿𝗻 𝘄𝗵𝗲𝗻 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝘄𝗼𝗿𝗱𝘀 𝘀𝗹𝗶𝗽 𝗲𝗳𝗳𝗼𝗿𝘁𝗹𝗲𝘀𝘀𝗹𝘆 𝗳𝗿𝗼𝗺 𝗮 𝘀𝘂𝗯𝗷𝗲𝗰𝘁’𝘀 𝗹𝗶𝗽𝘀, 𝗿𝗮𝘁𝗵𝗲𝗿 𝘁𝗵𝗮𝗻 𝗯𝗲𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗽𝗮𝗶𝗻𝗳𝘂𝗹𝗹𝘆 𝗰𝗿𝗮𝗻𝗸𝗲𝗱 𝗼𝘂𝘁 𝗼𝗳 𝘁𝗵𝗲𝗺 𝗯𝗶𝘁 𝗯𝘆 𝗯𝗶𝘁.” I just finished reading this masterpiece, and I am not the same girl at all. I have such mixed feelings, a weird emotion I've never felt before when writing a book review. Emily Henry somehow pulled me inside the story, making it feel like a puzzle. Sometimes it was blurry, other times crystal clear, but when you finish, you take a long inhale because the puzzle you followed is a masterpiece. It’s not just one story, but two. The first is a huge, sprawling narrative about Margaret Ives' family and her love life. It was a heavy story, and I felt everything—boredom, excitement, shock, and a sadness that shattered my heart into pieces. The second is a beautiful love story between the protagonists, Hayden Anderson and Alice Scott, a story that made my heart flutter with butterflies. These two stories aren’t separate; they’re like the sky and the sea, mirroring each other perfectly. “𝗧𝗵𝗲𝗿𝗲’𝘀 𝗮𝗻 𝗼𝗹𝗱 𝘀𝗮𝘆𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗮𝗯𝗼𝘂𝘁 𝘀𝘁𝗼𝗿𝗶𝗲𝘀, 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗵𝗼𝘄 𝘁𝗵𝗲𝗿𝗲 𝗮𝗿𝗲 𝗮𝗹𝘄𝗮𝘆𝘀 𝘁𝗵𝗿𝗲𝗲 𝘃𝗲𝗿𝘀𝗶𝗼𝗻𝘀 𝗼𝗳 𝘁𝗵𝗲𝗺: 𝘆𝗼𝘂𝗿𝘀, 𝗺𝗶𝗻𝗲, 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝘁𝗿𝘂𝘁𝗵.” This adage perfectly encapsulates the interwoven narratives of Hayden and Alice, two journalists tasked with writing a book about the legendary Margaret Ives, a project that is also a critical job opportunity. Her life, a sweeping saga from her influential father to her marriage to the enigmatic Cosmos Sinclair, is a story within a story, laced with a mystery that kept me on the edge of my seat. The author skillfully builds suspense, leading to two shocking revelations at the end, while simultaneously crafting a palpable chemistry between Hayden and Alice. Hayden, a skeptical journalist and freelancer, initially views the Margaret Ives project as a means to secure his next job. However, his protective streak and keen observational skills soon draw him into the story, and into Alice’s orbit. He's a refreshing departure from typical romantic heroes, and I particularly loved the dynamic between him and Alice; both tall, intelligent, and completely complementing each other, a welcome change from the "tiny woman, big man" trope so prevalent in romance. The electric tension between them was undeniable, especially in moments like their table encounter. Alice, an optimistic and empathetic soul, is equally invested in the project, seeing it as a chance to prove herself. Her genuine curiosity about Hayden and her quiet victories whenever he spoke her name, or revealed his emotions, were beautifully rendered. Their connection is punctuated by poignant moments, like when Hayden reveals his feelings with a simple, “Tell me something no one knows about you,” followed by, “I’m in love with you.” Or, the vulnerable moment when he admits, “I think I don’t like people looking at me,” only to clarify, with his eyes fixed on her, “Not you.” These moments are raw and real, highlighting the depth of their connection, and are made more impactful by the stakes of their job opportunity. “𝗠𝗮𝘆𝗯𝗲 𝗹𝗼𝘃𝗲 𝘄𝗮𝘀 𝗮𝗹𝘄𝗮𝘆𝘀 𝗮 𝗴𝗶𝗳𝘁. 𝗧𝗵𝗲 𝗼𝗻𝗹𝘆 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝘁𝗵𝗮𝘁 𝗰𝗼𝘂𝗹𝗱𝗻’𝘁 𝗯𝗲 𝗯𝗼𝘂𝗴𝗵𝘁 𝗼𝗿 𝘀𝗼𝗹𝗱 𝗼𝗿 𝗯𝗮𝗿𝘁𝗲𝗿𝗲𝗱 𝗳𝗼𝗿.” This sentiment echoes throughout "Great Big Beautiful Life," a novel where love, sacrifice, and the search for truth intertwine. Emily Henry masterfully develops the tension between Hayden and Alice, a slow burn that captivated my heart, even if it required a touch of patience at the beginning. This deliberate pacing, while initially testing my attention, ultimately proved rewarding, allowing the characters' connection to deepen organically. The narrative unfolds as a dual story, each with its own distinct emotional weight. Margaret Ives emerges as a hero in her own right, her life a testament to sacrifice and resilience. The saga of her wealthy family, steeped in intrigue, and her legendary love story with the famous singer, Cosmos Sinclair, is a tale worthy of being passed down through generations. This narrative, rich in historical depth and emotional complexity, serves as a compelling backdrop for Hayden and Alice's present-day investigation. Emily's skillful navigation between these two timelines is a testament to her storytelling prowess. The mystery surrounding Margaret Ives' life, slowly unraveled by Hayden and Alice, creates a constant sense of suspense, driving the plot forward. The revelations at the end, while shocking, are meticulously foreshadowed, making them feel both surprising and inevitable. The slow, deliberate development of Hayden and Alice's relationship, contrasted with the sweeping drama of Margaret's life, creates a dynamic tension that keeps the reader engaged. The initial moments of boredom were replaced with a deep investment in both narratives. 𝗪𝗵𝗮𝘁 𝗱𝗼 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗱𝗼 𝘄𝗵𝗲𝗻 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗹𝗶𝘃𝗲 𝗶𝗻 𝗮 𝘄𝗼𝗿𝗹𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗮𝘁 𝘄𝗮𝘀 𝗯𝘂𝗶𝗹𝘁 𝗮𝗿𝗼𝘂𝗻𝗱 𝘆𝗼𝘂, 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝘀𝗼 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗳𝗶𝗻𝗱 𝘆𝗼𝘂𝗿𝘀𝗲𝗹𝗳 𝘁𝗿𝗮𝗽𝗽𝗲𝗱, 𝗹𝗶𝗸𝗲 𝗼𝗻𝗲 𝘀𝗲𝗻𝘁𝗲𝗻𝗰𝗲 𝗶𝗻 𝗮 𝗺𝘆𝘁𝗵, 𝗼𝗻𝗲 𝗯𝗿𝗶𝗰𝗸 𝗶𝗻 𝗮 𝘄𝗮𝗹𝗹, 𝘄𝗵𝗲𝗻 𝘆𝗼𝘂’𝗿𝗲 𝗯𝘂𝗶𝗹𝘁 𝗶𝗻𝘁𝗼 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗳𝗮𝗯𝗿𝗶𝗰 𝗼𝗳 𝗮 𝗽𝗹𝗮𝗰𝗲 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝘁𝗵𝗮𝘁 𝗽𝗹𝗮𝗰𝗲 𝘄𝗮𝘀 𝗯𝘂𝗶𝗹𝘁 𝘁𝗼 𝗸𝗲𝗲𝗽 𝗲𝘃𝗲𝗿𝘆𝗼𝗻𝗲 𝗼𝘂𝘁? The power of truth, the enduring nature of love, and the fragile beauty of trust are the cornerstones of "Great Big Beautiful Life." Emily Henry weaves these themes into the very fabric of her narrative, exploring their complexities through the lives of her characters. For Hayden and Alice, the search for the truth about Margaret Ives becomes a journey of self-discovery, where trust is both hard-won and essential. The theme of loss, particularly the loss of a father, is handled with delicate sensitivity. As someone who lost their own father at a young age, I felt a deep connection to Alice's relationship with her late father. The quiet understanding and unspoken bond they shared, as you described, echoed my own experience, bringing tears to my eyes. This portrayal of grief is not melodramatic, but rather a poignant exploration of the enduring impact of loss and the quiet strength it can foster. 𝗣.𝗦. The writing style in is undeniably engaging, drawing the reader into the story with a seamless blend of wit, emotional depth, and vivid description. The fresh, vibrant atmosphere of the small island setting provided the perfect backdrop for a love story intertwined with a compelling detective narrative. Emily's ability to create a palpable sense of place allowed me to fully immerse myself in the story, feeling the island's gentle breezes and experiencing the characters' emotional journeys as if they were my own. Pre_read: *I'm taking a leap of faith with this one,my hopes are hanging by a thread.(And I'm not a fan of these kind of covers! Where have the cover designers been lately?)

im really quite taken with this. while i wouldnt recommend it as EHs best romance novel, i would say its her best story with a great big beautiful heart. which is why im so surprised. “happy place” is my least favorite EH book specifically because the romance takes a back seat to other life themes and dynamics - its more chick lit than romance. which is also how i would describe this book, but this particular storyline does it so much better. there is such a wonderful balance between personal life topics and the growing affection between two people. i really enjoyed the natural pacing of both the bond forming between alice and hayden and also of their own personal growth. the writing structure and plot are perfect vehicles for showcasing the best of, not just two characters, but of two humans. i was fully invested in them, their goals, and just wanted the best for them. so while i would say “beach read” or “book lovers” are still EHs best romance stories, this is probably her best life story. ↠ 4.5 stars

hey ya so … 6 stars. i will re read this easily 100 times, this is my death bed book.

sobbing… with actual hiccups. a freaking masterpiece, if you’d asked me.

Alice Scott dreams of one day being a celebrated writer. Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer Hayden Anderson already is. When the two compete for the chance to write the history of celebrity heiress Margaret Ives, a woman who has been missing for decades, they have no idea the repercussions Margaret, her story, and the competition will have on their own lives. I admit that when I started this book, I felt completely thrown off by how different it is from EmHen’s previous books. I went in expecting a romcom that would grab me immediately and never let me go. What I ended up getting was very different. And yet, by the time I reached the final page, I loved it all the same. This book is described as contemporary fiction; however, I would argue it is way more in line with historical fiction. As we learn about Margaret Ives and her family, alongside journalist Alice, we view them through the eyes of their historical context, from the very beginnings of their economic origin story through to the present. It’s rich in character detail, emotion, and connections, a classic aspect of the HF novel, as well as the twists that will catch you completely off guard. If you are a fan of character-driven, historical fiction novels, this book will appeal to you. And yet, as Henry is so well known for, the underlying romance woven in throughout the story, both in the past and present, is as swoon-worthy as it gets. I find myself enamored with each and every MMC, and while Alex (from the People We Meet on Vacation) will always be my favorite of her heroes, Hayden sure does come close. The push and pull between our present-day MCs only helped to up the ante, and the angst, as the ending began to draw near, with any possible future together so much in doubt. The chemistry between Hayden and Alice was smoking hot, with so many amazing scenes between the two, and yet the romance never does overshadow Margaret’s story, which is really the heart of the story. Instead, it serves as a perfect juxtaposition to the ghosts from the past - mistakes made that could never be undone. As the story reached its inevitable conclusion, I was thoroughly impressed with how well Henry brought every single aspect of the story full circle. Although everything is not wrapped up into the most perfect bow (historical fiction novels rarely do), we are treated to the happy ending these characters deserved, in true romance fashion. 🎧 Julia Whelan narrates, need I say more? While I started out reading this one solely with my eyes, I found myself preferring a fully immersive read (listening to the audio, while reading along with the ebook). This allowed me to experience JW bringing the characters fully to life, while not missing a single precious detail. I highly recommend doing an immersive read of this book if you are able to. Read if you like: ▪️historical Fiction ▪️genre mashups ▪️multigenerational family sagas ▪️books about books ▪️competing journalists ▪️past/present timeline ▪️Evelyn Hugo (TJR) ✨ 2025 Favorites Check out my IG post here! Thank you Berkley Pub, PRH Audio, and Libro.fm for the advanced copies.

Ok I have SO MANY thoughts and feelings on this one. Ahhh! Proper review to come. And maybe a video because like I said, so many thoughts and feelings 😂 I read all six of Emily Henry’s adult books so I could analyze why her work is so incredibly polarizing: https://youtu.be/JRfFLKrV7ww Thank you to Libro.fm for the influencer copy! Emily Henry’s latest book is my favourite of hers to date! While I wouldn’t necessarily consider myself a fan of her work overall (my reactions to her books have been all over the place) there’s something compelling about her characters that keeps me coming back to give her another try. This time, it was the protagonist, Alice, who stole the show! She’s endearing and sweet and so very real, and I loved watching her journey unfold. That’s what sets this book apart from The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo, a comparison I keep seeing. Here, Alice - a young writer - is the main character. Not the elderly, famous woman telling her life story. This isn’t a book about Margaret, though I appreciated learning about her life told through alternating chapters. This is Alice’s story: her career, her grief, her dreams, family, and life. Is this a perfect book for me, or an all-time favourite? No. There were a few choices near the end that irked me, and I wish they had been handled differently. But there were enough moments of clarity and emotional resonance for me to round up to five stars. Is the message especially complex or unique? No. But I think it’s worth writing about, even in its simplicity. Hold your loved ones close. Learn history and apply its lessons. Open lines of communication. Assert your needs and boundaries, and extend the same in return. Spend time with people while you can. Chase joy. Share stories of those you’ve lost to keep their memory alive. A book doesn’t have to say something new to say something important - and it doesn’t have to be great literature to move you. Not everyone will love this story. It’s more literary/women’s fiction than romance, and I can see the prose falling flat for some (though I think it’s EH’s best yet - perhaps not a terribly high bar, but alas). But if this book finds you at the right time, the way it found me, you might just feel seen and understood in a way that fills your cup when you need it most. I happened to read this book just a few weeks before losing my father, and this book captured so much of what I’ve been feeling exactly when I needed it. Content Warnings: abuse, cults, starvation, death, grief, fatal car accident, loss of partner & parents, divorce, adoption You can find me on... Youtube | Instagram | TikTok You can join our book club over on Patreon... PBB Book Club

♾️ ⭐️ Let me say this with my whole chest: Great Big Beautiful Life is a masterpiece Maybe love was always a gift. The only thing that couldn’t be bought or sold or bartered for. WHAT TO EXPECT ✨ women's fiction / historical fiction / romance / mystery ✨ small beach town setting ✨ two competing writers ✨ rivals to lovers ✨ grumpy x sunshine ✨ opposite attract ✨ longing / pining ✨ 2/5 spice 🌶️ ✨ hurt / comfort ✨ dealing with grief ✨ third MC - famous socialist ✨ generational and family drama ✨ dual timelines ✨ HEA My Thoughts: Audiobook rating: 5 ⭐️ Story rating: 5 ⭐️ If you enjoyed Beach Reads by Emily Henry and The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid, definitely read this book! I don’t even know where to start because Great Big Beautiful Life completely wrecked me in the best way possible. I expected romance, but this book gave me so much more. There was love, grief, identity, history, mystery…all of it wrapped up in Emily Henry's signature beautiful writing. It might be my favorite EH book to date. So what did I love??? EVERYTHING! But let’s talk about Alice and Hayden first, because I am OBSESSED. They’re both writers, competing to tell the story of the famous 'tabloid princess' turned recluse, Margaret Ives. And even though they’re technically rivals, they have instant chemistry. It’s not loud or flashy, but it’s there in every little look, every line of dialogue, and only grows with time. Cue the tension. And as they continue to cross paths, there's a gentle understanding of each other that makes them feel seen. Cue the longing. *sighs wistfully* But what really got me? How vulnerable they are with each other. Especially Hayden. For someone who seems all grumpy and serious, this man falls HARD and fast. And he’s not afraid to say it. He straight-up tells Alice he loves her, without expecting anything in return. 🥹 Like??? I was not okay! Alice falls too, but she’s sunshine-y and open-hearted in a way where it makes sense, so I kind of expect her to catch feelings. But Hayden? He’s harder to read, and that makes it hit so much deeper. He’d do anything for her. He loves her so deeply and fully and selflessly. Soulmate level shit. And yes, there’s definitely spice!! I honestly don’t understand how anyone could say otherwise. Maybe it’s not constant, but it’s definitely there. The tension leading up to those scenes was immaculate, and when the heat finally drops? HOT and pretty explicit. That storm scene, when they're all alone in the dark? I was totally melting. 🥵 Alice’s grief and her relationship with her mom added another layer to this story. Watching her navigate loss and finally reconnect with her mother was so touching. It wasn’t the focus of the book, but it hit hard. And then… Margaret. Oh my god. Her story shattered me. She was once this glamorous, larger-than-life heiress the tabloids were obsessed with, but then she disappeared from the limelight. As she opens up about her past - her childhood, her sister, her heartbreak, her great love - I couldn't help but be enthralled by this woman. Her life had these beautiful, sparkly moments, but it also held so much devastating pain that had me sobbing multiple times. Even though she’s fictional, she felt so human and real. Her relationship with Cosmo was the kind of love that makes you believe in soulmates…and then completely rips your heart out. And the final reveal?? I wouldn’t say it shocked me, but it absolutely gutted me. She’s lived such a huge, complicated life, and when she finally shares the truth, it broke me. Not just because this reveal is heartbreaking (because it is), but at the end, you reflect on the pain and suffering, the secrets and lies she's had to endure all alone. 😭 I also loved how Alice’s story and Margaret’s story mirror each other. They’re two women, generations apart, dealing with grief, identity, and the weight of love, and their stories blend together in the most beautiful, devastating way. And of course, Emily Henry’s writing is just FLAWLESS. She balances so many different genres (women's fiction, historical fiction, romance, mystery) and somehow makes it feel effortless. I went into this book for the romance, and don’t get me wrong, I LOVED the romance, but I stayed for the heartbreak and healing and depth. I consumed this book, but this book also consumed me. One minute my stomach felt like it had butterflies, and the next, I was crying uncontrollably. Great Big Beautiful Life is hands down one of the best books of 2025. I just know this story is gonna live in my soul forever. PS: Julia Whelan absolutely nailed this audiobook narration. Her voice brought so much warmth and emotion and personality to every character. There were some moments I completely forgot she was narrating alone because her voice for Margaret was incredible! I’ve listened to a lot of audiobooks, and she’s one of those narrators who makes you feel like you’re living inside the story. I already loved the book, but her narration took it to another level. I will seriously listen to anything she narrates from now on! My ranking of Emily Henry books: 1. Beach Reads x Great Big Beautiful Life 2. Book Lovers 3. People We Meet on Vacation 4. Funny Story 5. Happy Place Favorite Quotes: “There’s an old saying about stories, and how there are always three versions of them: yours, mine, and the truth.” _______ “Once you love someone, you can’t have it all anymore. Love comes with sacrifice, that’s how it works." _______ “The world Freddy Ives lived in was built around him. There wasn't room for her.' I swallow a knot. 'What do you think he should have done?' She turns the full force of those shining blue eyes on me. 'For the one you love? Anything. You unmake the world and build a new one. You do anything to give them what they need.” _______ “There are all kinds of reasons for a woman to want to disappear. Always have been.” _______ “Do you believe in free will?" “I think there’s so much out of our control almost everything about how our lives go. But I think deciding that we’re all just on a track, that we never had any say in our decisions, it feels like the thing someone with a lot of regrets would need to be true.” _______ "Love isn’t something you can cup in your hands, and I have to believe that means it’s something that can’t ever be lost.” _______ “It’s yours,” he offers. I laugh. “Oh? I can have the world?” “Mine,” he says, “yeah. You can have mine.” _______ When he looks at me, the world stops turning. _______ “You okay?" "I’m amazing." "You are.” _______ “I feel like you’re mine. Like you’re mine in a way no one else ever has been." "I want you to be mine.” _______ “Every time we try to protect each other, all it does is cost us more time together and I’m not willing to lose any more. I want to be with you. Nothing else is going to matter to me more than that. Not at the end of my life. Not even now. Nothing will matter more than who I spent my time with and I want it to be you. I need it to be you.” _______ “When I let myself dream,” he murmurs against my ear, “or it all comes crashing down—it’s Alice, Alice on my mind. Alice all the time.” _______ Whom do you love? What makes your heart beat? For whom would you unmake the world? And how would you build a new one? _______ “I find myself thinking that maybe every bit of heartbreak in life can be rearranged and used for something beautiful. That it doesn’t really matter whether I chose this path or I was born onto it, so long as I stop and appreciate the path itself.” _______

Since I’m writing this at 3 am, still a little sad and my heart exploding with joy, it’s safe to say I’m not disappointed with the latest of EH’s masterpiece. As I see it, what people don't like are the similarities in topics from two of Emily’s less loved (for some reason) books: the way Harriet made Wyn her entire world in Happy Place , and Alex’s fear of ultimately losing the love of his life in PWMOV . It’s honestly okay to dislike something but, as far I'm concerned, I don't agree with the too many people saying they don't understand how can this story be a romance. For me, there's nothing as clear as the fact that Great Big Beautiful Life is the culmination of what we’ve been reading for the past years: EH writes simple, yet meaningful, stories about falling in love and letting yourself being vulnerable. Actually, it has never struck me as in this particular novel: Margaret and Cosmo’s epic love story isn't better nor in any way more important than Alice and Hayden’s, which have met, fallen in love and understood that was IT in the span of a month. What we especially gather from this is what EH has been saying for the last of her five books: when you love someone, and realise how impossible is to breath without them by your side, you will rearrange the world for them. ↠ 5 stars

“𝒀𝒐𝒖 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒌 𝑰’𝒎 𝒃𝒆𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒓𝒊𝒅𝒊𝒄𝒖𝒍𝒐𝒖𝒔,” 𝑰 𝒔𝒂𝒚, 𝒉𝒂𝒍𝒇 𝒔𝒕𝒂𝒕𝒆𝒎𝒆𝒏𝒕, 𝒉𝒂𝒍𝒇 𝒒𝒖𝒆𝒔𝒕𝒊𝒐𝒏. “𝑰 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒌 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒍𝒊𝒗𝒆 𝒊𝒏 𝒂 𝒘𝒐𝒓𝒍𝒅 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕’𝒔 𝒎𝒐𝒓𝒆 𝒊𝒏𝒕𝒆𝒓𝒆𝒔𝒕𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒐𝒏𝒆 𝒎𝒐𝒔𝒕 𝒑𝒆𝒐𝒑𝒍𝒆 𝒍𝒊𝒗𝒆 𝒊𝒏,” 𝒉𝒆 𝒔𝒂𝒚𝒔, 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒋𝒖𝒔𝒕 𝒂𝒔 𝒎𝒚 𝒉𝒆𝒂𝒓𝒕 𝒔𝒕𝒂𝒓𝒕𝒔 𝒕𝒐 𝒔𝒊𝒏𝒌 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 𝒅𝒊𝒔𝒂𝒑𝒑𝒐𝒊𝒏𝒕𝒎𝒆𝒏𝒕, 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 𝒂 𝒌𝒊𝒏𝒅 𝒐𝒇 𝒍𝒐𝒏𝒆𝒍𝒊𝒏𝒆𝒔𝒔, 𝒉𝒆 𝒂𝒅𝒅𝒔, “𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝑰 𝒘𝒊𝒔𝒉 𝑰 𝒄𝒐𝒖𝒍𝒅 𝒍𝒊𝒗𝒆 𝒊𝒏 𝒊𝒕 𝒕𝒐𝒐.” 𝑰 𝒇𝒆𝒆𝒍 𝒎𝒚𝒔𝒆𝒍𝒇 𝒃𝒆𝒂𝒎𝒊𝒏𝒈. “𝑰’𝒍𝒍 𝒕𝒂𝒌𝒆 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒔𝒐𝒎𝒆𝒕𝒊𝒎𝒆.” “𝑰’𝒅 𝒍𝒊𝒌𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕,” 𝒉𝒆 𝒔𝒂𝒚𝒔. It made me cry which means 5 stars, period. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ That's my review, thanks for coming 😭✨ Obviously, this review is hard to write because even though it’s been almost a week since I read it, I can easily say this was such an emotional book for me. First off, I do want to say yes, it is a romance because it has all the elements, but definitely do not go in with the same expectations as other Emily Henry books. Please be advised that it leans a bit more toward women’s fiction instead of full-blown romance. As a romance reader myself, I was nervous going in because me and women’s fiction have a hit-or-miss relationship... but boy, this one did not miss...it was a direct hit. And that target? My heart. LMAO 💘 Alice and Hayden are both writers competing for the same job: to write the biography of Margaret Ives. That’s the core storyline, and readers get Alice’s POV through her meetings with Margaret, going into her past timeline that adds so much depth to Margaret's current situation and eventually ties up with Alice as well. Not only do you uncover who the real Margaret is, but through her story, you also watch Alice and Hayden’s relationship unfold. Their rivals to lovers tension, slowly falling for each other while still being in competition? UGH. So, so good ❤️‍🔥 I can easily say it had a bit of slow burn as well!! 𝑨𝒇𝒕𝒆𝒓 𝒎𝒐𝒓𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒓𝒆𝒆 𝒅𝒆𝒄𝒂𝒅𝒆𝒔 𝒐𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒑𝒍𝒂𝒏𝒆𝒕, 𝒂𝒍𝒍 𝒊𝒕 𝒕𝒐𝒐𝒌 𝒘𝒂𝒔 𝒂 𝒇𝒆𝒘 𝒘𝒆𝒆𝒌𝒔 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒓𝒊𝒈𝒉𝒕 𝒑𝒆𝒓𝒔𝒐𝒏 𝒕𝒐 𝒆𝒏𝒕𝒊𝒓𝒆𝒍𝒚 𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒓𝒓𝒂𝒏𝒈𝒆 𝒎𝒚 𝒄𝒐𝒎𝒑𝒐𝒔𝒊𝒕𝒊𝒐𝒏. Why 5 stars? I cried. That RARELY happens. And the way Emily Henry wove every part of the story together into one cohesive, heartbreaking, beautiful narrative? I’m so impressed. 🥹🌟 The book is definitely romantic, do not get me wrong. Alice & Hayden go through it all: the tension, the hugs, the hand kisses, and even the "I was worried about you." It may not be the main attraction, but you will definitely still be giddy throughout the entire book for those two. “𝑾𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒅𝒐 𝒚𝒐𝒖 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒌 𝒊𝒔 𝒈𝒐𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒕𝒐 𝒉𝒂𝒑𝒑𝒆𝒏?” 𝑰 𝒂𝒔𝒌. 𝑼𝒏𝒅𝒆𝒓 𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒃𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒕𝒉, 𝒏𝒆𝒂𝒓𝒍𝒚 𝒂 𝒘𝒉𝒊𝒔𝒑𝒆𝒓, 𝒉𝒆 𝒔𝒂𝒚𝒔, “𝑰 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒌 𝒊𝒇 𝑰 𝒈𝒆𝒕 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒔 𝒋𝒐𝒃, 𝒚𝒐𝒖’𝒓𝒆 𝒈𝒐𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒕𝒐 𝒃𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒌 𝒎𝒚 𝒇𝒖𝒄𝒌𝒊𝒏𝒈 𝒉𝒆𝒂𝒓𝒕.” I personally loved that the main focus was being on Alice’s way of thinking and how she approached each interview it gave so much more depth to her character development and how it unfolds the rest of the story. If you're a fan of The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo, TRUST ME 🙂‍↕️ you will loveee this SO FREAKING MUCH. And if you’re not a fan? I still think you will enjoy it. Personally, I didn’t love that book, but the way this story is written made it so much easier for me to get immersed and truly connect with what was happening something I struggled with previously. ANYWAYYYY EMILY HENRY, once again I can say you slaaayed. It was such a different way of writing compared to her previous books, but I can easily say this book took the #1 spot for me as top Emily Henry book (Beach Read was my previous #1) 💫🧡 ⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆.⋆. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁. ݁₊ ⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁⋆. ➳ 𝗽𝗿𝗲-𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱｡ꪆৎ ˚⋅ the time is now. as soon as I finish one of my CR this one is NEXT! so grateful to have an eARC from Berkley!

I am in fact a mess rn but this was everything to me! More thoughts to come after I’ve stopped crying over this book!! EMILY WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO ME!!

This book was SO good, what the heck are y’all taking about?!! This was so different - it was giving mystery, historical fiction type romance. I couldn’t have loved it more.

╰┈➤ 𝟻 ✰ ꜱᴛᴀʀꜱ ☀️ ❝𝙸 𝚌𝚛𝚊𝚌𝚔 𝚖𝚢 𝚔𝚗𝚞𝚌𝚔𝚕𝚎𝚜 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚗 𝙸 𝚜𝚝𝚊𝚛𝚝 𝚝𝚘 𝚠𝚛𝚒𝚝𝚎. 𝙴𝚟𝚎𝚛𝚢𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝙸 𝚠𝚊𝚗𝚝 𝚝𝚘 𝚝𝚎𝚕𝚕 𝚑𝚎𝚛 𝚜𝚘𝚖𝚎𝚍𝚊𝚢. 𝙽𝚘𝚝 𝚓𝚞𝚜𝚝 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚑𝚎𝚊𝚍𝚕𝚒𝚗𝚎𝚜, 𝚋𝚞𝚝 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚠𝚑𝚘𝚕𝚎 𝚝𝚛𝚞𝚝𝚑. 𝚃𝚑𝚎 𝚐𝚘𝚘𝚍 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝚋𝚊𝚍, 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚖𝚊𝚐𝚒𝚌 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝚌𝚞𝚛𝚜𝚎𝚜, 𝚊𝚕𝚕 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚋𝚕𝚞𝚎𝚜 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝚐𝚛𝚊𝚢𝚜 𝚛𝚒𝚐𝚑𝚝 𝚊𝚕𝚘𝚗𝚐𝚜𝚒𝚍𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚛𝚎𝚍𝚜 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝚐𝚘𝚕𝚍𝚜. 𝙸 𝚝𝚎𝚕𝚕 𝚑𝚎𝚛 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚜𝚝𝚘𝚛𝚢 𝚊𝚋𝚘𝚞𝚝 𝚊 𝚕𝚘𝚟𝚎 𝚜𝚘 𝚙𝚘𝚠𝚎𝚛𝚏𝚞𝚕 𝚒𝚝 𝚛𝚎𝚖𝚊𝚍𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚠𝚘𝚛𝚕𝚍 𝚏𝚘𝚛 𝚑𝚎𝚛. 𝙸 𝚠𝚎𝚕𝚌𝚘𝚖𝚎 𝚑𝚎𝚛 𝚝𝚘 𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚜 𝚐𝚛𝚎𝚊𝚝 𝚋𝚒𝚐 𝚋𝚎𝚊𝚞𝚝𝚒𝚏𝚞𝚕 𝚕𝚒𝚏𝚎.❞ 📚⋮ 𝐆𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐭 𝐁𝐢𝐠 𝐁𝐞𝐚𝐮𝐭𝐢𝐟𝐮𝐥 𝐋𝐢𝐟𝐞 𝐛𝐲 𝐄𝐦𝐢𝐥𝐲 𝐇𝐞𝐧𝐫𝐲 📜⋮ 𝐏𝐚𝐠𝐞𝐬: 𝟺𝟷𝟼 🏷️⋮ 𝐆𝐞𝐧𝐫𝐞: 𝙻𝚒𝚝𝚎𝚛𝚊𝚛𝚢 𝙵𝚒𝚌𝚝𝚒𝚘𝚗, 𝙲𝚘𝚗𝚝𝚎𝚖𝚙𝚘𝚛𝚊𝚛𝚢 𝚁𝚘𝚖𝚊𝚗𝚌𝚎 📖⋮ 𝐅𝐨𝐫𝐦𝐚𝐭: 𝙿𝚑𝚢𝚜𝚒𝚌𝚊𝚕 𝙱𝚘𝚘𝚔 📆⋮ 𝐃𝐚𝐭𝐞𝐬 𝐑𝐞𝐚𝐝: 𝟹/𝟸𝟸/𝟸𝟼-𝟹/𝟸𝟽/𝟸𝟼 💬⋮ 𝐒𝐲𝐧𝐨𝐩𝐬𝐢𝐬 「 ”Alice Scott is an eternal optimist still dreaming of her big writing break. Hayden Anderson is a Pulitzer-prize winning human thundercloud. And they're both on balmy Little Crescent Island for the same reason: To write the biography of a woman no one has seen in years who claims to be the Margaret Ives. Tragic heiress, former tabloid princess, and daughter of one of the most storied (and scandalous) families of the 20th Century. It becomes abundantly clear that Alice & Hayden’s story, just like the tale Margaret's spinning, could be a mystery, tragedy, or love ballad... depending on who's telling it.”」 ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── ❝ "𝙸 𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚔 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚕𝚒𝚟𝚎 𝚒𝚗 𝚊 𝚠𝚘𝚛𝚕𝚍 𝚝𝚑𝚊𝚝'𝚜 𝚖𝚘𝚛𝚎 𝚒𝚗𝚝𝚎𝚛𝚎𝚜𝚝𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚝𝚑𝚊𝚗 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚘𝚗𝚎 𝚖𝚘𝚜𝚝 𝚙𝚎𝚘𝚙𝚕𝚎 𝚕𝚒𝚟𝚎 𝚒𝚗," 𝚑𝚎 𝚜𝚊𝚢𝚜, 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝚓𝚞𝚜𝚝 𝚊𝚜 𝚖𝚢 𝚑𝚎𝚊𝚛𝚝 𝚜𝚝𝚊𝚛𝚝𝚜 𝚝𝚘 𝚜𝚒𝚗𝚔 𝚠𝚒𝚝𝚑 𝚍𝚒𝚜𝚊𝚙𝚙𝚘𝚒𝚗𝚝𝚖𝚎𝚗𝚝, 𝚠𝚒𝚝𝚑 𝚊 𝚔𝚒𝚗𝚍 𝚘𝚏 𝚕𝚘𝚗𝚎𝚕𝚒𝚗𝚎𝚜𝚜, 𝚑𝚎 𝚊𝚍𝚍𝚜, "𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝙸 𝚠𝚒𝚜𝚑 𝙸 𝚌𝚘𝚞𝚕𝚍 𝚕𝚒𝚟𝚎 𝚒𝚗 𝚒𝚝 𝚝𝚘𝚘." ❞ ᴍʏ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: ★★★★★/5 ɢᴏᴏᴅʀᴇᴀᴅꜱ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: 𝟹.𝟿𝟼 ☆ ꜱᴛᴀʀꜱ ꜱᴘɪᴄᴇ: 🌶️ ᴘᴀɪʀ ᴡɪᴛʜ: ᴄᴏꜰꜰᴇᴇ & ᴀ ᴄʀᴏɪꜱꜱᴀɴᴛ 🥐 ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ɪ ʀᴇᴄᴏᴍᴍᴇɴᴅ?: 👍🏼 ɴᴏᴡ ᴘʟᴀʏɪɴɢ: ᴍᴀʀᴊᴏʀɪᴇ — ᴛᴀʏʟᴏʀ ꜱᴡɪꜰᴛ 2:23 ———♡——— 4:17 ⇄ ◃◃ ⅠⅠ ▹▹ ↻ ╭─── ┆ ╰⪼ I should've asked you questions, I should've asked you how to be. asked you to write it down for me, should’ve kept every grocery store receipt cause every scrap of you would be taken from me. watch as you signed your name Marjorie, all your closets of backlogged dreams and how you left them all to me. ⊱ ────── {⋆ ‧₊˚♪𝄞 ⋆} ────── ⊰ ʀᴇᴀᴅ ɪꜰ ʏᴏᴜ ʟɪᴋᴇ: ☀️ ᴇᴠᴇʟʏɴ ʜᴜɢᴏ 🧡 ᴅᴜᴀʟ ᴛɪᴍᴇʟɪɴᴇꜱ ☀️ ʀɪᴠᴀʟꜱ ᴛᴏ ʟᴏᴠᴇʀꜱ 🧡 ɢʀᴜᴍᴘʏ x ꜱᴜɴꜱʜɪɴᴇ ☀️ ᴘʟᴏᴛ ᴅʀɪᴠᴇɴ ꜱᴛᴏʀɪᴇꜱ 🧡 ᴄᴏᴀꜱᴛᴀʟ ɢᴇᴏʀɢɪᴀ ꜱᴇᴛᴛɪɴɢ ❝ "𝙸𝚝’𝚜 𝚢𝚘𝚞𝚛𝚜,” 𝚑𝚎 𝚘𝚏𝚏𝚎𝚛𝚜. 𝙸 𝚕𝚊𝚞𝚐𝚑. “𝙾𝚑? 𝙸 𝚌𝚊𝚗 𝚑𝚊𝚟𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚠𝚘𝚛𝚕𝚍?” “𝙼𝚒𝚗𝚎,” 𝚑𝚎 𝚜𝚊𝚢𝚜, “𝚢𝚎𝚊𝚑. 𝚈𝚘𝚞 𝚌𝚊𝚗 𝚑𝚊𝚟𝚎 𝚖𝚒𝚗𝚎.” ❞ ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── 💭⋮ 𝐓𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐬 • My first 5 star read in a while. If EmHen writes it, there’s a 95% chance I’m going to love it. No notes. 🥹 ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── ── ⋆⋅𖤓⋅⋆ ── ❝𝙵𝚘𝚛 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚘𝚗𝚎 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚕𝚘𝚟𝚎? 𝙰𝚗𝚢𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐. 𝚈𝚘𝚞 𝚞𝚗𝚖𝚊𝚔𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚠𝚘𝚛𝚕𝚍 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝚋𝚞𝚒𝚕𝚍 𝚊 𝚗𝚎𝚠 𝚘𝚗𝚎. 𝚈𝚘𝚞 𝚍𝚘 𝚊𝚗𝚢𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚝𝚘 𝚐𝚒𝚟𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚖 𝚠𝚑𝚊𝚝 𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚢 𝚗𝚎𝚎𝚍.❞

banger. perfect. NOT BORING (people are lying ab that fr). funny and introspective and special and human and oh so tender. “so different for emily henry!” no its really not. emily henry is not the genre. she’s the flavour that the genre is cooked in - i think she could write anything and it would feel like home to me. reading her books feels like remembering that every stranger is loved by someone out there. also pls stop with the mystery/thriller allegations lol WHERE. this was a love story. not a romance. a love story.

** spoiler alert ** 5 stars!! 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 (Spoilers🙉🧡) ♡₊˚ 🦢・₊✧ જ⁀➴𝙏𝙝𝙚 𝙜𝙤𝙤𝙙 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙗𝙖𝙙, 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙢𝙖𝙜𝙞𝙘 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙘𝙪𝙧𝙨𝙚𝙨, 𝙖𝙡𝙡 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙗𝙡𝙪𝙚𝙨 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙜𝙧𝙖𝙮𝙨 𝙧𝙞𝙜𝙝𝙩 𝙖𝙡𝙤𝙣𝙜𝙨𝙞𝙙𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙧𝙚𝙙𝙨 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙜𝙤𝙡𝙙𝙨. 𝙄 𝙩𝙚𝙡𝙡 𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙩𝙤𝙧𝙮 𝙖𝙗𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙖 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙨𝙤 𝙥𝙤𝙬𝙚𝙧𝙛𝙪𝙡 𝙞𝙩 𝙧𝙚𝙢𝙖𝙙𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙡𝙙 𝙛𝙤𝙧 𝙝𝙚𝙧. 𝙄 𝙬𝙚𝙡𝙘𝙤𝙢𝙚 𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙩𝙤 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙨 𝙜𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙩 𝙗𝙞𝙜 𝙗𝙚𝙖𝙪𝙩𝙞𝙛𝙪𝙡 𝙡𝙞𝙛𝙚. ⋆˚꩜｡ 🗒️────୨ৎ────💌 AAAND THE BEST EMILY HENRY BOOK GO’S TO 👑 If my love isn’t like Alice and Hayden’s I DONT WANT IT. 🚫🙅‍♀️🙅‍♀️ Now that that’s off my chest.. Beautiful, Beautiful book!! 😭💖💖 I went through all my feels but at the end but had me feeling like I was given the biggest hug at the same time!!!😭🫂♥️♥️ ~Like in every Emily Henry book, I love how she gives so much depth into her characters and how she covered Alice’s personal relationship with her mom. And reading about that aspect of not knowing where you stood between you and your parent really hit home for me,🥲 ~“𝙄 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙠 𝙨𝙝𝙚 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚𝙨 𝙢𝙚 𝙗𝙚𝙘𝙖𝙪𝙨𝙚 𝙄'𝙢 𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙙𝙖𝙪𝙜𝙝𝙩𝙚𝙧. 𝘽𝙪𝙩 𝙄'𝙫𝙚 𝙣𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙛𝙚𝙡𝙩 𝙨𝙪𝙧𝙚 𝙨𝙝𝙚 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚𝙨 𝙢𝙚 𝙗𝙚𝙘𝙖𝙪𝙨𝙚 𝙄'𝙢 𝙢𝙚. 𝘿𝙤𝙚𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙢𝙖𝙠𝙚 𝙨𝙚𝙣𝙨𝙚?" ⬆️She is the MASTERMIND of writing down feelings I wouldn’t know how to put into words, and this was one of the quotes that had me in tears 🥲😭❤️‍🩹 I also really was intrigued on Hayden’s story and his POV at some parts which I really what’ve liked to get more of, especially towards the end once everything is revealed about him being connected with Margaret! 🙊 (My jaw was on the floor for a good minute-) ~The romance in this book was so so good, though it was so much more than just the romance between Alice and Hayden🥲 Margaret’s story was so interesting, it was definitely something I’ve never read before, and felt so different than what Emily Henry has touched on. Even throughout Margaret’s history being explained and the chemistry and the life her and Sinclair had, was so beautiful yet tragic 💔😭 Especially throughout the story of her sister, Lauren. 🥲❤️‍🩹 Even through the minor twists and turns it takes throughout this book, it didn’t feel messy or unorganized at all!! It had me HOOKEDD While I definitely did shed some tears and got emotional at some parts, it overall had me INTRIGUED. And pretty much had me reflecting my entire life after finishing-😭 This might’ve been my FAVORITE ending of an Emily Henry book yet, and them being parents at the end?? Margaret’s middle name for their baby?? BYE SOBBING. 🥹🥲💝 This book is now my obsession and no one will hear me stop talking about it. 🙂‍↔️ ~Alice and Hayden are definitely my top favorite book couples in the Emhen universe and this has me convinced whatever Emily Henry writes, I WILL EAT UPP WITHOUT A DOUBT 👏🏼👏🏼 ⭐️rating: 5/5 🔥Spice: 2/5 (pretty descriptive spice scenes🙈) 📚age rating: 16+ __________ 💌𝐐𝐮𝐨𝐭𝐞𝐬: જ⁀➴"𝙄 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙠 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙡𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙞𝙣 𝙖 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙡𝙙 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩'𝙨 𝙢𝙤𝙧𝙚 𝙞𝙣𝙩𝙚𝙧𝙚𝙨𝙩𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙣 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙤𝙣𝙚 𝙢𝙤𝙨𝙩 𝙥𝙚𝙤𝙥𝙡𝙚 𝙡𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙞𝙣," "𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙄 𝙬𝙞𝙨𝙝 𝙄 𝙘𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙 𝙡𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙞𝙣 𝙞𝙩 𝙩𝙤𝙤." "𝙄'𝙡𝙡 𝙩𝙖𝙠𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙨𝙤𝙢𝙚𝙩𝙞𝙢𝙚." "𝙄'𝙙 𝙡𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩," 𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙖𝙮𝙨. {⬆️little quotes like these that have me smiling so hard} જ⁀➴ ‘𝙏𝙝𝙖𝙩'𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙛𝙞𝙧𝙨𝙩 𝙩𝙞𝙢𝙚 𝙞𝙩 𝙤𝙘𝙘𝙪𝙧𝙨 𝙩𝙤 𝙢𝙚: 𝙄'𝙢 𝙛𝙖𝙡𝙡𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙞𝙣 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙬𝙞𝙩𝙝 𝙝𝙞𝙢. 𝙈𝙖𝙮𝙗𝙚 𝙞𝙩 𝙨𝙝𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙 𝙨𝙘𝙖𝙧𝙚 𝙢𝙚. 𝙄𝙩 𝙙𝙤𝙚𝙨𝙣'𝙩. 𝙄 𝙣𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙬𝙖𝙣𝙩 𝙞𝙩 𝙩𝙤 𝙨𝙩𝙤𝙥.’ (⬆️STOPPP BRB CRYING) જ⁀➴ "𝙄𝙩'𝙨 𝙮𝙤𝙪𝙧𝙨," 𝙝𝙚 𝙤𝙛𝙛𝙚𝙧𝙨. 𝙄 𝙡𝙖𝙪𝙜𝙝."𝙊𝙝? 𝙄 𝙘𝙖𝙣 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙡𝙙?" "𝙈𝙞𝙣𝙚," 𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙖𝙮𝙨, "𝙮𝙚𝙖𝙝. 𝙔𝙤𝙪 𝙘𝙖𝙣 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙢𝙞𝙣𝙚." (⬆️I-HDGDIADGHSJADIYDYDVSBSXK) જ⁀➴ "𝙄 𝙩𝙝𝙤𝙪𝙜𝙝𝙩 𝙄'𝙙 𝙗𝙚𝙚𝙣 𝙞𝙣 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙗𝙚𝙛𝙤𝙧𝙚, 𝙗𝙪𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙨 𝙞𝙨 𝙙𝙞𝙛𝙛𝙚𝙧𝙚𝙣𝙩." "𝙄 𝙛𝙚𝙚𝙡 𝙡𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪'𝙧𝙚 𝙢𝙞𝙣𝙚. 𝙇𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪'𝙧𝙚 𝙢𝙞𝙣𝙚 𝙞𝙣 𝙖 𝙬𝙖𝙮 𝙣𝙤 𝙤𝙣𝙚 𝙚𝙡𝙨𝙚 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙝𝙖𝙨 𝙗𝙚𝙚𝙣." "𝙄 𝙬𝙖𝙣𝙩 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙩𝙤 𝙗𝙚 𝙢𝙞𝙣𝙚,"જ⁀➴ ♡ (⬆️THIS WHOLE SCENE AHGXGDHXHCBXBD) જ⁀➴ "𝙒𝙝𝙚𝙣 𝙄 𝙡𝙚𝙩 𝙢𝙮𝙨𝙚𝙡𝙛 𝙙𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙢," 𝙝𝙚 𝙢𝙪𝙧𝙢𝙪𝙧𝙨 𝙖𝙜𝙖𝙞𝙣𝙨𝙩 𝙢𝙮 𝙚𝙖𝙧, "𝙤𝙧 𝙞𝙩 𝙖𝙡𝙡 𝙘𝙤𝙢𝙚𝙨 𝙘𝙧𝙖𝙨𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙙𝙤𝙬𝙣— 𝙞𝙩'𝙨 𝘼𝙡𝙞𝙘𝙚, 𝘼𝙡𝙞𝙘𝙚 𝙤𝙣 𝙢𝙮 𝙢𝙞𝙣𝙙. 𝘼𝙡𝙞𝙘𝙚 𝙖𝙡𝙡 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙩𝙞𝙢𝙚." (⬆️Awhhh this scene had me-😭😭😩) જ⁀➴“𝙃𝙖𝙮𝙙𝙚𝙣 𝙝𝙤𝙡𝙙𝙨 𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙖𝙜𝙖𝙞𝙣𝙨𝙩 𝙝𝙞𝙨 𝙘𝙝𝙚𝙨𝙩 𝙬𝙞𝙩𝙝 𝙩𝙚𝙖𝙧𝙨 𝙞𝙣 𝙝𝙞𝙨 𝙚𝙮𝙚𝙨-𝙤𝙪𝙧 𝙬𝙝𝙤𝙡𝙚 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙡𝙙, 𝙥𝙖𝙘𝙠𝙚𝙙 𝙞𝙣𝙩𝙤 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙨 𝙩𝙞𝙣𝙮, 𝙞𝙢𝙥𝙤𝙨𝙨𝙞𝙗𝙡𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜, 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙄'𝙫𝙚 𝙣𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙛𝙚𝙡𝙩 𝙖𝙣𝙮𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙡𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙨𝙥𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙙𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙧𝙤𝙪𝙜𝙝 𝙢𝙮 𝙝𝙚𝙖𝙧𝙩. 𝙇𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙄 𝙨𝙬𝙖𝙡𝙡𝙤𝙬𝙚𝙙 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙪𝙣. 𝙇𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙞𝙩'𝙨 𝙗𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙠𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙪𝙥 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙮 𝙗𝙞𝙩 𝙤𝙛 𝙙𝙖𝙧𝙠𝙣𝙚𝙨𝙨 𝙞𝙣𝙨𝙞𝙙𝙚 𝙢𝙚. 𝙄 𝙠𝙣𝙤𝙬 𝙡 𝙬𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙 𝙙𝙤 𝙖𝙣𝙮𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙤 𝙥𝙧𝙤𝙩𝙚𝙘𝙩 𝙝𝙚𝙧, 𝙖𝙣𝙮𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙤 𝙢𝙖𝙠𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙡𝙙 𝙗𝙚𝙩𝙩𝙚𝙧 𝙛𝙤𝙧 𝙝𝙚𝙧.” (⬆️ I’M SOBBING. THIS FRICKEN WRITING 😭😭) 🎧ྀི 𝒫𝓁𝒶𝓎𝓁𝒾𝓈𝓉: ~The last great american dynasty~Taylor Swift {obvi} ~The Manuscript~Taylor Swift ~Dear Reader~Taylor Swift ~The Lucky one~Taylor Swift ~mad woman~Taylor Swift ~Margaret~Lana Del Rey (ft.Bleachers) {⬅️CANT CONVINCE ME THIS SONG ISNT ABOUT THIS BOOK?😭} ~Packing it up~Gracie Abrams ~Dinner with Friends~Kacey Musgraves ~Linger~The Cranberries ~falling in love at a coffee shop~Landon Pigg ~Love looks pretty on you~Nessa Barrett 🧡❤️Preread: Cannot wait to read this! I just got the B&N exclusive and I’m so excited to go back in Emily Henry’s writing 💌🤭💖💖 have a feeling this might be a favorite 🥰

My favorite Emily Henry book to date!! This was incredible, did a combo of audio & kindle reading (narration was 10/10) Very different from her usual style and honestly I loved it. This gave Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo vibes in the best way possible. This is less of her usual romcom and more of a historical fiction, contemporary fiction w/romance subplot combo- and it was so captivating! Whatever style of book this is, I want more. I loved both plot lines and the ending!!! Ugh so amazing how everything was wrapped up. This was outside the box and I loved it, a breath of fresh air. What to expect: ✨Historical Fiction ✨Past/present timeline ✨Old Hollywood ✨Grumpy x Sunshine ✨Slow burn ✨Genre combo

Thank you Netgalley for an advance release copy in exchange for an honest review. Steel is an author whom I return to again and again whenever I need an escape from heavy hitting reads. If you are expecting a thoroughly detailed novel with overly developed characters, 'Royal' is probably not for you. That being said, this is the perfect escapist read and Steel does a superb job delivering what her readership has come to expect of her. At face value, this is a novel about a royal family who makes a difficult decision pertaining to their child in light of the war that rages in Europe. From a historical standpoint, it was not uncommon for families to send their children to remote places where they felt the child would be better protected. However, do not expect Steel's latest work to continue on to educate you on the ins and outs of World War II. The focus of this tale is on Princess Charlotte, third in line to the throne. A young woman who is forced to relinquish all she has come to know in love and embrace the unexpected. In true Steel fashion, our ladylike heroine falls madly in love with the son of the couple determined to protect her. A charming read from start to finish, I immensely enjoyed 'Royal' by Danielle Steel because she delivered exactly what I thought she would. A romantic story centered around a young woman coming into her own.

Thank you to Netgalley, Random House Ballantine and the Author Danielle Steel for an ARC of this book in exchange foe an honest review. I love reading Danielle's books and I'm definitely a fan of hers. I love the way she combines historical fiction with romance and I also love anything British Royalty related. This book was a great combination of all and of course the strong female protagonist. You'll have to read to find out if she gets her fairytale!

It was great

A magnificent book that is set in England, where there is a royal family that must fulfil its duties for the sake of their family. The story takes place during the Second World War, in 1943, England was going through a very difficult period, the bombings did not stop. The king and queen feared for the life of their youngest daughter, Princess Charlotte. They decided to send her to the countryside with a noble family that they fully trust. The princess is only 17 years old, and she is already third in line for the throne of England. By orders of her parents, she must not reveal her identity, only her two guardians know the truth. As she is in the country, she meets a very charming boy who immediately befriends. This is not just any boy, he is the son of her guardians. But he's so handsome that it's almost impossible not to fall in love with him. I am very happy to have read this book. I love Danielle Steele, her books are very entertaining and I love that there is romance. Charlotte is a simple and good girl, I love how she is towards others. The narration is romantic, elegant and adorable that I was unable to stop reading. I absolutely loved this book. I thank NetGalley, Delacorte Press and Random House Publishing Group-Ballantine for providing me with a copy of the book in exchange for my honest review.

This is a story of a 17 year old princess sent away to safety during the World War ll in 1943 due to her fragile health and sent to a noble family in the Yorkshire countryside were no one predicts her falling in love with the protectors son. Tragic events unfold and she leaves an infant orphaned and no one knows of her existence until 20 years later when hidden letters come to light and a long lost princess emerges discovering her true heritage. I couldn’t put this book down, i just love getting lost in her books

First book of 2024. I really enjoyed this book couldn’t predict what was going to happen right until the penultimate page! Obviously fiction but can’t imagine how I would feel if this had happened in real life!

John Sanford brings investigation, suspense, and plenty of action to the first book in the Letty Davenport series. Letty has had an unconventional, tragic, and violent childhood mixed with her beneficial adoption by Lucas Davenport, the protagonist in the author’s Prey series. She’s now twenty-four, a graduate of Stanford, and working for Senator Christopher Colles. Letty is also bored until she is offered a position as a liaison between the senator’s office and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In her first assignment, she is a researcher partnered with investigator John Kaiser. There are complaints about missing oil. DHS is concerned about what the thieves are going to do with the money they are getting. Letty is smart and lean with a somewhat warped sense of humor and a tendency to be rash at times. She also takes after Lucas in several ways including her proficiency and knowledge of guns and her love of fashion. John and Letty start out on somewhat rocky ground when they first meet, but this is soon resolved via showing their areas of expertise and how they balance one another. Their personalities and approaches to an investigation are somewhat different, but they quickly learn to trust and depend on each other. Both characters have depth and show growth. The story is part investigation and part action thriller. The opening is memorable and, starting with chapter three, readers get the occasional point of view of the antagonists, rather than the entire book being from Letty’s point of view. Sandford’s writing is always great. It was fluid and flowed well, and his world-building was fantastic. There was a strong sense of place causing me to feel transported to Texas and its border towns, as though living the events alongside the characters. He’s a superb storyteller who kept me on the edge of my seat as the investigation and action unfolded. The final action scenes are riveting and hauntingly memorable. The conflict is seen from different angles as readers get insight from both Letty and the antagonists. It is very relevant and has a terrifying realism to it. Themes include violence, murder, immigration, childhood trauma, theft, security, and much more. Overall, this was suspenseful, unsettling, and action packed with compelling characters that kept me turning the pages. With a heart-rending plot, exciting scenes, and fascinating story, it captivated and terrified me. It’s a great start to a series and I’m looking forward to reading more about Letty and her future assignments. PENGUIN GROUP Putnam, G.P. Putnam's Sons and John Sandford provided a complimentary digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. This is my honest review. Opinions are mine alone and are not biased in any way. Publication date is currently set for April 12, 2022. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine. ---------------------------- My 5 star review will be posted 3-4 days after it is published in Mystery and Suspense Magazine.

Loved this one. Another hit. It has the same structure as other Sanford novels. There are two protagonists one playing off the other. Letty is the leader even though her male partner has a vast amount of experience. Great strong female character. This series is set to go the distance. Sanford always finds a way to empower someone through legal channels that makes it sound so real. What I found interesting is that the antagonist is also a well-thought-out character with great depth. This places Jane and Letty at odds—who’s smarter, who’s going to win. Great conflict and an interesting juxtaposition. The setting plays a major role in this book as it does in most Sanford novels. I could see some readers not liking this book because of the political triggers. I too read for entertainment and dislike authors who use this medium as a way to vent their political view. But in this case Sanford needed a political view point for fuel his story, to give it legs and make it run. I was okay with it. Better than okay, I was so invested in the story I did not even think about this aspect until I sat down to write the review. For the most part the overall structure of the book mirrors some of the other Davenport books, where someone in Washington uses the talents of Davenport, in this case Letty, as a secret weapon. I loved the character development between Kaiser and Letty, their banter. Just the right amount. The bad guys plan progresses at a pace easy to follow and even though the author juggled a lot of crooks and their names, I was never confused or lost. The sign of a true master. There were a couple of plot holes, one large enough to fall into. Having to do with communication with Letty and Kaiser on the ground cut off from the other law enforcement agencies, why did law enforcement not up a drone, or high-flying surveillance aircraft. Didn’t matter for me I was in it for the ride. David Putnam author of the Bruno Johnson series.

Yes. I received my Father’s Day present. As is frequently the case, John Sandford has written a book I couldn’t put down. I would steal a few minutes to read whenever I could. If this isn’t the fastest I have ever read a book it is certainly near the top. This is the first book in a series featuring Letty Davenport, Lucas Davenport’s adopted daughter. Lucas is the main character in Sandford’s Prey series. Letty was introduced in Naked Prey. In a review of that book I mentioned that some people were predicting Letty would eventually become the main character of a future series. She did appear as a minor character in a few other Lucas Davenport books. It isn’t necessary to read any of the previous books to learn about Letty. She fills in most of her background with flashbacks during this story. You will find out everything you need to know about her. If anyone has enjoyed one of the Prey books they should enjoy this one. Letty is just a younger, female version of Lucas. As you might suspect from the fact I couldn’t put it down, the pace is fast and constant. Letty and her partner, a man named John Kaiser, an ex-Army veteran of the oil wars, are assigned a case to track down some stolen oil in Texas. In typical Sandford style they follow a path of clues as the suspense and urgency of their quest increases. Spoiler Alert The antagonist is a woman named Jane Hawkes. She is the leader of a militia that is involved in an attack against some immigrants coming to the United States from Central America. Although Letty and her partner kill some of the other leaders, Hawkes escapes. This sets up an excellent chance that these characters will interact in a future book. The book ends with Letty receiving a phone call from her antagonist, Hawkes. At the end of the phone call Hawkes tells Letty she is coming after her. Hawkes couldn’t see it, but Letty stood up and nodded, touched her pocket with the 938 nestled inside. “Do that, Jane,” she said. “Bring it on. Bring everything you fucking got.”

As a longtime reader of this author's series featuring U.S. Marshals Service officer Lucas Davenport, I'm familiar with his adopted daughter Letty, who comes from a troubled background (to say the least) but has thrived under the care of Lucas and his physician wife, Weather. Now, she's 24, a college graduate and off on her own working in a ho-hum job for a U.S. Senator. When he learns of her unrest, he gives her an assignment of looking into the theft of oil from several Texas companies. The amount of oil missing and how much money the thefts amount to - chickenfeed in the overall scheme of oil industry profits - aren't of serious interest, but the senator is curious about where the profits are going and wants to make sure it's not to a right-wing militia group. In part because Letty is still green around the ears when it comes to investigative skills, she's teamed with John Kaiser, a Department of Homeland Security investigator. At first, she's not delighted with that and neither is he, but they manage to put those feelings aside and, ultimately, develop real respect for each other (if it matters, he won me over as well). The thinking is that a woman who runs a far-right website and a male accomplice may be behind the thefts; when Letty and John head for Texas and find a couple of dead bodies clearly related to the two suspects, it moves into the sure-thing department and the chase is on. But exactly who they're chasing and what they're planning to do isn't quite so clear; all Letty and John know for sure is that many lives could be in the balance if they can't figure it out in time. Readers, of course, come along for the ride as chapters shift from the perspectives of the heroes and villains before reaching an explosive conclusion. From this reader's perspective, it was a heck of a journey - during which Letty earned her investigator stripes and made a believer out of me. Already, I'm looking forward to her next adventure. Meantime, thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for the opportunity to read and review a pre-release copy of this one. Well done!

“The Investigator” opens with a perfectly described scenario for that conjures up mystery, intrigue, and danger. A blue-eyed young woman waits. Adrenalin kicks in, and readers turn the pages. Problems unfold that are numerous, multifaceted, and laden with political ramifications. The problems are created by complex, scheming, and deceptive people, and it will take people just as complex to solve them. Characters are introduced with complete backgrounds including idiosyncrasies and talents. They have diverse jobs, personalities, and social inclinations. Readers know who they and what they are. They do not just “hope” for things to work themselves out. They see things as they are, and project out both the actions and their consequences. The story is told from alternation points of view so readers know what participants do not. People are professional, and deal with multiple complex problems at any given time. There are murders to be solved, and murders to be prevented. There is also that “little oil” thing, some money complications, as well as a potential political “slip-up.” Paths will inevitably cross, and the one who discovers the other one first will gain the advantage. Sandford creates emotion and tension through vivid descriptions that drop readers into the action on the “hot flat plain, where in the distance, the circular horizon wraps around them like the edge of an old LP record,” and the “billiard-table highway dwindles to a pinpoint ahead of them.” I received a review copy of “The Investigator” from John Sandford, Penguin Group, and G.P. Putnam's Sons Publishing. Conflict and tension permeate the narrative, and it is a thrill ride from the first page to the last. This is book one in a new series featuring Letty Davenport, and I will certainly be reading the next book! “The Investigator” by John Sandford is now available in print, as an e-book, and on audio from independent bookstores, online booksellers, retail stores, public libraries, or anywhere books are found.

you rock Letty! John...stick with her :)

Letty Davenport is a chip off the old "Lucas Davenport" block in a spinoff of John Sandford's hugely popular crime fiction series. Daughter Letty is a smart, tough and courageous young Homeland Security Investigator and dynamic protagonist. Partnered with a former Delta Master Sgt., she's a fast gun shooter with deadly accuracy in this high energy thriller. I very much liked her character develop taking the lead in an investigation of stolen petroleum on the Texas border that morphs into a confrontation with a large right wing militia. In addition to her prowess as an investigator and shooter, she has a sharp sense of humor with a kick ass attitude. Unlike many authors of long running crime fiction series, author John Sandford has never "mailed in" a disappointing annual addition to the series and this wildly entertaining spinoff is no exception. I highly recommended it to my esteemed GR friends.

Someone is stealing crude oil from smaller oil companies - not a lot , in fact, it could be written off as an accounting error if it wasn't noticed by veteran oilman Vermilion Wright. And he's not concerned about the loss which is minuscule by company standards but it is a vey large amount by most standards which means big bucks. He's is not so much concerned about the money but what the thieves (because it would require more than one to pull this off) are planning to do with it. He contacts Senator Colles, head of Homeland Security to investigate. Meanwhile,Letty Davenport, a junior aide to the Senator, has become bored with paper work and is ready to quit. To convince her to stay, the Senator offers her the chance to partner with Homeland Security agent John Kaiser to track down the thieves. Letty is looking forward to the chance for some excitement but it becomes apparent they are up against some very determined and well-trained thieves and soon she and Kaiser find themselves in a whole lot more danger than they could have imagined. What can I say about John Sandford's ability to provide the reader with some of the most exciting intelligent, timely an unputdownable thrillers around except to say, even after all this time, he never disappoints and his latest, The Investigator, is no exception. It is well-written well-plotted and with plenty of action. The characters are well-developed, especially Letty who is an extremely likeable new character. She may be Lucas Davenport's adopted daughter and she may have many of his characteristics - smart, complex, determined, and fearless - but she isn't just a female version of him. Although the story is mostly wrapped up and quite satisfactorily, there is a tantalizing cliffhanger left at the end and I look forward to see where Sandford takes readers in the future. Thanks to Edelweiss+ and GP Putnam's & Sons for the opportunity to read this book in exchange for an honest review

Best book of the year! I read this book about Lucas Davenport's daughter Letty in one day. I couldn't put it down. SPOILER ALERT: Is Jane Hawkes going to become Letty's Clara Rinker?

5 Stars. Did I ever like this book! A six although the max is five. We first meet Letty Davenport in 'Naked Prey,' #14 in the Lucas Davenport series. He bumps into her as a 12-year-old brat, smart and street-wise. She narrowly escapes death at least twice. Unfortunately her mother, an alcoholic who is more being supported by Letty than the reverse, is one of the victims. Lucas and Weather adopt her and realize that she likes detective work. She becomes a chip off the old block - a Lucas Two! Jump forward a dozen years and she's a Stanford graduate working for Senator Colles in Washington. But bored with a craving for field work and excitement, not a desk job. Colles arranges for her to be hired by Homeland Security and sends her to investigate the disappearance of small amounts of oil in Texas. His fear is that profits from the stolen oil could be getting into the hands of toxic militia groups. A well-placed concern. It leads to an illusive group called The Land Division, a showdown in Texas in a border town near El Paso, and attempts to stop a busload of Central Americans from entering the US. Letty's in the middle. It's so today. What a story. (July 2024)

Great! Letty Davenport is out in the world, trying to save lives and stop evil doers. Great fit with the Prey and Virgil Flowers series. I'm always ready for a new Sanford.

Wow!...Just absolutely thrilled to discover the first, of which I hope, will be many books in another John Sanford series...This one based on Lucas Davenports tough, brilliant, adopted daughter Letty who, after graduating from Stanford has gone to work as a staffer for a US Senator...She's bored, but the Senator gets her a gig as an investigator with Homeland Security, teaming her up with a "Sandbox" veteran security expert, who bond in their love of weapons...They're sent to investigate thefts of oil that leads them to a Texas militia's plan for a splashy headlines event...Loved it!

In THE INVESTIGATOR, John Sandford kicks off a new series starring Letty Davenport, the 24-year-old adopted daughter of Lucas and Weather Davenport. A graduate of Stanford with a master’s in economics, Letty is working for U.S. Senator Christopher Colles in a boring job that she hates. Her exceptional life experiences put her in a position of knowing how to solve cases and work with law enforcement and other professionals. But before she has a chance to quit, Colles offers her a job with the Department of Homeland Security investigating the theft of oil from Texas. The Senator is mostly interested in where the money from the oil sales is going and who is facilitating the thefts. Could a militia group be behind the scheme? If so, who are these people, and who are they supplying? What do they have planned for the oil and the money it generates? Letty is thrilled at the prospect of putting her investigative skills into a new career opportunity working with DHS investigator John Kaiser, who is not happy about being paired with her. But once he sees her skills with a gun, he changes his mind. The first job they tackle is to find Jane Jael Hawkes, a former soldier and the leader of an ugly militia group. Hawkes joined the Army to escape the hardscrabble life she lived with her “white-trash loafer, hard drinker, and sometime over-the-road truck driver” father. But she learned that “some things you are born with you can never escape.” Thus, she began to attract people to her group, ResistUS, and they labeled themselves “Jael-Birds.” Letty and Kaiser travel to Texas where the oil thefts are going into high gear. They meet with oilman Vermillion Wright, who tells them that he is concerned about the disappearance of Bradley “Boxie” Blackburn, one of his employees who is looking into the oil problems. They immediately drive to Boxie’s house and find him and his wife dead under their bed, clearly the victims of a homicide. Could Hawkes and her zealous followers be responsible for these killings, as well as the theft of the oil? While on a stakeout of the militia members, Letty and Kaiser stumble upon an abandoned shack, where they find an instrument used in the oil heist along with a pile of pamphlets hidden with Hawkes’ book. Between them, they come up with a plan to search out the leaders of the militia and inform Wright, who happens to be in the hospital recovering from surgery, and his colleagues about what they have witnessed and uncovered. With each piece of the puzzle falling into place, Letty and Kaiser begin to trust and respect each other. They realize that they have an opportunity to share their personal experiences solving complicated cases based on the various kinds of training each has had. Together, they assemble all the clues into a whole plan that gives them a clear picture of what the militia is about to pull off. The suspense builds as Sandford’s protagonists get to the town where the big event is going to take place. Readers will find themselves breathless until they reach the end, and they will look forward to the next Letty Davenport adventure. Reviewed by Barbara Lipkien Gershenbaum

The Investigator is a new series from John Sandford with Letty Davenport as the main character. Lucas Davenport is not named and is referred to as Dad. "Letty Davenport has graduated from Stanford with a Master's in Economics and is working for a Senator in DC. She is bored and ready to move on when the Senator convinces her to work as an investigator for Homeland Security. She teams up with John Kaiser, a former Delta operator. Their investigation into some missing oil turns up a bigger plot of possible domestic terrosism." I love that Sandford gives Letty has her own book. She is a character that is constantly underestimated but over-delivers. This feels a lot like a Prey book but Letty has a similar but different style to Lucas. There are flashbacks to her first appearance in the Prey series (Naked Prey) to give the casual reader some background. The story is fast-paced and I had a hard time putting it down. Sandford fans will love this book. Crime fiction/thriller fans should also enjoy this one. I hope we see a lot more of Letty Davenport.

I found John Sanford's Lucas Davenport series late and binged on all thirty-one mysteries. When he rescued and adopted a tough little girl named Letty, it was my favorite book of the series, so I'm glad Letty is grown up and has her own series. This is the first book. She is still a tough little girl, with the emphasis on tough! She's in her early twenties and small enough that men keep looking past her and over her to talk to her partner, even though the big guy stands behind her, where a junior partner belongs. Letty is more than tough, she's intelligent, well informed, well-connected, and a crack shot with any weapon. In this first story, she tackles a Texas miltia led by a disillusioned ex-military female. Fast action and fun to read.

I enjoyed this book, and would recommend it!

For me John Sanford books are always five stars. He is one my favorite authors, if not the favorite. I’ve read his Prey series three times, though the earlier Prey books have a bit more depth. Judgement Prey is back to form. This is not an action—running gun battle-kinda story. This is a whodunit with an emphasis on uncovering the “who” and the “why,” with Virgil and Davenport in pursuit of clues. Non-stop conflict on every page. In this story, the plot splinter’s off and creates a second heinous bad guy that causes confusion. Virgil and Davenport inadvertently forces this outlier into action, causes him to act. I haven’t seen this type of plot before, so it kept the story fresh. This secondary off-shoot is juggled and carried along without a loss of tension and forward motion on the main plot. Excellent. Another favored aspect of the Sanford books was (in earlier books at least) how he’d sneak in a particularly crass but funny joke. He’d keep the Davenport character clean by having a throw-away character do the honors. In one instance, the two meet on the steps of the police station and the throw-away character tells Davenport the joke. Those kinds of jokes are a little too dangerous to in today’s publishing world. So, instead in this book he did something different a little different. He winks at the reader without breaking the fourth wall of writing. Difficult to do. To set this up and blend it into the plot Virgil is a recently published novelist and writing a second one. This is truly hilarious. Lucas asks Virgil. “Where are you at in your new novel?” Virgil: “Halfway or a little more. Fifty-two thousand words.” Virgil says, “I went to a book signing once, and this famous author said books have three parts: The setup and the climax, and then, in the middle, the swamp. He said he wanders around in the swamp like a lost soul. I know where he’s coming from.” Davenport says, regarding their case: “If you are writing the Sand case where are we? In the swamp?” Virgil: “Yeah, we’re in the swamp, but we’re edging into the big build-up to the climax.” This happens in Judgement Prey at or about 52k words—in the actual swamp of this Prey book. And then, to double-down on the joke, the story goes into what I call, “Churning,” he did it on purpose to mimic being in the swamp. He describes something quickly and economically that has nothing to do with the story. The same as if Sanford at this point in his own novel is mired in the swamp wandering around like a lost soul. I liked his last three, but I enjoyed this one so much more. David Putnam author of the Bruno Johnson series.

Sandford’s Davenport and Flowers are at it again, solving curious crimes when the path to finding the killer is not curvy and crazy. The cold-blooded murder of a judge and his two kids is just heartbreaking as it is unthinkable. Getting Davenport back into the crime-solving saddle from his long recuperation from numerous bullet holes from his last engagement is a must. Has the wife committed this unbelievable murder, or is it the leader of a questionable non-profit? Or someone else? What I do love about Davenport and Flowers (and can be found in many other thrillers) is the sense of humor of these characters. They are always giving each other a hard time. What is otherwise horrific is blended with humor that makes each of these crime-fighters very human; the kind of human you wouldn’t mind hanging out with. This is a great read and if this is your first Sandford book, it will not likely be your last, as there are a least a dozen Prey books. -Tom L.

John Sanford is one of my comfort reads – and a Lucas Davenport/Virgil Flowers book even more so. And this was one excellent read! While Davenport and Flowers are on point, and our mystery is a seriously suspenseful one, the absolute delight of this book was Maggie. Seriously, she’s iconic and I want to be her lol. The reason behind everything will leave you heartsick, but you’ll also love how things are…handled. A fabulous read and I can’t wait for the next book! • ARV via Publisher

Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers are back in Judgement Prey from John Sandford. "A federal judge and his two young sons are gunned down in their home. Lucas is still recovering from being shot but he and Virgil are called in to assist. The judges widow, Maggie, seems to have information about the case she shouldn't have. There's some weird things going on in some Twin City charities. And still no leads on the killer. When he goes after Maggie, Lucas and Virgil realize they have to break something loose before anyone else is killed." It amazes me how Sandford can still right a thrilling narrative after so many books with the same character. This is number 33 in the series. I did not want to put this book down. Sandford keeps the pace going and never lets up the whole book. Lucas and Virgil solves crimes in a way that they do best. The dialogue between them is great and Letty, now a Homeland Security agent, also makes an appearance. Another wild ending - actually two wild endings. If you haven't read Sandford this can be read as a stand-alone, but don't miss out on one of the great fictional detectives in Lucas Davenport. Add this to your Fall reading list. Great new crime fiction from Sandford. Thanks to Putnam for the advanced copy.

Loved, as per usual. It occurred to me, reading this latest in the series, that the tone has changed, the dialogue is current and snappy, and that maybe John Sandford is not writing his books on his own anymore. I'm not complaining, but I think I might have to start re-reading the series to remind myself how things used to be.

Bad things happen in Minnesota. I'm going to have to read all the Flowers/Davenport books. This was great. I liked the story, the humour(the conversations with Virgil and Lucas are hilarious), also goats! Knowing who the killer was didn't hurt the story at all. If anything, it increased the suspense. There was classic poetry as well. "There was a young girl from Edina... Watch the Tiny Dancer video.

Has a book ever taught or shown you something you needed to hear at the time? I learned about bereavement hallucinations in this book and feel a lot saner now after learning how common they are 😅 I'm finally catching up on John Sandford Prey novels and getting towards the end. Judgement Prey sees Lucas and Virgil being steered towards retirement after their injuries at the end of the prior novel have altered their life courses a bit. I've always liked novels where Lucas is battling back from something and I think it was a kick in the ass when a barista thought he was homeless 😂 Anyway, the boys are back on Minnesota soil (yay) chasing a villain close to home as a federal judge and his two young boys are murdered 5 miles from Lucas's house. I love seeing them back on home turf and this truly felt like a throwback to the earlier books. I liked the action and misdirection throughout the book as no one can quite figure out the motive for killing the judge The banter and bromance is back in full swing. I think it's great that after Bob, John Sandford didn't try to find Lucas a new partner. Pairing him up with Virgil for the last few books was an amazing decision and brought the series home strong. I think we needed one more level of depth to make me believe the killer (like - maybe something was found involving the Sands specifically) but overall it was an interesting case and feels like a throwback to the old Minnesota who-dunnits I'm starting the 2024 Prey novel soon and then I'm all caught up!

A Federal judge and his two sons are brutally shot dead in their home, but his baby daughter is left alive. Frustrated, the FBI contact the BCA and the US Marshalls, bringing Lucas Davenportcand Virgil Flowers into a complex investigation. All is not as it appears, and there are plenty of people with a motive for committing the crime. So why do it? An exciting and intriguing thriller, which keeps readers guessing long enough to be invested in the outcome before pulling a major switch and causing a complete reevaluation of everything that has gone before. Sandford at the height of his game.

I love this series so much!

A good one from this pair if crime solvers

Virgil Flowers and Lucas Davernport team up again. Back home recovering from their injuries from there last adventure, Lucas is asked to check out a gruesome triple homicide of a Judge and his two teenage sons. After a short time with no leads, Lucas and Virgil are formally asked to join the investigation. They quickly make headway and begin to uncover more than just the triple homicide. This was a fantastic novel by Mr. Sandford. It brings us back to St Paul, Minnesota. As a life long Minnesotan I really appreciate that. Do not fear though, you do not have to have ties to the state in order to enjoy this novel. The plot is intricately woven together with many twists and turns along the way. I often found myself reading one more chapter before putting it down. Mrs. Cooper (the judge’s wife) is a deep and complex character that brings a lot to the novel. She constantly seems to be seen in different light and brings in a lot of drama. Mr. Sanford brings a lot of tension into the novel, but also brings in a good amount of wit. The quality of the writing draws you in and keeps you engaged. The ending is dynamic and does an excellent job of capping of the story. Overall this is an excellent thriller well worth anyone picking up. Thank you to NetGalley, Johnn Sandford, and Penguin Group Putnam for a free advance copy for an honest review.

I guess that the separate Virgil Flowers series disappeared a few books back with Ocean Prey, the first book labeled as a Virgil Flowers and Lucas Davenport novel. That’s fine by me, these two characters play really well off each other, and they made so many cameo appearances in each others books that it was kind of a mess keeping them apart. This is in my mind straight down the middle of the Prey series. I appreciated that in this book the primary character of interest outside of Lucas and Virgil is a female victim of the crime - we don’t actually spend too much time with the person who pulls off the murder that opens the book. Anyway, if you like the Prey series, and you like Virgil, you’ll like this.

Lucas and Virgil work together again. As one person, both a victim and a perpetrator says, they are the A Team: smart, dogged, and dangerous. And funny.

So…you know that feeling when you put on an old, comfortable sweatshirt and just settle in on the couch with a cup of coffee?? That’s how I feel with Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers! I read so much, that when I started this one I was so pleasantly surprised to realize that the duo is back, and starring in this book!! And, I must say, I have loved ALL of John Sandford’s books that I’ve read! This was no different! We open up with a very well known Judge, and his two sons shooting hoops in the yard. They return to the house and are short dead! 😮 This is literally the first two minutes of the book…so it is NOT a spoiler… We go on to meet his wife, their friends, and multiple acquaintances who may or may not be suspects. Being as he had such a high profile job, there are dozens of leads… And, Lucas and Virgil are on the scene! Lucas is still recovering from the last fiasco where he was almost killed…but he’s doing PT and getting better. And Virgil is still his crazy self! We follow the leads, and all their antics…which will make you LOL at times! The story kind of splits into two parts and we have a dual theme going. I thought they would interlace at the end, but they didn’t seem to. Didn’t matter though. The book was still terrific! 4 1/2 ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️💫 for me, rounded up to 5! #JudgementPrey by #JohnSandford. See all my upcoming reviews on Instagram @BookReviews_with_emsr. Happy Reading!! 📖📚

Since 1989 when I read Rules of Prey, I've been a dedicated fan. Sanford reliably delivers on the brand promise: murder, evil villain, chases, red herrings, fascinating characters and yes, justice in the end. Maybe not perfect justice but something that will do in an imperfect world. Lucas never is boring or totally predictable. Flowers has emerged as more than just a side kick with his own brand. The really fun part in this book is how Virgil is writing his latest crime novel which he hopes will retire from law enforcement to write full time. That has to have been great fun for Sanford to give a peak into his process. Any way, if you have read Prey books, this one is a doozy! And if you haven't start now!

Sandford is my favorite author for good reason. The characters are always clear and relatable, their motivation realistic, and the unraveling of the case always logical and reasonable. To me, Sandford's gift of dialogue is his most laudable skill as a storyteller and the smoothness and ease with which the story progresses feels effortless (even though it obviously is not due to the research required). While there are books in the Prey series I've enjoyed more (Toxic Prey being the absolute best) this book absolutely lives up to expectations.

Nearly 5--except for Chelsea. For heaven's sake, just drop the baby all together. She's more a doll than a baby. Otherwise, I enjoyed this one. Virgil and Lucas work so smoothly together they are a joy to read. Neither Lucas nor Virgil has the rock-star persona, but their professional work is still top notch. It's the first time in a long time that the book didn't go on too long.

What an ending!!! We find our Investigators-Lucas and Flowers with their usual banter is awesome. Now Flowers is writing his second novel😀…The twists and turns in this investigation keep the reader guessing as well as the Detectives! Enjoy

I enjoyed this book…like all of the other “prey” books I have read!

Lucas and Virgiil, Great Together A good addition to the Prey series that moves fast with lots of action. Lucas and Virgil make for great dialogue and inject the necessary humor in what is otherwise a very dark story. The author has managed to keep his plots fresh which is truly remarkable as this is the 33rd entry in the series. I don't believe Robert Parker did as well in his Spencer series.

Love when "The Boys" are both back in the saddle together. They cracked me up with their BRO-mantic dialog in this one. The story was contemporary, and the reading was fast going. Enjoy!

Another great read! Another great read about Davenport and Flowers. Sandford makes these 2 characters so alive, they could be sitting on the living room couch talking to you! Looking forward to his next novel!

This was a fun, believable thriller.

Always order the new Jack Reachers the previous year and wait for delivery. Then as they are fast reads sit on them for a while. To be fair even at 900 pages a Reacher would be a fast read. Much has been said about Lee Child and his brother Andrew’s partnership as being a bit lightweight compared to the old days. To be fair if you benchmark a Reacher against the first book - Killing Floor - in my opinion all fall short. But only a tad. This book has Reacher back in his Military Police days after being busted from Major. He is enlisted into a small task force to identify the killer of a number of scientists involved in a project some years back. I loved it. It kept my attention. Reacher had a few altercations that came off worse for his opponents. But the story was a good one. So I will be ordering the next book when announced. Ps found a typo on page 191 - Reached ilo Reacher.

Well, they´ve done it again. A wonderful romp.

Great thriller! It was just one thing after another. Reacher is just amazing as usual.

Jack Reacher is still going strong!

Actually a 4.5 but moving it to 5 as it is improving. In general, Andrew's writing has tended to be a bit overblown, and puffy while Lee's has been lean and taught. This book is more of a return to Lee's style, characteristic of the earlier Reacher novels. So if this is Lee's last collaboration, I hope Andrew can continue in this style. To Andrew's credit, a lot of the mind games Reacher plays - population of towns he's passing through, math and time tricks which tend to get repetitive are gone. As usual, a good tale with lot's of twists to keep one guessing in a story that moves along briskly in true Reacher fashion - a worthy read!

A blast from the past with old school army Reacher was just what I needed. This is definitely the best of the co-written Reacher novels so far. Plenty of all the things we love about Reacher, nothing to complain about.

Revisiting a solid "Reacher" prequel set during his MP days, though I still lean towards his adventures as a wandering paladin dismantling sinister plots. With Lee and Andrew Child now sharing creative duties, there's a noticeable shift. I miss those lengthy musings about everything from dislocated knees to childhood bullies—they seem to be missing in these co-written books, and I want them back! In "The Secret," Reacher teams up with a group of expendable "Misfit Government Agents," fitting in seamlessly. Set in 1992, the team delves into the murders of government scientists linked to a project that may have caused a Bhopal-like disaster in India in the '60s. It's still Reacher, and it remains an immensely enjoyable read!

It took four books, but Andrew Child finally turned out a Jack Reacher novel in the style of his brother Lee, who created the character — and whose name still appears as co-author. Instead of setting "The Secret" in the present day, Andrew Child set the story in 1992, when Reacher was a recently demoted Army investigator. The opening chapters have Reacher working on a case that has no connection to the main plot, but they serve to establish the character's backstory. When Reacher is assigned to a multi-agency team to investigate a growing series of scientist murders, the real story begins. It's a readable thriller that is hard to put down. Perhaps "the secret" to Andrew Child writing about Jack Reacher is to return to Reacher's Army career. I wouldn't mind another book like this one.

It’s Reacher! Not much more needs to be said. Nice to read it whilst watching Series 2 on Prime which brings Child’s real Reacher to life in a way the diminutive Cruise never could. Good plot, nice twist and Reacher doing what he does best. Interesting to see him as a soldier throughout the book rather than in flashbacks. Nothing gets past him! Keep the coming Lee and brother!

Reacher is back to the future. Or back to the past. Either way this was a great read!

I recently came upon a quote which definitely pertains to my relationship with Reacher stories — I read a Reacher book in a day and then wait a year for the sequel. I suppose I could try drawing out the reading experience but Reacher adventures demand to be inhaled at top speed. This book is a little different in that it draws from his days as an MP, in 1992, before cell phones and super connectivity changed the world. It started a little slowly as we are introduced to Reacher working on and solving a somewhat pedestrian army warehouse theft . Then the focus switches to a widespread mystery of the deaths of a number of law-abiding citizens, and Reacher becomes part of a multi department task force. Since anyone familiar with Reacher knows he does not play well with others, the enjoyment becomes two fold — watching Reacher untangle the puzzle while remaining true to his personal code. Of course, as in any good mystery, even that inconsequential introductory case has a bearing on the rest of the story. In general the pace didn’t flag, and there were several excellent scenes of Reacher being Reacher, but I still prefer Reacher the paladin, traveling through life at his own pace, defending the defenseless, However, even Reacher the military man gives a good account of himself and provides an entertaining read.

Book #28 in the Jack Reacher series. There are two kinds of people in the world, those that love Jack Reacher and those who have never read a Jack Reacher book. To read them is to love him. Every reader has their favorite or two and every reader will argue with you over why their favorite should be yours too. Each book can be read as a stand alone, but once you join this fan club, you'll want to read the others too. I've read them all. Jack has standards and expects everyone to follow the basic rules of law. He's often disappointed and often dispenses his form of justice, with or without the help of the local law enforcement agencies. This story follows those guidelines and provided this reader with another excellent trip on the road with Jack Reacher. I am a dedicated Lee Child/ Jack Reacher fan and have recommended this series to any and every one I know. BUT, one of the best parts of a Jack Reacher book is the side trips Reacher makes either physically or mentally during his actions. He is an analytical character and seeing how he reaches his decisions makes him a three dimensional character. This piece of this fantastic series is missing. It leaves the Reacher in THE SECRET more of a two dimensional participant in the story. This is a GREAT series, even a 5 star still, but it's lacking that something that put Jack Reacher on everyone's recommended TBR list. Please put it back.

It is 1992 and a recently demoted Captain Jack Reacher (MP) is taken off assignment to join a task force searching for two ruthless killers who are determined to uncover a decades old conspiracy. The writing style has changed since Andrew has joined Lee Child in writing these thrillers, but the plot is still classic 'Reacher': honour versus greed and the belief that one nan can make a difference.

Troubles in Paradise by Elin Hilderbrand Reviewed on July 10, 2020 I really am NOT a “Chick Lit/ Romance/ Character plot driven” fan!!! ….Aww but I am a major Elin Hilderbrand fan. Guess what? This is a Chick Lit/Romance/ Character Plot driven” story and I LOVED IT!! This is my 20th novel and it is #3 in this trilogy, I totally got caught up with these characters in the other two books ~ Huck, Irene, Cash, Baker, Ayers, and Maia I enjoyed and wanted to read more. Actually sad that this is the end of this series. Certainly hope that these St John's characters drop by in another novel…. I love when EH has characters from other novels drop by ~ bit of a (view spoiler)

Loved it soo much. Pure perfection. I want more. Make a spinoff

Gorgeous! really loved this trilogy and didnt want it to end! the people, the place, the food and Winnie the golden retriever, I loved them all! I loved that I didnt have to wander what happened to them all, I could just dive into the next book. I love this author and cant wait to dive into her Winter series next.

Loved the whole series! Will miss the characters!

I absolutely loved this Series! All 3 books were engaging- I couldn’t put them down. I also couldn’t wait to see Huck and Irene unfold.

I’m sad this series is over! I loved these books and read them so quickly… I was so invested in these peoples lives!! I can’t wait to read more of Elin’s books!

I feel like it is crazy to say this but Jack Carr has even become a better writer with this latest installment of the Terminal List series. What makes this the best book, to date, is that not only did Mr. Carr give us the military-grade action we’ve come to love. He also gave us a subtle analysis of modern-day geopolitics, enriching the story beyond its high-octane nature.

“And remember, trust no one”

Only the Dead is another great read from Jack Carr, in this one James Reece still hunts for his fathers hidden documents while at the same time is trying to stay alive and save the world and his family. It maybe sounds a bit like a story with a superhero but it's far from it. Reece is no superman he is a man with a strong conviction of doing the right thing while protecting his loved ones. I found the economic thinking behind this story interesting and the action scenes are fantastic. Some great details both on how to solve problems when fighting multiple advesaries and some great use of equipment. Even though it sometimes feel like an advertisement of great gear, some explaining has to be done for those that aren't familiar with all the cool stuff out there. I like the way he mixes old gear with new and makes the most of it. Sadly I must confess that Raife is getting to be my favorite character and his interactions with Reece are some of the best.

I think this is my favorite James Reece adventure since book 1. I love stuff that involves the late Cold War era and this book checks all of those boxes with the cloak and dagger stuff. Also Carr's penchant for writing action and unblinking depictions of violence is at an all time high here. Really enjoyed every bit of this from beginning to end, and really appreciated how he finally brought things to a head that have been minor threads in previous books. Easy 5 stars.

Reece makes me wish i could really be a bad a** spy working in espionage and all that jazz. P.S. I wouldnt last a day 😂. My my what a ride, Jack Carr always knocks it out of the pack with his thrillers, I had to finish this quick cos book 7 is coming out in a few months.... Solid 4.5 stars!!!!! Reece goes back to the past to identify why he was framed for the president's murder and put in order all the moving parts in this fast paced thriller !!!! ENJOY!

“It was Alice” … if you’re a fan will understand. She’s not in the book often, but those few times her minor presence is representative of a bigger picture. Fits for me. Current events play an important roll throughout the story. Feeling as though this is what’s happening behind the scenes of governments. Ours is underestimated and it is our fault is a sub theme setting. We’re on a crash course. Distracted. I dragged this book out on audio for a week because it is the final installation. No more badassery from Reece. Partly because being in the story as a fly on the wall gave me time with a grandfather I’d recently found out had been a UDT or Underwater Demolition Team member until President Kennedy renamed them Navy Seals. In a way the series gave me time with my grandpa in spirit. I did not know my grand dad, but if I had imagine he could share a lot of stories. For a little while it felt pretty cool to live vicariously through Reece’s eyes wondering about the tales of my grandpa. For a year since seeing the Prime series and learning it was based on a book to the crescendo meeting Jack Carr tomorrow I’ve dined on six terrific thrillers and enjoy all including the special cover version from the Prime release autographed. My favorite is this book “shot and sign”. Mr. Carr shot an AR-15 bullet through 500 pages just under the title. Then signed underneath. Specially bound. In honor of my grandfather’s memory and these fun fiction tales recommend taking the journey. Badassery at its best, to me. As a veteran who worked certain jobs that require me to continue privacy am a little creeped out by fiction vibing facts of book six. Favorite part of the book is hearing Jack Carr share details at the conclusion that frankly make me go “Hmmm”. Fun side option, Mr. Carr interview on Joe Rogan May 16th. If you subscribe to Mr. Carr’s newsletter can get notified of updates, too. Exhale, now what? Never have I ever been so sunk into an author so quickly. As I said earlier, spending fictional time with my grandpa was fun. Even if your family didn’t serve in the military this book is an action packed source of intrigue and unbelievable heroism and a whole lot of death. This book is not for you if you do not like guns or get upset about government stuff. It might agitate or anger your sensibilities. At times even I thought, holy F, this could be real. The story is so entangled in current events and factual details (even the author notes them at the conclusion of the audio) the struggle to wonder or not is as real as the facts although fictional experiences when not ‘redacted’ by the government edits. Sad the series is over. Cherry on top tomorrow at the book signing with Mr. Carr will make this one of my favorite reading journeys to date 🙌🏼 ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️🥰

I have literally started and almost finished (like 6 paragraphs at least 🤦🏼‍♀️) reviewing this book three times now but the app keeps crashing! Ugh! For now, just know that I LOVED this last installment and so far it is the best of the series. I cannot wait for the next one!

The worst part about this book is my genuine lack of surprise about anything. There were some serious close calls for James Reece, and I hated that I guessed the traitor before he did. Lots of cheering for Reece and hating on a special group of people. Cyprus The list... 5 Stars

Kept me on the edge of my seat!

Jack Carr is such an amazing author! He writes in such a way as to keep your attention and to keep you wanting to read more. He creates much tension and action. He makes you think. Did this really happen? Could this happen? He touches on world events and leaves you with an uneasy feeling, because who knows what goes on behind the closed doors of world governments.

Brilliant. I can’t think of a more appropriate and descriptive term. Truthfully, I believe the James Reece saga could end. He is an extremely compelling character. This episode is well crafted, believable and a compelling story. Whatever Jack Carr writes in the future, I’ll be at the head of the line to read it.

READ MY FULL REVIEW AT Best Thriller Books Make sure to check out the full review

Jack Carr brings the reader of this book plenty of "food for thought" a wealth of action as only the author can deliver. A few "soft spots" which eventually build up to historical facts leaving the reader with their own conclusion and/or opinion. Needless to say the best of Jack Carr (and James Reece) is still to come!

Fact is indeed stranger than fiction. I wonder what Jack Carr thinks about the recent failed mutiny by the Wagner Group on the Russian state, and the recent death (accidental or assassination, that is still up in the air) of the leader of the Wagner Group in real life. In the book, there are parallels to real life events, that pale in comparison to our current chaotic world. This latest installment of the Terminal List reads like John Wick for hand-to-hand combat. I can really see the refinement in the prose. The writing is much better than in the first book, and the exposition is a bit more nuanced. It was a good read, a way to get outside of my own filter bubble. The action scenes were top notch.

Solid 5-Star for me! I've steadily been getting caught up with the Terminal List series by Jack Carr. I had one book left to get under my belt before the latest installment gets released in June. I successfully devoured Only the Dead this past weekend in just 3 days (minus the 45 minutes I spent wrapping it up just this morning). This just might have been my favorite adventure of James Reece to date. I've really enjoyed all six of books from the series so far but this just resonated with me for some reason. The pacing was fast in this one. It seemed like the story was non-stop! It wasn't a blur of action though there is plenty of that to scratch that itch if it's what your looking for. But even the moments where there isn't a lot of action and fighting going on, the mood is still very entertaining with that thriller and suspense vibe. No issues with names as these stories are basically modern times in our own recognizable world. The audiobooks narrated by Ray Porter continue to breath even more life into these stories. Another aspect I enjoy is the notes from the author both to start the book and wrap it up. The fact Jack Carr dangles the carrot in front of the reader eluding to letting us know at the end how much of this story is based on fact versus fiction got me thinking right away. Then the conclusion when he lays that information out for us at the end was interesting. I was a bit surprised on a couple of topics where I thought for sure they were going to be based on facts or real world locations yet they were just from the author's imagination. The world building continues to amaze me. I just mentioned the fact that so many of the places and events described in the series are believable whether they are based on fact or fiction. Jack Carr does a great job in making these all seem feasible and paints a detailed picture allowing me to feel like I'm right in the thick of these scenes. Whether it's in a Bratva massage parlor or standing on the banks of a peaceful river having a discussion with someone fishing, I feel like I'm right there. The character development was also solid. I think the key take away for me as it relates to characters in Only the Dead is the natural thought process of trying to figure out who the mole is and how these characters connect both past and present. I'm happy to say I ultimately didn't end up picking the correct character as the mole. I'm still suspicious of the character I had thought it was though. I think in the world of intelligence and spies it's only natural to think any and everyone has such potential. As Thomas Reese said, trust no one! Other than that, there are still several returning characters and new ones to be found in book six here. Some new characters from James Reece's father and grandfather's past were a lot of fun. I did feel there were some other potentials that were quickly lost to the reader since said character didn't last long. But as with these mysterious plots constantly twisting and turning, who knows what or who may return that we though were deceased by this book. In closing I have to mention the fact that James Reese may not be invincible but man is this guy hard to kill! This far into the series it does seem a bit ridiculous if you think of it in a realistic light. However, if you take it at face value that this is basically just an entertaining action film in a different media (which I do) these reads are so much fun! The characters and plot continue to keep me guessing and the action scenes are top notch. It's always difficult for me to discuss recommendations when I'm several books into a series. I'm assuming if you've made it to book five, you're going to continue onto this book. If you haven't checked out this series and you like action packed thrillers set in the military, intelligence, espionage or spy world, do yourself a favor and give this a go!

Finally back! I am so glad this book is back to the quality of the first three books in the series. Great opening and then a little sluggish a little too much filler stuff. But then action and background info blended well for a great story filled with action. The political background had a believable insight to it similar to Mark Hewitt's Special Access Duncan Hunter series. I look forward to the next Reece adventure. 😊

It’s not literature, true. But it’s a lot of fun to read. Like all his other books, I love the Navy Seal insider perspective - fascinating to see not just how they act and operate but how they think. There’s a lot about thought process in this book - internal conversations during severe trials focused on Seal mentality how to prevail over this or that. The story’s geopolitical threat premise for the book’s central conflict is realistic and relevant to the date it was published. James Reece seems at this point a little like America’s James Bond, a little over the top, but realistic enough to stay hooked as entertainment … and definitely how we all would like to act if under similar trial if only we had the training, skills and (hopefully) the character. And finally, Jack Carr references one of my favorite books of all time: Once An Eagle by Anton Myrer. It is presented in this book as a small but important foundational reference point for what motivated Thomas Reece, the deceased father and mentor to son James, in his own earlier and parallel heroic labors. I really appreciate that reference to Once An Eagle because, like Thomas Reece, (and the author) I see that book’s central message of existential conflict between good and evil in the military profession and beyond as foundational for soldiers, and all others as well in wherever our life takes us. Choose and then live your life well.

James Reece was captured and put into a dark prison. It was driving him mad, and he needed to stay alive. He was about to propose to Katie right before he was arrested. He was framed for an assassination. After he was free, he was drawn into the investigation. Plot twists and actions. There is a big secret that was investigated by James' father. Now James also knows this secret. Someone is plotting to start a war and drawing the Americans into it. The action part is bloody. It is almost like James being put into an impossible situation so that he could fight. Who is behind all these secrets and why? Who is the traitor? And why? I would say it is very good. 4.5 stars read.

I feel like I keep reiterating what I say each time. Jack Carr is the kind of guy you just want to read more of. Another stellar thriller and installment In James Reece’s story that adds more depth to the world and characters around him. His father plays more into the narrative which was exciting also. There are large implications at the end of this book that make me even more excited to start book 7. After Red Sky Mourning I’ll officially be caught up with James Reece and will be awaiting the next book. And I couldn’t be more excited.

You can see Jack Carr’s writing improve with each book. But what he does best is implement finite details into his storytelling to where you not only feel like you’re there, but truly feel like you’re inside the mind of a Grade-A Master of his craft. I also enjoy how he takes real-life events and incorporates a narrative to them to make the reader dive deeper past the linear narrative that we see on the news and contemplate how the world really works. I respect the hell out of Jack Carr.

His best novel. Carr managed to keep me guessing and I couldn’t put it down. The brutal action never stopped. Attention to detail was superb. I am curious how he will top this one. If you liked the Terminal List you will love this one.

I'm definitely going back to read the previous in the series and the next one. I had to picture Chris Pratt in the book. I saw the first book with him being James Reece from the Amazon series. Adventure, excitement and related to the world today. Based on many truths also.

Even better than the first 5 Carr has outdone himself with the 5th Reece book, brutally violent, thought provoking with a surprisingly astute commentary on the state of the West woven throughout. Fantastic addition to the series

HUGE HUGE fan of all of Jack Carrs books, and I was so excited when this one was finally delivered. Longer than the others, but I didn’t mind. This book was so good I did not want it to end. I really hope he’s working on a #7!!!

Jack Carr does so well at creating fiction around what is happening in reality today. He describes the Russia - Ukraine war, the Wagner group, and what is happening in the economy in a way that could be more truthful that we really know.

Seriously amazing read. None of the books have fallen off. Jack Carr has really put in an effort to make theses books amazing!

Best book in the series.

This might be my favorite book in the series. action packed and good twists and turns that jeep you turning pages! great read!!

Jack Carr’s latest installment of the Terminal List series was absolutely entertaining. James Reece lives in a world of political intrigue, distrust and loyalty. I love the fact that the book touches on the state our country is in and also looks back into our history at where we have come from and the mistakes made along the way. Only The Dead was entertaining from start to finish and I look forward to the next book in the series, if there is one that is….

Awesome Book with some of the coolest action sequences in the whole series. Definitely in my top 3 of the terminal list series so far and would recommend reading them all in order.

Just another phenomenal thriller from Jack Carr and my favorite since his 3rd books Savage Son. This book answered a lot of questions, had some intense and brutal action and enough espionage and detail of the real to scare you to the realities of the world but engross you to turn the page and keep turning till the end.

Why these idiots always trying to take out James Reece? Literally never goes well.

Great story if you overlook all the technical jargon!!

"Wasn't it miraculous, Morgan thought, to have someone love who you are, and never stop?" Thank you so much to NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for an early copy of this book in return for an honest review. I will never feel as special again as I did when I got the acceptance email for Identity. I've been reading Nora for years, but I've never been lucky enough to be the same age as one of her characters before. Morgan was different for so many reasons, but this one seemed to hit the hardest and the fastest. She's focused, hard-working, goal-oriented, practical, energized, happy, and all those other hopeful feelings you constantly wish to bask in when you are in your twenties. She was where I am in my life right now, always ready for the next thing. Excited for the adventure waking up brings. And then something terrible happens. She loses so much in a moment, falls into that endless grief, only to realize it is so much worse than she could have imagined. When someone steals your identity, you lose who you were, and you have to find a way to forge someone new. Morgan hits rock bottom, and it brought me back to how I felt in mine. How I leaned on my Mom, how Morgan leaned on hers. She was surrounded by love and comfort, but more than that, she was given a foundation to truly begin again. I don't think we ever understand how lucky we are until tragedy strikes, nor do we realize how much weight we carry until it lifts. "You'll make new plans, build a new world." And so she does. And what a joy it was to be a part of it. One of my absolute favorite things about Nora Roberts is how she makes the mundane feel exciting. I loved bar-tending with Morgan. I love spreadsheets so much that every time Nora brings them up, I want to make a million more for my own sanity. I love the three generations of Nash women, the roots, the joy, and the love between them. I love that love is always so important. I was on the edge of my seat for half of this, and spent the other half going between crying and laughing. There was so much joy between these pages. I've never felt so at home as I do when I'm reading a Nora book. What got me the most about this read in particular was Miles. He's quiet, and poised, and carries his power with an invisible suite (as Morgan says). He treats her with so much respect that it's hard to imagine I ever believed Luke to be her match. He stands up for her, he lets her hold her own more than any other male I've ever read by Nora. He's responsible, and grumpy, and magnetic, and full of so much kindness. I don't think either Miles or Morgan realized how lonely they were until they met the other. I don't think they were looking for someone until they recognized each other's hearts. Love that glows when you surround yourself with each other's worlds... well, that's more than just special. That's true Identity.

Identity by Nora Roberts Contemporary romantic suspense. Morgan Albright owned an old house she loves near Baltimore. She has a roommate that helps Morgan pay the mortgage. She has a bartending job she loves at a local bar. Morgan has plans for the house and her future. One night at the bar there is a new customer. Friendly, but not obnoxious or overdone. He stays for only two drinks then leaves. After several more drop-in’s at the bar, he asks her out. Morgan is careful to meet him at a restaurant for their first date and all goes well. He attends a small event at her hose with friends. All is good. Until he breaks into the house, kills the roommate and basically steals everything in Morgan’s life. Multiple loans in her name. New credit cards in her name. He cleared out all her bank accounts and took any jewelry and cash he was able to find in the house. There’s even a loan shark looking for a payback. He took everything from Morgan except her life. It’s what he intended, but the roommate got in the way. Morgan cuts ties, sells the house, and moves home to live with her mother to start fresh. But he doesn’t forget she’s the only one that lived. And she’s going to have to pay. Compelling and breath taking. It’s a novel you won’t want to put down. I liked the grumpy sunshine aspect of her new relationship with Miles. And the dog, Howl is amusing. He won’t play fetch with Miles but he will with Morgan. Too cute. But the scary serial killer is a mess! I received a copy of this from NetGalley. I also purchased a copy.

Check out all my reviews at: https://www.avonnalovesgenres.com IDENTITY by Nora Roberts is a perfectly balanced romantic suspense that I read straight through in one sitting. This is a standalone story featuring a young, vibrant professional bartender who becomes “the one who got away” from an obsessive serial killer who steals his victims’ identities, drains their accounts, strangles them, and then robs all their valuables. Morgan Albright has been uprooted her entire life as an Army brat, but now outside of Baltimore, she works two jobs and has a roommate to own her own home. Morgan and Nina have become very close and are more than just roommates, they feel like sisters. When they decide to have a dinner party at their home, Morgan does not realize the charming man she has met at the bar she works at is not an IT executive but a conman and killer, who targets a particular type of woman. Morgan comes home from work to discover her home robbed, her car gone and her roommate dead on the floor of her office. Morgan learns from the FBI that the man she knew as Luke, was not, but is a serial con artist, thief, and murderer. Morgan moves home to Vermont to live with her grandmother and mother as she begins to rebuild her life. Her new job introduces her to an interesting new man who helps her enjoy herself again as they build their relationship, but there are messages sent to her from all over the country reminding her that she will not get away forever. I always look forward to a new Nora Roberts or J.D. Robb book because they just never disappoint. I fell right into this story, the characters lives, the suspense and the romance and I never looked up again until ‘The End’ very late at night or very early in the morning, depending on how you look at it. Morgan is a wonderful heroine with an upbeat attitude towards her customers and life itself. She worked so hard, not once but twice in her life to make her personal dreams come true. I also love how she worked to make herself physically stronger. The generational household showed the deep connections the women had and their love for each other. The dialogue between them was very entertaining. Miles was a swoon worthy alpha hero who shows his love for family and Morgan through what he does for them even when he seems a little overbearing, Morgan stands up to him. The cat and mouse suspense plot between Morgan and Gavin kept me turning the pages. I highly recommend this great romantic suspense and author!

Lay Your Roots The only thing I can say is: Wow! Strong empowered woman, catchy story line with a little murder thrown in. One for my favorites shelf for sure!

I love this one so much! Perfect blend of suspense, romance, wit, and a fab ending! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This book is quite long and I actually found myself so highly engaged that I could not stop reading. So instead of doing the work I was supposed to be working on, I was reading all day. Roberts’ writing is superior when it comes to romantic suspense and that slow, dripping build-up. This plot is addicting! Identity is unique and highly detailed, plus she ties in plenty of surprises that completely had me captivated. The character development is spot on and I absolutely fell for Miles. I think his gruff exterior and deep feeling, mushy interior is why I couldn’t put this book down. I really love the way Roberts captured the conversations between Miles and Morgan. Much of this book is written in short, choppy sentences, building that heightened hype and excitement. We do know who the perpetrator is, but that also heightens the suspense as we get separate breakout chapters dealing with him and his activities specifically. I just love this book! It is subtle and at times intense. Roberts builds tough resilient characters along with some wonderful family connections. I think this is a winner all around with the multiple aspects of romance, family, suspense, and crime tension. I could go on and on, but definitely put this one on your list! * copy received for review consideration * full review - https://amidlifewife.com/identity-by-...

4.5 stars - This felt like a return to the kind of stand alone suspense that I love from La Nora! My only critique was a little bit of padding or slowness in the middle, but I think if you don't binge this book you won't feel it as much. This had the family dynamics, the community vibes, and the competency porn that I love, plus the resort atmosphere reminded me of the Bridal Quartet in a wonderful way. All around, this is what I want from our annual NR stand alone 🎉

Morgan Albright was driven. She worked two jobs not because she was struggling to make ends meet. Morgan worked two jobs to build a nest egg for future renovations in her dream home. Morgan loved her work as both an office manager at a construction firm and bartender at the local watering hole. Those two jobs left little time for social life, but Morgan didn’t mind. Morgan’s circumstances changed when she met Luke Hudson while bartending. Luke was smooth. A smooth talker, gentlemanly, and gorgeous. So after several weeks of casual bar conversations, Luke invited Morgan on a date. Morgan was giddy, flattered and felt to lucky to finally be with someone who was smart, handsome, and financially well off (based on the very generous tips she received from him.) But Morgan would soon find out that you can’t trust anyone, anytime. An unputdownable read, Identity was a page turning romantic suspense story. And I think that Identity was so much better than Roberts’ recent standalone, Legacy. The characters are very well developed and it was easy to get caught up in all of the drama that unfolded. I especially loved the character of Morgan as she was determined, steadfast, and brave throughout the story. Secondary to Morgan was Luke. Even if he was the villain, his character scared the heck out of me. The rest of the cast filled in to shape the narrative. The story unfolds from a third person’s point of view. And this method of storytelling works very well in this particular novel. Especially since there were different dynamics at play — family, romance, and murder. All of the elements were deftly combined into a surprising and thrilling suspense novel worthy of five stars. I received a digital ARC from St. Martin’s Press through NetGalley. The review herein is completely my own and contains my honest thoughts and opinions.

This is a very compelling thriller that was hard to put down. I connected with the characters immediately and the villain is oh, so very evil. I was kept enthralled throughout the whole book. The ups and downs of the main character were heartbreaking, but her resilience was inspiring. I loved the entire supporting cast. The narrator of the audiobook, January LaVoy, did a fantastic job giving distinct personalities and voices to the characters she portrayed. I would seek out her work again. This is a book for readers who enjoy strong women and I hope you pick it up. I received a free copy of this book from St. Martin's Press and MacMillan Audio via Netgalley. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.

Nora has done it again! This book is amazing! It's the kind that sticks with you long after you finish reading it. Our heroine is living a normal life. She has modest plans for her future and is working hard to accomplish them. Then one day a guy walks into the bar where she works and everything changes. Soon her best friend is dead, and her own identity has been stolen. She loses her home, her job, her car, and her credit rating is gone. But the FBI sees this as the first break in their case to find a guy they have been chasing for years. Our heroine moves back home with her mother and grandmother. Her life changes again, but our villain hasn’t given up on the one that got away. A great big thankyou to #netgalley and #St.Martin'sPress and #macmillan publishers!

Wow, do I have some catching up to do. This was surprisingly my first Nora Roberts book and absolutely will not be the last. It was so wonderful, not just the plot but the character development. I wanted to know the people, to live in this small Vermont town, to be Morgan's friend, and to spend time with the Nash ladies. This was such a great story. I was totally engrossed all the all the way from start to finish. I loved everything about this book. The romance was beautiful, and the suspense was masterfully done. A must read! Now, please excuse me while I make up for lost time and read everything she's written. I received a complimentary copy of this book. Opinions expressed in this review are my own.

Tense, twisty, and suspenseful! Identity is a well-executed, sinister tale that takes you into the life of Morgan Albright, a hardworking, driven young woman who, after her roommate is murdered, her life is in tatters, and her money is all gone, moves home to Vermont to start over once again only to discover that the cold, calculating con artist and serial killer with a penchant for young, slender blondes with androgynous names is still on her trail and determined more than ever to finally capture the only one that’s ever gotten away. The writing is tight and intense. The characters are vulnerable, secretive, cunning, and tenacious. And the plot is a cat-and-mouse game full of twists, turns, friendship, deception, desire, temptation, attraction, danger, romance, violence, and murder. Overall, Identity is another adrenaline-pumping, unnerving, highly satisfying page-turner by Roberts that has the perfect amount of suspense and romance to keep you guessing, engaged, invested, and entertained from start to finish while also doing an eerily brilliant job of highlighting just how utterly devastating identity theft can truly be. Thank you to St. Martin’s Press for gifting me a copy in exchange for an honest review.

Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for an ARC in exchange for an honest review. It has been years since I read a book by Nora Roberts and I am so glad I did not pass up the opportunity to read this one. I went into it completely blind and expected a regular romance novel. Boy was I surprised when things took a huge turn around Chapter 3! It quickly became a mystery/suspense when Morgan came home from work to find her best friend and roommate murdered. The story follows Morgan as she loses everything she's worked for and has to move to Vermont into a house with her mother and grandmother. She begins to rebuild her life while working as a bartender/manager at a local resort but all the while she is getting updates that her roommate's murderer is still at large and she is his big target. She was the one that got away and it's driving him crazy. I thoroughly enjoyed the amount of romance that was sprinkled into the story. I loved how we got to know so many characters and I especially loved Morgan and her ladies. This book covered so many genres in such a perfect way. It was borderline psychological thriller in the last chapter and I could not put this book down. The ending gets its own separate 5 star rating.

Finally, I have done it, listened completely to one audiobook. YAYY!!! I will consider it an achievement even it was me listening to a story that I have already read. ********************************** Many thanks to Net Galley, Hodder & Stoughton, and the author for a chance to read and review this book. All opinions are expressed voluntarily. A year back, there was this lovely feature in Goodreads that helped us to check the MOST READ AUTHORS as a list. No prizes guessing the top author in my list, none other than SANDRA BROWN. Ever since reading Prime Time, I have been an ardent fan of this prolific writer and from the time she had begun to write stories that provide a perfect mix of romance and intrigue in equal doses, I have never, ever been disappointed. Thick As Thieves is Sandra Brown at her best and for long time fans, be assured this one has all the unique characteristics that mark her novels. Edgy suspense, grumpy and irascible heroes, toe-curling chemistry, and a mind-blowing twist at the end. The hero Ledge Burnet is obviously, the surliest, the most obnoxious, and the rudest handsome devil that one might come across but with a heart of gold that the reader is left gushing, oohing and aahing 🥰🥰🥰. The heroine, Arden Maxwell may seem timid in comparison but she is no pushover by any means. The antagonist, Rusty Dyle is as creepy as it comes with his peculiar ways of exacting revenge and manipulating people and abusing the position of power. A whole host of other lovable characters like Don, Lisa, Crystal, each of them playing a definite part in this story, Sandra Brown has once again proved why she is the supreme best in the genre of romantic suspense. The story is centered in a small town in Texas where a crime of 20 years has been lying dormant, the undercurrents churning and simmering that a single event, that of the return of Arden causes the cauldron to boil over. What exactly happened one night in 2000 when 4 thieves stole half a million dollars and made a pact of life? The mystery that gets divulged in bits and pieces leaves the reader on tenterhooks until the action-filled final chapter. The revealing surprise at the end had me thunderstruck, this in spite of the fact that I had been waiting and expecting some twist as it is one of the trademark characteristics of a Sandra Brown novel. Highly recommended for fans of fast-paced sexy romantic suspense, read it one GO! This review is published in my blog https://rainnbooks.com/; Amazon India, Goodreads, and Twitter.

Twenty years ago, four people conspired to pull off a daring heist. With insider information, the heist snagged half a million dollars, left one person in jail, left another person dead, left a third person in the hospital, and left the last person missing in action. Arden Maxwell who has been away twenty years, decidedly returns to her hometown to raise her expectant child. Arden expected the rumor mongering among the townsfolk upon her return. After all, her father, Joe Maxwell was the infamous suspect gone missing in that daring and fateful heist twenty years earlier. As Arden attempts to settle into her old home, she becomes hyper aware that she is being watched. Spurred on by her own curiosity into the disappearance of her father, Arden vigorously starts her own investigation. If she only knew doing so would jeopardize her life and the lives of others. Told in multiple points of view, Thick as Thieves is an absorbing read filled with interesting and complex characters. Combined with an outstanding plot that contains enough twists and turns, Thick as Thieves is a thrilling novel of epic proportions. Five monumental stars. I received a complimentary review copy from Grand Central Publishing. The review herein is completely my own and contains my honest thoughts and opinions.

Fair warning I'm a little biased when it comes to anything Sanford writes. I've been a fan from the first book in the Prey series and have even read most of them twice. Some even three times lie the two with the female hit woman, and of course Winter Prey. When I read Winter Prey I have to put on a heavy down jacket. Righteous Prey is like the others, the conflict is well motivated and intriguing. It's also very, unique. I truly don't know where he comes up with some of these ideas. I love Davenport and Virgil Flowers each of which have their own series. They both appear in this one, play off each other and don't vary an inch from their already established characters. Sanford is one of the best out there and if you haven't given him a try you are missing out. Its better to start the Prey series from the beginning because Davenport's personal life continues to evolve. His Daughter Letty who appears in earlier books now has her own series. Love that one as well. Anyway, this book did not disappoint. Loved it. However there was one little glitch that irked this reader just a tad. I read to escape, to lose myself in another world created by great authors. What I don't need is for the author to climb up on a soapbox and espouse his/hers political beliefs. Even if its one I too believe in. I don't need it in the fiction I read. I get enough of it in the news. More and more authors are injecting their political leanings in their books and its very sad. Its not the correct form. And I know some might think saying its not the correct form to be my political belief. Keep fiction fiction and real life...well, outside, held at bay by the front door. This is one readers opinion. Loved the book and still give it five stars. David Putnam author of the Bruno Johnson series.

Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers team up again to go after a bunch of crazies. This time it is a little complicated because the bad guys are killing worse guys. So who are we suppose to root for? Sandford’s books are always enjoyable because they are mostly based in the Twin Cities of Minnesota where I have lived for almost all my life. We read about local locations. In this case Lucas and Virgil have breakfast at a well-known delicatessen in St Paul. I was planning on going there to have breakfast while I wrote this review. I wanted to ask them if I could sit in the same booth as Lucas and Virgil did. Virgil is writing a mystery novel and so a couple of mystery writers are mentioned: John D. MacDonald, C.J.Box and Carl Hiaasen. Sandford also makes a veiled reference to another Twin Cities mystery writer that most people will identify as him. Virgil mentions that the cop in those mysteries never has to do paperwork. Writing a review of a book by an author such as Sandford is somewhat meaningless. He is a favorite and I have read everything he has written. We all have our favorite authors where we hunger for their next book. Sandford has been writing these books for over 30 years. This one has the same fast-paced story and interesting characters as in all the previous books. There are some political matters mentioned here. Although he doesn’t state any anti-Trump opinion there are references to people who are anti-Trump. Also at the end of the book Weather, the wife of Lucas Davenport, and Frankie, the wife of Virgil Flowers, are interviewed by the press. Weather looked into the camera lens and said, “I work on gunshot wounds several times a year. Mostly people shot in the face or the hands. I try to help them as much as I can, but sometimes there’s not much I can do. The victims, and a lot of them are children, are often disfigured for life. Many are permanently handicapped. For what? For nothing.” And Frankie: “I’m a farm woman and I’ve had guns all my life, rifles and shotguns. I’m a hunter. But this stuff, what our husbands ran into, the bump stocks and ghost guns and silencers … this is crazy. The people with this stuff aren’t hunters or sportsmen or competitors; they want to kill somebody.” (Page 399)

It could be a 4star book but since I am from MN it gets raised to 5star just because Sanford is so Minnesota knowledgeable!!!!!!!!!!!!!! You only have to drive once through Wisconsin to know he isn't kidding about the deer roadkill. It is official in Minnesota no one ever says going to but it is gonna... and then we have Lucas and Virgil together. It does not get any better than that. It is a good prey story of course! This time it's the righteous or so they "righteously" think? I loved the grayman movie. How about prey series Netflix?????

Murder is serious enough, of course. Many deem the taking of another’s life the greatest of all crimes an individual may commit. But when a group of people get together to plot a series of murders—a murder conspiracy—surely that’s even worse. And that is exactly why Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers have been dragged into the case. Lucas has been a US Federal Marshal for many years since he left the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA). He got a call from one of the state’s US Senators, insisting he insert himself into the FBI investigation. And Lucas in turn drags in Virgil, a close friend and former colleague. Lucas is a legend in the Marshal Service. And Virgil has the best clearance rate in the BCA. But what can they possibly do that the FBI’s thousands of agents and massive forensic resources can’t do? Naturally, we’re going to find out in John Sandford’s thirty-second novel in the Lucas Davenport series, Righteous Prey. BITCOIN BILLIONAIRES IN A NATIONWIDE MURDER CONSPIRACY Here’s what’s happening. A man who lived on the streets has turned up dead behind a dumpster in a downtown alley in San Francisco. He has the number “1” scrawled on his forehead with a marking pen. But he was only discovered because hours earlier someone sent out a press release announcing the killing on behalf of “The Five.” Apparently, The Five are a group of Bitcoin billionaires who have resolved to rid the world of “people who need to be murdered.” By killing them, one at a time. And leaving hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of Bitcoins to charities that help the sort of people the “assholes” preyed upon. The street person in San Francisco is a case in point. He was, according to the press release, “a disgusting piece of human trash. He stole, he raped, he precipitated fights, he attacked elderly Asians,” and he probably killed other street people. There will be more like him. Murdered. Many more. And soon enough number 2 appears in the Twin Cities. Which is precisely why Lucas and Virgil now find themselves stuck in the case. In the middle of the most brutal winter in years. AN UNLIKELY STORY BUT SUPREMELY ENTERTAINING It turns out that there are not five people in this murder conspiracy, but six. The Five are, indeed, Bitcoin billionaires. Four men and one woman. And the sixth, a younger Asian woman, organized the group. She sends out the press releases. We know all this because we meet them, one at a time, in the course of the investigation. Although The Five insist that they’re killing “assholes,” it’s hard not to conclude that all six of these people aptly fit the bill themselves. Lucas and Virgil will, of course, be instrumental in discovering their identities and in ending the killings. The FBI plays only a supportive role, mostly at the FBI Lab. Which is unlikely, of course. But John Sandford makes it supremely entertaining, with nonstop action and lots of humor in the banter between his two heroes. Righteous Prey is as good as they come in this long-running series. ABOUT THE AUTHOR On his website, the author writes that “John Sandford is the pseudonym of John Roswell Camp, an American author and journalist. Camp won the Pulitzer Prize in journalism in 1986 and was one of four finalists for the prize in 1980. He also was the winner of the Distinguished Writing Award of the American Society of Newspaper Editors for 1985. “Camp is the author of fifty-four published novels, as of the summer of 2022, all of which have appeared, in one format or another, on the New York Times best-seller lists, many debuting at #1. In addition to the Prey, Virgil Flowers, and Letty Davenport novels, all part of the Prey universe, he is also the co-author of three young-adult books in the Singular Menace series, written with Michele Cook, and co-author of the science-fiction thriller Saturn Run with Ctein. “He is the author of two non-fiction books, one on art and one on plastic surgery. His books have been translated into most European and Middle Eastern languages, as well as Japanese and Korean.”

Five millionaires meet at a Bitcoin conference and decide it might be fun to personally remove a few people who do not deserve to live. Each murder is meticulously planned and celebrated with a press release and social media posts explaining why this particular person was removed for the good of society. Without the publicity, they could have gone on murdering for years. But the press releases caught the eyes of the media and the politicians. And the politicians sent in never fail detectives Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers. After 32 mysteries, Lucas and Virgil are getting a little older, maybe a little slower. They almost don't make it through this one. That's not a spoiler. It's part of what makes John Sanford so addictive.

What's better than a Lucas Davenport book? Or a Virgil Flowers book? The answer of course is - a new book with both of John Sandford's fantastic protagonists. Righteous Prey has just released. This is #32 and the series hasn't lost any ground over the years. Instead it's has just better and better. Sandford opens the book with a heinous crime. Five wealthy billionaires have decided to pass judgement on those they deem as a blight on society. But they're not being quiet about the murders. Instead they send missives to the media, celebrating their actions and encouraging others to take a stand. (Sounds frighteningly familiar doesn't it?) "We’re going to murder people who need to be murdered." Lucas is now a US Marshall and Virgil is with the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA). They've worked together before and both singly and together they have high solve rates. And they both despise the FBI, who also have been called in. This pair have their own way of investigating and sometimes a few corners are cut... The banter and dialogue in Sandford's books is razor sharp and so much fun to read. The tension never lets up in this latest. The plotting is absolutely fantastic. Lucas and Virgil are on the right track, but keep missing the perpetrators by a sliver. The clues, the intuition and sometimes just luck all play a part on the way to the final pages. There's a nice surprise in the final pages. Fans of this series will appreciated a cameo from Kidd. And Virgil now has a side gig - and I'm very curious to see if there's more to it in future books. An easy five stars. I'm always looking forward to the next book from John Sandford. Keep your eyes out for Dark Angel - the second Letty Davenport book coming out in April 2023.

This is—if my math is right—Sandford’s 6,289th novel, and among his best. No one writes lean procedurals with an edge like JS. An absolute burner.

Loved this 32nd book in John Sandford's "Lucas Davenport" series! Lucas and Virgil make quite the team!

Oh boy. Sandford is a master at these books. The combination of Lucas and Virgil is always a treat for me.

Once again, Sandford has done it! How is it possible for one person to write so many great thrillers? I'm not sure, but even after 32 Prey novels, he's showing no signs of slowing down. Possibly even speeding up, with his series expanding to include his sometimes partner Virgil Flowers and now his daughter Lettie. Whatever he's having in his coffee, I hope he keeps it up, and to continue to write such incredible books! This book reunites the main Prey character, Lucas Davenport, with Virgil Flowers. To watch the way these two play off of each other is worth the price of the book, even without the plot. But, not to worry, the plot is fantastic! I found it to be impossible to put this book down! The pacing, the tension, the excitement, how could anyone sleep without finishing it? The only drawback is that now I will have to wait several months (please, Sandford, no longer than that!) for the next book. Incredible read! Thanks to NetGalley for giving me the privilege to read and review an ARC of this book.

This is a well done and engaging read. Although the 32nd in the series (I have only read one other the first one), but still works well as a stand alone novel. The story involves Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers who are the two ongoing characters in the book series. This one involves an unusual murder club of sorts. I will eventually go back and read all of the series in order. I received a free Kindle copy of this book courtesy of NetGalley and the publisher with the understanding that I would post a review on Net Galley, Goodreads, Amazon and my nonfiction book review blog.

“The world has only so much room for people like her, and occasionally, one of them has to go.” An analysis offered to U.S. Marshall Lucas Davenport by an unsympathetic neighbor of Hillary Sikes, after her housekeeper discovered her dead body inside her garage. After someone murdered Sikes in the Twin Cities, Davenport and his frequent sidekick, Minnesota BCA agent Virgil Flowers, get involved in the investigation, along with the FBI. The FBI gets involved because it turned out Sikes was the third victim killed by a group of vigilantes billing themselves as The Five, who according to the bizarre press releases they send after every murder, are on a mission to “help rid America of its assholes.” And the murders occurred in three different states. Most people who knew Sikes agreed she deserved the epithet, as did the other two victims. Davenport observes, “Nobody cares that assholes are being killed.” But he recognizes The Five “are psychos” that must be stopped. He isn’t wrong, since the killings continue. While the murderers seem to well plan and meticulously carry out each murder with an eye for escaping identification, the person who killed Sikes made an uncharacteristic mistake, which through good police work, Davenport and Flowers uncover. That leads to the man’s identity. Eventually, thanks mostly to the efforts of Davenport and Flowers, the FBI accumulates enough evidence to arrest Sike’s killer and hopes they can pressure him into giving up his accomplices. But when he makes bail, someone murders him and he is only the first of The Five who becomes a murder victim in this complex plot. The good guys wonder if someone is cleaning up loose ends. The case takes Davenport and Flowers from coast to coast, along with points in between. You can always rely on Sandford to serve up an imaginative plot, but with this novel I think he outdid himself. Two other things make Righteous Prey a notable addition to the series. First, it contains a lot of current events like the waning COVID pandemic, the growing prominence of Bitcoin, and current growing division and animosity between conservatives and liberals in the United States. The other is the side story about Virgil Flowers and his budding side gig as a crime fiction author. Both add interest to the story. This is vintage Davenport with a full slate of psychopathic evil doers and Lucas treating every murder investigation as a competition to be won. Davenport and Flowers fans won’t want to miss this one, and anyone who enjoys an entertaining crime thriller will enjoy Righteous Prey. The ending may not be as satisfying as we often want, as far as every evildoer facing the cold realities of justice, but Sandford never promises us a happy ending every time. The only real criticism I can offer, is like all Prey novels, you reach the last page far sooner than you wanted. That’s especially true for readers like me who inhale more than read John Sandford’s enjoyable and compelling books. I received an advance copy of the book from the publisher via NetGalley used for this review, which represents my honest opinions.

"Righteous Prey" is John Sandford's 32 "Prey" novel which contains both Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers as the main protagonists. If you have read any of the "Prey" series or any of the "Virgil Flowers" series you pretty much know what to expect from a new "Prey" novel. "Righteous Prey" fits the mold and does not disappoint. For me, reading "Righteous Prey" is like being engulfed in a comfortable and familiar blanket. You know the type that is just perfect for a cool and blustery day -- that's what this book was for me with well written characters that I have grown to enjoy reading over the years. And I enjoyed every heart racing moment as it raced to the end. Sandford provides another thrilling chapter for both Davenport and Flowers. Both are decent men as characters, yet flawed. But not too flawed to do what is right. Both men are getting to points in their law enforcement careers where they typically work on high profile cases. With Davenport as U.S. Marshall who essentially picks and chooses cases that he finds "interesting" or cases asked to look into by his political friends and Flowers who is still with Minnesota's Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) but is also a budding novelist with a fairly decent library of work written for various nature publications. "Righteous Prey" gets both Davenport and Flowers involved in hunting a wealthy group of killers calling themselves the Five who are hell bent on killing a specific type of individual. Individuals who they feel are a detriment to society and generally a$$holes (Sandford's word, not mine but I have to admit it fits). The Five have all become rich on the wave of Bitcoin's popularity and getting in early on it. They are essentially rich and bored, a bit entitled, self-proclaimed vigilantes who are all set to kill for sport and rid the world of people they have predetermined as bottom feeders. To take it a step further, they have press releases for their kills along with a generous donation of a Bitcoin (one each for five total) to a charity that will be able to use the money to combat the types of wrongs done by their targets. If you are fan of gritty crime thrillers you should like the latest edition to the "Prey" series. If you are a fan of either Davenport or Flowers you won't be surprised and you will most likely enjoy their latest adventures. I hope that you enjoy it as much as I did.

Review originally published April 29, 2021 I confess I don't read poetry that much, but I am glad I went ahead and read The Hill We Climb: An Inaugural Poem for the Country (2021). Written by the youngest poet yet to give a poetry reading at a presidential inauguration, Amanda Gorman's poem "The Hill We Climb" is powerful, sobering, and uplifting all at the same time. While critics of the poem pointed out that it was cliché and full of platitudes, I found "The Hill We Climb" communicating deeper, rather than shallower, ideas regarding America's reckoning with its history as we move into the future. I don't disagree with the critics about the presence of platitudes in places, but what did they expect out of a poem given at a ceremony full of pomp and circumstance and patriotic symbolism? Generally, inaugurations are times of hope, proof that American democracy persists with the peaceful transfer of power between administrations. It's a time for a president to broadcast their big ideas for the nation, with the idea of motivating citizens to step up to the challenge. Moreover, coming after the events of January 6th, the hope that exudes from Gorman's writing despite everything that's gone on lately is something we all could use a little more of these days. No one wants fire and brimstone! I would imagine it was a difficult balance for Gorman, trying to be both happy and uplifting without missing the sobering and serious nature of America's historical wrongs and their legacy in the present. All in all, I think she navigated this balance wonderfully. In the present moment, we grapple still with the COVID pandemic and the aftermath of a contentious transition of administrations. Gorman communicates to us in "The Hill We Climb" that we are not a perfect nation, but what matters is that after being knocked down many times, each time we get up and continue the work towards a more perfect union. A message of hopeful resiliency that is a refreshing change of pace. -Cora Find this book and other titles within our catalog.

Let's face it: No one needed this formulaic foreword by Oprah, but the poem and its delivery are GREAT.

"There is always light, if only we're brave enough to see it. If only we're brave enough to be it." -Amanda Gorman This beautiful, inspirational poem, by the immensely talented Amanda Gorman, was the perfect way to close the door on one of the darkest periods in U.S. history. Amanda's recitation of this poem at the Presidential inauguration left my whole family in tears. Personally, I was so happy to see the emergence of this wonderful new role model for my daughter, at the same time that we swore in our first female vice president. Truly a moment to remember forever. Now let's all hope we can live up to the ideals set forth by Amanda at this turning point in history.

"We will not march back to what was, But move on to what shall be: A country that is bruised but whole, Benevolent but bold, Fierce and free." I watched Amanda performing this at the inauguration and was absolutely blown away. Reading the words months later in a book itself was a spectacular experience too. (If you haven't seen Amanda speaking at the ceremony, go fix that!!! It's really too good.) And I am even more excited to read her debut poetry collection. Her way with words is so powerful and soothing. (And the USA has a loooooong way to go with practicing democracy, but this poem definitely comforted me.)

September 30,2021 Re-read : We've braved the belly of the beast. We've learned that quiet isn't always peace, And the norms and notions of what "just is" Isn't always justice. I listened to the audiobook while reading this book. To be honest, I didn't really care for Oprah's foreward and personally preferred Gorman's reading at the inauguration over the reading from the audiobook version. However, the more I read this, the more I realized that the reason why I like Amanda Gorman's poetry so much is because it's easy to read and understand, while maintaining great rhythm and lyricism. The writing is also just so beautiful! I can't get enough of Amanda Gorman. January 20, 2021 Review : I've never watched any of the past US inaugurations, but when Amanda Gorman shared the glorious news that she was selected as the official inaugural poet for the 2021 inauguration, I knew I had to tune in (and I did)! If you haven't watched it, you can find it here. I've been following Gorman in social media since last summer and (for some reason) feel immensely proud of her well-deserved fame and success and am super happy that all three of her books ( Change Sings - a picture book set to release later this year, The Hill We Climb - the collection of poems under the same title as this one, as well as The Hill We Climb: An Inaugural Poem for the Country ) took the top three spots on the Amazon bestseller list!

This is possibly the most moving piece of poetry I have ever heard. I'm not an American, but on inauguration day I found myself in awe of this young Black girl with the hands of a dancer and the heart of a woman forced to be much wiser than her years. I found myself in tears. Amanda Gorman's spirit moved me then, and it moved me once again while listening to this audiobook. I can only hope that America, and the world, can live up to the potential of this young woman's words. Words that soar so seamlessly into our hearts, giving them wings to fly. "For there is always light, if only we’re brave enough to see it. If only we’re brave enough to be it.” VIDEO REVIEW: https://youtu.be/38cwhWXXnds You can find me on... Youtube | Instagram | Twitter Thank you to Libro.fm for providing an ALC of The Hill We Climb.

I enjoy reading Ms Gorman's poem as much as I did hearing it the first time at the inauguration. Brilliant, not just considering her young age.

I don't usually like poetry or understand it but Amanda Gorman is awesome and inspirational.

Although I’m not a poetry buff, I enjoyed reading and savoring Ms. Gorman’s verses as much as when I first heard them recited at the inauguration. “The new dawn blooms as we free it, For there is always light, If only we’re brave enough to see it, If only we’re brave enough to be it.”

The beginning of 2021 was a time of heightened emotion. We had been in the COVID-19 Pandemic for almost a year, and it rages on still. Communities all over America expressed their anger, hurt, dismay, and fear after the murder of George Floyd. Our mental, physical, and emotional health as a nation had hit rock bottom. And then Amanda Gorman read her poem at the 2021 Inauguration of Joe Biden titled: The Hill We Climb. She effortlessly spoke of that darkness but also gave way to a hopeful light. She put into words the emotions that so many people were struggling to comprehend. “When day comes, we ask ourselves where can we find light in this never-ending shade? The loss we carry, a sea we must wade. We’ve braved the belly of the beast. We’ve learned that quiet isn’t always peace, and the norms and notions of what “just” is isn’t always justice. And yet, the dawn is ours before we knew it.” AMANDA GORMAN “We’ve learned that quiet isn’t always peace.” Those words are powerful. Amanda Gorman is not just a Youth Poet Laureate but also an activist and has dreams of one day becoming President of the United States. Quite honestly, she stole the show at the inauguration. I can just imagine all those beautiful little girls of color seeing her command the attention of the Nation. I hope to see more of Amanda Gorman. If her leadership is anything like her poetry, we will be in good hands. There are not enough stars in the sky to rate this poem. “That is the promise to glade, the hill we climb, if only we dare. It’s because being American is more than a pride we inherit. It’s the past we step into and how we repair it.” AMANDA GORMAN

In this truth, in this faith, we trust. For while we have our eyes on the future, History has its eyes on us

On 20 January 2021, I was incredibly moved by Amanda Gorman's address at President Biden's Inauguration. Gorman was the youngest presidential inaugural poet in US history and she definitely made an impression on those present that reverberated around the world. Watching her deliver her poem entitled The Hill We Climb, I was excited by this young mind and my admiration for her continues to grow. Receiving a stunning hardback copy of The Hill We Climb for Christmas, I made sure to read this exactly a year to the day of the Inauguration event and was still moved by her words. They're just as relevant now as they were then and I doubt her message will ever date. Reading it every other day since then, (it's only 27 pages long), I decided to read her words while watching the video footage from that auspicious day in preparation for this review. Gorman eloquently delivers a message of promise and hope, and in doing so, she has given every American a vision to aspire to: "Because being American is more than a pride we inherit - It's the past we step into, and how we repair it." Page 17 The Hill We Climb is inspiring to read, and watching Gorman's gestures, cadence, rhythm and delivery style elevates the experience to a whole new level. If you haven't heard, watched or read The Hill We Climb by Amanda Gorman, I heartily recommend you do. It'll be the best 6 mins or 27 pages you'll ever experience. In the meantime, I'll leave you with my favourite section of the poem: "In this truth, in this faith, we trust. For while we have our eyes on the future, History has its eyes on us." Page 19

The audiobook is everything. Going to listen to it every time I need a pick me up. Especially with everything happening with Daunte Wright and continued hate towards the AAPI community. "We close the divide, because we know to put Our future first, we must first Put our differences aside."

A year ago I listened to Amanda Gorman recite her inaugural poem and felt hope for the future. Reading the poem now gave me a much needed reminder that “there is always light, if only we’re brave enough to see it, if only we’re brave enough to be it.”

… being American is more than a pride we inherit - It’s the past we step into, and how we repair it ~ Amanda Gorman Our record may skip and sound broken - keep playing the words over and over. Until one day we reminisce. What was, is not. What will be, is ~ Patience Phillips So be it? See to it! ~ Octavia E Butler 🇺🇸 Dear fellow citizens, In remembrance of serving in the United States military, struggle for equitable humanity amongst ourselves within America, and what it means to be creative thought today it’d be fun to read the inaugural poem. Share inspirational quotes and thoughts rather then one more review on what’s already a stand alone review of what was, is, and possibilities for everyone who loves their homeland like I do. Kind regards, Patience Phillips

This poem gave me chills the first time I heard it. I listened to it on audio today and it’s still just as impressive and magnificent.

"Let the globe, if nothing else, say this is true: That even as we grieved, we grew, That even as we hurt, we hoped, That even as we tired, we tried. That we'll forever be tied together." While I'm not partial to poetry on the norm, this poem holds a special place for me and I'm sure many others. This one has feeling and heart and will forever be tied to such a positive turn in the tide for our country!

Is it the best poem I've ever read? No. Was it perfect for that moment? Yes. I thought it would be weird to read it, after Gorman's fantastic performance, but I enjoyed it greatly. It has a slightly different vibe on paper, a different rythm - at least for me.

You have my vote for President already. A legend.

Gave me chills (okay and big ol' tears) back in January and again today. Incandescent!

For there is always light, If only we’re brave enough to see it, If only we’re brave enough to be it.

Graceful perfection. A must read. {Thank you to Penguin Random House Audio for gifting me a copy of The Hill We Climb by Amanda Gorman.} When Amanda Gorman took the stage and read this poem at the Biden/Harris inauguration I shed so many wracking tears. Her poise and grace is astounding and refreshing...and oh so inspiring. I'm so thankful to have gotten this gifted audiobook to listen to repeatedly (3x now). This audiobook is read by the author, with a beautiful forward by Oprah Winfrey. What more can I possibly say about this poem and this poet that hasn’t already been said? Full of grit, hope, resilience, healing, and wisdom - this is exactly the message we need in our lives right now. This is required reading/listening. Go treat yourself to this magic.

Let the globe, if nothing else, say this is true: That even as we grieved, we grew, That even as we hurt, we hoped, That even as we tired, we tried. That we'll forever be tied together. Victorious, Not because we will never again know defeat, But because we will never again sow division Thank you to Penguin Teen for sending me this book. Honestly, to see this book in my hands is so powerful. I highly recommend this book, grab you a copy to have a copy of history.

Even a year after Amanda Gorman recited this poem at the inauguration of President Joseph R. Biden, it's still resonating strongly with me - her chosen words are so simple yet so strong. Simply amazing - I can't wait to read Call Us What We Carry!

Beautiful and timely So beautifully written. An inspiring piece by a wise young woman. I really enjoyed reading over the words We watched this poet recite in inauguration dat, it was a pleasure.

“...quiet isn't always peace, and the norms and notions of what just is, isn't always justice.” Pure, simple, utter brilliance. Powerful. 💛

It’s April 2061 and Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her partner Detective Delia Peabody are called to the murder scene of pediatrician Dr. Kent Abner when suddenly Eve realizes that he died from a toxin released from a recently delivered golden egg. Once they’re cleared by the hazmat team, Dallas and her team get to work to track down the origin and why a beloved, revered doctor and family man was so viciously targeted. This story had everything I love about the series! Initial inquiries led nowhere and this quickly devolved to lots of dead ends until there was another similar crime. The police procedurals were excellent and I had fun following the investigative paths. When the story shifts to the identification of the target, it was almost exhilarating to watch the case come together. Interview was so, so satisfying. There’s also a different tone to the series that’s been developing over the past few books. Eve and Roarke’s relationship is deepening, she’s beginning to become more comfortable having the other relationships in her life and the interactions are much more meaningful and impactful. The familiar elements are all there but are shaped heartwarmingly. Eve hasn’t lost her edge, just smoothed them out a bit. It’s a natural growth that I’m loving. This was a fitting story for the 50th book in the series. (I received an ARC from Macmillan in exchange for an honest review.)

GOLDEN IN DEATH by J. D. Robb (pseudonym for Nora Roberts) brings murder, mystery, romance and suspense to a well-written futuristic police procedural and romantic suspense set in New York City in April 2061. This is the fiftieth book in the In Death Eve Dallas series and I have read all of them up to this point. This story starts with pediatrician Dr. Kent Abner receiving a package. When he opens the inner trinket, airborne fumes kill him. Our protagonist, Lieutenant Eve Dallas of the NYC police department, leads a team of homicide detectives and is soon on the scene along with her partner, Detective Delia Peabody. Questions arise while Eve calls in the hazmat team, undergoes testing and interviews those in the house. Who would kill a well-loved doctor? Was he really that innocent? What was the toxic substance? Are those that were first on the scene at risk? It’s always entertaining to spend time with Eve, her billionaire husband, Roarke, their friends, and Eve’s colleagues. She is definitely a compelling and three-dimensional character. Her need to serve and protect comes through in every book, but the underlying impetus for this is best understood by reading this series in order. Due to the way Eve was raised, she often doesn’t understand commonly used phrases and this comes into play a few times in this book making her seem more real and less perfect. As always, the interactions between Eve and Roarke are enjoyable and bring a different facet of Eve’s personality to light. In this novel several of the reoccurring characters play very minor roles or are only mentioned in passing. However, Peabody plays a bigger role and shows both her ability to bring thoughtful and intelligent perspectives to the case as well as actually getting assertive when a witness belittles her family, her education, and her colleague. This story managed to give more emotions and life to Delia; giving her character significant growth. The prose is well-written, entertaining, and engaging. The plot is interesting, thought-provoking and intense. While this book has some action, it is mostly a police procedural. The case is complex and challenging with numerous suspects that have to be interviewed and researched and a motivation for murder that needs to be discovered. It is tragic in places and uplifting in others. Robb is an author that manages to embed humor in her novels, providing some much needed levity to offset some of the more serious and grim aspects of the story. If you enjoy engaging near-future police procedurals with some romance, then I recommend this series. Overall, it is entertaining, and over time, it is like spending time with old friends. I have the next book in the series and can’t wait to read it. I recommend reading these books in order to gain more insight into the characters and their backgrounds. I purchased a digital copy of this novel. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own and are not biased in any way. Publication date was February 4, 2020. This review was originally posted at Mystery and Suspense Magazine.

Thank you, St. Martin’s Press, for the gifted copy. I have been missing out, y’all. I have several reading friends who told me I was by not trying the In Death series, but wow, yes, I was. The series is pure entertainment with a fierce female character, loads of tension, and twists that keep you guessing. I was told by the publisher that these books can stand on their own, and they absolutely can, but since I’ve only read one other In Death book besides this one (which was also BRILLIANT), I am eager to learn more about Eve and see how she develops over the course of FIFTY books. Can you believe that? Fifty books? Amazing! I can’t even wrap my head around that 48 more page-turners like this one (and the other one I read!) exist. I’ll be fitting these into my TBR wherever I can. Many of my reviews can also be found on instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader

I'm so happy to read about Eve and Roarke and another good mystery! This series is highly addictive, as you all very well know! :) I loved the mystery part. It was well thought and well executed! The how and, most of all, the why! Even if, after 50 books, I'm ostly used to all the futuristic features, I still enjoy them! Who wouldn't? They're all so true to what we have now that I almost call my mobile phone a 'link! LOL I appreciate that the author gave us the usual Somerset and Eve's banter that I've missed in the previous book! And also the sweet Mr. Mira!!! We don't have here is Mavis and Leonardo and Bella and also Nadine... Well, not everybody can be present every time! I know that I would complain if they were all present all the time! LOL But what is stellar in ALL the books is the dialogue! The banter, the wit! Rarely I've read better! And, with sorrow in my hear, I'll have to wait for the next book!!!

This is the 50th book in this series and while I am reading them sporadically I am still greatly enjoying it. This murder that Dallas catches is a spouse of a prep school headmaster who receives a package with a check golden egg containing a lethal toxin that killed the man instantly. I liked this mystery that was tied to the past in such a fun way and it was a particularly satisfying interview with the bad person in the end. There wasn’t enough Roarke for me in this one, but what was there it was great as usual. This one was good but the investigation went a little too smoothly for me, but it was the distraction I wanted today.

We are up to book #50 in this series, and there’s just no new way for me to talk about it… I read the last three available books one after another and now I’m sad… cause I will have to wait for the new installments like the rest of the world ;) if you haven’t picked up this series yet, I highly encourage you to give them a try, and here are some of the reasons why in a totally random order :) #1 Eve… our heroine is one of my all time favourite characters :) the journey she goes throughout this whole series is phenomenal… from a detective, basically without friends, to work promotions, developing all sorts of relationships and connections, facing her extremely dark and painful past… *sighs* I’m just so proud of her #2 Roarke… tall and handsome, not to mention mysterious gazillionaire with irish accent… need I say more? ;) his relationship with Eve is phenomenal, his support for her and her work is beautiful and I just love how they are there for each other and grow as a couple… #3 each book concentrates on a different homicide case, that is solved within that story, so even though they can technically be read as standalones and out of order I highly recommend you to read them in order, because… #4 characters and relationships ;) the further we get into the series, the more characters are introduced… and most of them appear on multiple occasions in those books :) I love it, because in each installment, especially in the later ones, we get a small scene here and there that will mean that much more to you if you read the books in order, to see the development of all those friendships and romances :) This is hands down one of my all time favourite series and I cannot recommend it enough ;) go check it out :) disclaimer until further notice, I will be adding this little disclaimer at the end of all my reviews… without boring you with unnecessary details I will say this… I’ve been in a writing slump for a while now… it’s happened before, but usually didn’t last very long… it’s connected to a lot of different things in my life, but all those details are personal so I won’t get into them right now… this time unfortunately it’s been already six weeks and it doesn't look like it’s gonna change anytime soon… in all this time I was unable to sit down and write reviews for the books I’ve been reading… and I don’t want to wait any longer, cause I already accumulated quite a few to do… so going forward I will be just writing a very short ones… with maybe an exception here and there if I feel like it ;) I don't want to put pressure on myself to write long and detailed reviews that I used to do for the longest time… instead I will try and add some links to other reviews here on Goodreads if I see ones that I feel share my thoughts and opinions on the stories I read… in the meantime I wish you all happy reading :) XOXO A

I have been reading this series since book #1 hit the stores many years ago and I will never stop. Dallas is a great protagonist, Roarke has been my BBF since book #1 and all the rest of the cast of main characters are like family. The plots are always interesting, exciting, and engaging. Best long running series I read, and may it never stop. HAPPY 50TH BOOK!

One of the things I really appreciate about JD Robb books is that they combine romance (Eve and Roarke are delicious) with a really good homicide mystery. Usually a serial killer who repeats their crimes, the crimes are different and unusual. I also love the sci fi element! The original book (Naked In Death) was set in 2058 and this is book 50! So the reader gets to enjoy reading about Pepsi tubes, and automated coffee machines, and auto chef...plus cool technology in terms of forensics. Golden in Death was really good, but I think that many readers are getting tired of the same types of plot scenarios. I am still wildly attached to Eve and Roarke and all their friends so I enjoyed it!!!

I still love them! Although some of the books in this series are more police drama than romance, it's still a good series. We've stepped back from the tragic beginning of Eve's life (although I would like a few stories from her upbringing. Maybe a friend from high school?) And we've matched up most of her side characters (maybe time for fresh blood. Someone we thought we knew, but didn't. Did you ever see the episode of Bones with the Gormagon and Zach Addy? Like that.) Also she and Roarke have settled into married life with fewer problems (I'll bet his work life is still cutthroat. Or how about if he is captured by some woman who wants to use his hot bod and Eve must rescue him?) (not that I'm volunteering. heehee) Anyway, in this book we have an interesting twist on the goose and the golden egg. (Jack and the Beanstalk are doomed) Random people are being murdered and its up to Eve and the gang to find the link so they can find the murderer before more random packages of death can be delivered.

Another hit by J.D. Robb. I've seen some reviews that were less than the usual rave. I liked this book, yes it took a while to really get moving, but I admire the investigative work and the bantering between Eve and Peabody. There were hints as to who was behind the "evil" deeds, but no solid hint as to who it was until much later in the book. 2 thumbs up and 5 stars - and alas, 6 more months until the next installment! From the blurb: Pediatrician Kent Abner received the package on a beautiful April morning. Inside was a cheap trinket, a golden egg that could be opened into two halves. When he pried it apart, highly toxic airborne fumes entered his body - and killed him. After Eve Dallas calls the hazmat team - and undergoes testing to reassure both her and her husband that she hasn't been exposed - it's time to look into Dr. Abner's past and relationships. Not every victim Eve encounters is an angel, but it seems that Abner came pretty close - though he did ruffle some feathers over the years by taking stands for the weak and defenseless. While the lab tries to identify the deadly toxin, Eve hunts for the sender. But when someone else dies in the same grisly manner, it becomes clear that she's dealing with either a madman - or someone who has a hidden and elusive connection to both victims.

How to count the ways that J.D. Robb writes superb thrillers? Superbness One: I love the fantasy world she creates. (For that reason, I'll shelve all her books I review as "fantasy," not just as "thriller.") Robbs' version of my home town, NYC, in the future? It's just enough far in the future. I love that version, especially with the discreetly added "slang" of that imagined era. Superbness Two: The humanity of all those characters. At this writing, I just finished listening to Dallas and Peabody's interview-at-home of their first female suspect. So touching, so nuanced -- the emotions turned on a dime. (No spoiler from me about that scene will be included in this review, but if you've read that part of the book you know how unexpectedly moving it was. At least that's how it read for this listener-reader.) Superbness Three: Suspenseful plots that gather momentum. Obv, right? Robb is a master of pacing. Superbness Four: Love those gorgeous girly-girl details: Between the lavish panoramas of interior design in the homes of wealthy characters; all of the delectable conflict of Eve Dallas's super-gorgeous wardrobe -- poor kid, being showered with ultra-fab gifts by her amazingly ultra-ultra husband Roarke. Likewise, Eve Dallas happens to be just as gorgeous as her husband, who's an adorable superhero kind of fantasy lover come true, one of the richest men in the universe, super-great at hacking computers, etc. As part of that particular superbness, sometimes makeup and hair are provided by wacky Trina. Aaaaah, I love to read all that. Such vicarious glam, alternating with perpetual annoyance by anti-fashion-sense Eve!!!!! Superbness Five: These novels are exactly formulaic enough. To my taste, anyway, J.D. Robb books have a predictable structure overall, culminating in the definite-and-scathing punishment of the miscreant. Sooooooooo satisfying, delightfully predictable! To me, this series reads like the best of the classic gazillion episodes of "Law and Order" TV series (which I'm now watching for the third time). In "Law and Order" -- unfortunately, though plausibly -- sometimes the bad guys and gals get away with their crimes. However, in mysteries where Dallas and Peabody are on the job, that happens... exactly... never.

Has any other series hit 50 books? It's a remarkable achievement. I've been reading these from the beginning as I loved the few random ones I'd read. I know enough that there's o huge spoilers with the people in the book and anyway each one reads as a fine stand alone. This time we have chemical warfare as two people are sent gifts which release a deadly toxin. One thing I liked having read the first 16 and then this is that for once the killer doesn't have a fixation on Eve or husband Roarke. That felt from the earlier ones like a a bit was forming so it's good to see criminals having a different agenda. The characters are well established by now. If you are new to the books you can get a good feel for who everyone is and if you've read a few or all you know what you're getting. I was a little sad that some characters like Mavis are only in this through conversation rather than character this time but you can't have everything. It's quite fast paced this one with a bit of a race against time and I liked the fact that as well as the killer there's another big bad that kind of gets taken down alongside. Another great book and here's to the next 50

Wow, 50 books in and still riveting. This was a fun one, with people getting this little golden egg in the mail, only to discover it contains a nerve agent (related to sarin gas) that kills quickly and brutally. Some deeply sad moments, with the victims. But it was a wonderful case for the team as they were firing on all cylinders trying to stop the lunatic responsible. And as always, some truly lovely moments with Roarke and Eve. They've grown into such an amazing, 3-dimensional, solid relationship - I recently re-read the opening trilogy, and it is a beautiful thing to see how far they've come.

Golden in Death by J.D. Robb is the 50th book in the futuristic In Death series featuring bad-ass Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her incredibly unique investigative skills. As with all of Robb’s In Death books, it’s not hard to fall in love with the cast of main characters. They are a bit like family and I love them just as they are; the good, the bad, and a little bit snarky. Golden in Death begins with Lt. Eve Dallas and Detective Peabody investigating a case in which a toxin filled golden egg is delivered to a well-loved physician and trying to figure out why he was targeted. There are red-herrings and dead ends but the team is dogged and determined to get to the bottom of the mysterious deaths. Of course, tech guru Rourke makes his appearances to offer aid to Eve and Peabody in the case. Eve and Rourke’s personal relationship is just as sweet as ever with Eve seeming to accept that she needs him more than she wants to admit and she is all the better for it. The side characters are entertaining and the big bad was a surprise. Twists, turns, and a fast-moving plot made Golden in Death an extraordinary read and as with all of Robb’s books, I had a hard time putting it down. This a fantastic book for any fan of the series, J.D. Robb, or the suspense/mystery/thriller genre! A big thank you to Macmillan for the gifted copy of GOLDEN IN DEATH by J.D. Robb in exchange for an honest review!

I have been reading the Naked In Death series since the first book was published in 1995. I lived in Seattle, Washington area at the time and fell hard core for the two main characters Eve Dallas and Roarke. Their chemistry sizzled off the pages. I continue to read each book...and though I do not always think each book sizzles like the first ten or so, the characters in the novel are still my favorites! The Naked in Death series has something for everyone- futuristic homicide detective who puts her victims first and the bad boy that reformed his life and stole her heart! I like the way author J.D. Robb (also known as Nora Roberts) lays out the crimes and leads the reader on an adventure to solve the crime.

This is easily my favorite ongoing series. I eventually give up on most series because the need to continue creating conflict starts to get tiring. But In Death is episodic and the conflict is usually murder, so it doesn't get exasperating. If you're looking for something to get you through the long, lonely hours of quarantine, I highly recommend this series. As for this particular story, it was kind of an easy case for Eve. I really enjoyed it, especially the evidence side of things, but I think it further supports my theory that the best books are those which feature cases that leave Eve an emotional or physical wreck. Pretty sure the next book is gonna be a doozy.

Wow! 50 books in this series and each one is as good as, or better than the last. I had read that J.D. Robb may have the largest fan base of any living author. Anyone that has read more than one book in this series…spent sometime with Eve & Roark and Galahad, the cat…Peabody and McNabb and all the other regular wonderful characters…can not only agree 100% but can totally understand why this is true. For me…aside from the characters… what I really like is that we…the reader…get to ride along with Eve and Peabody through each and every phase of the investigation. We see how they come to each conclusion and are right there when the bad guy faces justice. I don’t know that there is anything that needs to be improved on to make the stories any better…I just hope that we get to read number 100 sometime in the future.

JD Robb never disappoints. I enjoyed this trip of vengeance gone wrong.

4.5* Another fun Eve Dallas book from the grand mistress of romance! This is the 50th book in this series and I have read all of them. Needless to say, I love the characters and the world. This time, Eve and her team are investigating murders of people who have no enemies. They're good, law-abiding, loving people. So, why were they targeted? Eve and her team do their usual investigative magic. I listened to this as an audiobook. It's really entertaining, especially on my commute. I appreciate that the narrator is the same as the previous books in the series. This way, the "voices" for the characters stay the same.

Golden in Death, the 50th book in J.D. Robb’s In Death series, brings just what we expect from a tale in this addictive series, and that translates to an outstanding mystery and a fantastic journey with old friends! To say that Golden in Death did not disappoint is a major understatement; it was great! The special connection between Eve and Roark, the humor and friendship between Eve and Peabody, and a good taste of Eve’s relationship with her bullpen are all there as captivating as the intriguing murder mystery. After a short slump a few years ago, the series has regained that old feeling and I am loving it. I did miss time with a few of my favorite secondary characters, but I realize that there can only be so many pages in a book, and we see plenty of our favorites. This investigation stands up to any of the other books in its complexity, and the emotional connection is as riveting as the best of the series. I love watching Eve’s mind work as she puzzles through the clues and enjoy seeing Peabody’s contribution increase as her experience has grown. I get great satisfaction and a few laughs when the culprits, who think they are unbeatable, realize that the detectives really are way ahead of them. I love J.D. Robb’s In Death series and cannot wait to get my hands on each book. You can imagine how thrilled I was to get an ARC via Edelweiss. I would be shouting about this awesome book no matter how I first acquired a copy! satisfaction and a few laughs when the culprits, who think they are unbeatable, realize that the detectives really are way ahead of them.

A joyful pre-wedding party celebration turning into a murder scene will immediately pull readers into the story in Passions in Death, the fifty-ninth book in J. D. Robb’s well-written futuristic police procedural set in August, 2061 in New York City. This series features homicide Lieutenant Eve Dallas, her partner, Detective Delia Peabody, and her husband, Roarke, along with an assortment of regular secondary characters. The two brides, Erin Albright and Shauna Hunnicut, and their friends are having a girls’ night out five days prior to the wedding. One bride has a surprise for the other and has rented a private room to prepare for the big reveal. However, someone has a surprise planned for her. Dallas and Peabody arrive on the scene, but useful witnesses are hard to find. Can they find the murderer? Time spent with Dallas, Roarke, Peabody, and their colleagues and friends is always entertaining. Eve is honorable, honest, a detailed planner, has strong moral principles, and has a strong sense of duty to victims and their families. Her need to serve and protect comes through in every book, but the underlying impetus for this is best understood by reading this series in order. Her ability to think through scenarios and latch onto the most likely one is uncanny and fascinating to see unfold. It’s compelling to see how Eve’s mind works getting a better and better picture of the killer. As always, the interactions between Dallas and Roarke as well as with their friends and her homicide team are enjoyable and bring different facets of her personality to light. I thought the scene between Dallas and Roarke when he was angry about a work-related issue added insight into how far their relationship has come during the series. Murder, suspense, and drama immediately pull readers into the storyline. The author continues to use prose to elicit a strong emotional response from readers. She also is skilled in using humor to bring out character personalities as well as to offset some of the more serious aspects of the story. Complex plots, strong characters, excellent pacing, and delightful relationships are a constant in this series. Woven through the novel are threads of friendship, standing for victims, complicated relationships, ego, justice, trust, anger, found family, jealousy, manipulation, and much more. Robb is an excellent storyteller who combines a clever plot with gripping scenes, lots of solid police investigation, and engaging characters with depth. Besides the investigation, Dallas’s strong investigative techniques and her relationships with Roarke, her friends, and her colleagues drive the narrative. It has the right balance of mystery, police investigation, romance, and creative twists. While it was a little too easy to discern who the killer was, the full motivation took some time to become apparent. Overall, this novel was an emotional and twisty tale with great characterization that kept me engaged throughout the story. If you enjoy intriguing near-future police procedurals with a strong female lead, then I recommend this series. I can’t wait to read the next book. St. Martin’s Press and J.D. Robb provided a complimentary digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. All opinions expressed in this review are my own. Publication date is currently set for September 03, 2024. ------------------------------------------ My 4.59 rounded to 5 stars review is coming soon.

Passions in Death by J D Robb In Death series #59. Futuristic police procedural. Homicide Lieutenant Eve Dallas is awakened by a phone call from dispatch about a murder at the Down and Dirty club. A bride has been killed in one of the private rooms at a pre-wedding girls’ night party. Roarke goes with Eve to the bar, knowing she’s had her own history of assault in those private rooms. But Eve will have to put that aside now as she works the current case where no one saw anything helpful and the bar has no cameras to pull from. 🎧 I listened to an audiobook of this novel narrated by Susan Erickson who does the majority of the series. There is a specific accented voice for Roarke, and of course, Eve, Peabody and a couple of other regulars. To be honest, it took me a couple of books to get used to the narrator since it wasn’t what I used to from originally reading the series. She has grown on me and I now appreciate the continuity as well as hearing these characters come to life. I do listen at 1.5 to more closely match my reading speed and conversations. I Laughed out loud when Eve Dallas is using the beverage machine in the police station and at the end of the transaction, it says thank you to Detective Baxter! Hilarious. Dallas is using someone else’s code because she’s been restricted. She has a history of bad language and hitting and kicking the machine. Too funny. There was also some seldom heard sentimentality from Eve about being married and how nice it is. Then she and Roarke walked among peach trees in their back yard and she remembers planting one. We know they are happy together but these sweet acknowledgments were touching to hear. A wonderful addition to the series. I received a copy of the from NetGalley and publisher Macmillan Audio.

This was excellent! The party is at a club called The Down and Dirty, it’s in celebration of an upcoming wedding and the brides couldn’t be happier! Everyone’s having a great time, one of the brides is dancing up on stage, half naked. Perfect time for the other bride to disappear into one of the back rooms. She had planned a big surprise for the woman she loved but unfortunately someone was there to see the surprise wouldn’t happen. The MARRIAGE was not meant to happen.

This is book 59 in this series and while I have only read about 10 or so books (scattered of course) I could follow and enjoy this one. I will admit reading them in order does enhance it a bit (for instance there was a cameo in this one from a small player in the last one which I read which was fun), but you can follow the story without that. This mystery did feel smaller in some ways to some that I have read, but it also explored friendship and had Eve doing some introspection on how her cases impacted her with some clear parallels between her and the victim. I enjoyed this one more than the last one I think because it felt deeper, but I do admit it is less action packed. I listened to the audiobook and loved the way the narrator brought everyone to life (except Peabody’s voice, that seemed silly honestly). Eve is called to the same club where she was attacked right before her own wedding to a party of women who had been celebrating two of the women’s impending marriage. But one of the brides has been murdered and Eve is determined to figure out who. I do have to admit this one was easier than most to solve (the only other possible suspect was way too obvious).

Passions In Death is the 59th book, and an excellent addition, in J.D. Robb's "In Death" series. On a hot summer night Lt. Eve Dallas is called to the Down & Dirty Club where a wild and crazy pre-wedding Girl's Night ends in murder. One of the brides-to-be has been murdered in a private room as she was preparing a surprise for her fiancee. Witnesses are difficult to come by, as most were partying in the club, but Eve will not stop until she finds the killer who destroyed the dreams of this bride to be. With each and every "In Death" book I love re-visiting all of the characters that I have come to know and care about. Always excellent narration by Susan Ericksen. Thank you to NetGalley and Macmillan Audio for an advanced copy of this audiobook.

This series will always flabbergast me, because it still remains a solid favorite even after 59 books. The format works well for a long series, because it's basically like a cop show, like CSI - each episode a new case, which is interesting to unpick, but after the first few you're really there for the characters. This big, diverse cast of characters that come to feel like family, with each book being a chance to catch up with them. Generally I wobble the rating between 4 and 5 stars, and that's always hinged on the level of the murder mystery in that book, because the characters are always a 5 to me. And if the murder mystery is firing on all cylinders because it is a particularly compelling case, or because it particularly impacts the characters, it gets a 5. I liked this case - even though it was terribly, terribly sad - because like Eve, I wobbled back and forth between two shitheads as the killer. It could easily have been either of them. And I liked the way it played out, with the one just being an entitled shithead, while the other is a murdering entitled shithead. This case was also fun because it had echoes of Eve's bachelorette party, something that made it a particularly compelling case for her. Not in a way that tore her up, but in a way that leaned hard on her empathy. But overall, the best thing about this series is always the characters, and I love that they have grown and changed over the course of the series. Eve and Roarke's relationship started out, imo, as fire - super passionate, super volatile, and they hurt each other often (mostly unintentionally). They were two people who didn't really know how to be in a relationship, but were drawn to each other in a way that could not be ignored. There's a middle stretch of books that were hard (not really middle, though, given the crazy count we're up to now - it was book 14 that made me so angry I almost quit the series, but that was the worst of it) as these two strong personalities banged against each other before learning to become partners. But now that they have, it just gets stronger with each book, and their relationship is truly inspiring. Not the billionaire part (ha, though who would complain?) but the way they just completely get each other, and will go to the mattresses in support of each other. Serious relationship goals. Anyway, loved it, and I'm sure will gobble up the next when it releases.

Another blockbuster addition to the Eve and Roarke story! The audiobook is outstanding as the narrator does a phenomenal job of bringing the characters unique personalities to life with unique voices and actions. The mystery as always was well thought out and kept you on your toes guessing who did it! If you pay attention, you can figure it out or at least narrow it down. The humor as always was on point and had my husband and I giggling multiple times throughout the book. This series is one that we love to listen to when we go on vacation together as it helps the miles fly by as we drive and keeps us thoroughly entertained. The only negative is that it will often keep us on the road longer than we had planned so we have to alter our plans along the way. So worth it, every time! I absolutely love this series and it is a must listen series for me every time a new book in the series drops! This is the 59th book in the series so if you haven't started it, it will keep you entertained for days on end! If you are looking for an audiobook to entertain you then this series is the right pick, because the narrator is outstanding. The mysteries are detailed and the life stories entertaining so I look forward to many more books in this series to come!

My Thoughts This time I took a slower approach to reading and it made the book last longer while also giving me more of a chance to form opinions on who murdered the victim. I feel very strongly that even after 58 books before this one that this series still has room to grow for its current audience and new readers who have just discovered the characters. Eve Dallas has proven to be one of my very favorite female leads in any genre of fiction as she is a strong woman who hasn’t lost her ability to be vulnerable as well. For me she shows her softer side more in this story and at the same time proves that her edge has only grown sharper when it comes to investigating and solving a murder mystery. That being said what weaved this story together was how everything came down to relationships and especially the relationship between victim and killer. There are a really large amount of reasons why I keep coming back to this series but the simplest one is its main and supporting cast of recurring characters interest me and I have loved getting to know each and every one better over the many years that have been reading the In Death Series. I hope to keep reading this series for a long time. Thank you to the Publisher and Netgalley for the opportunity to read an advance copy in exchange for an honest review.

Review: 4.5 Stars Passions In Death begins with the killing of one of the brides at the D&D club and as a homicide lieutenant, Eve Dallas accompanied by her husband, Roarke is called in to the murder scene. There was also some irony thrown in as the bride was murdered in the private room that Eve was trapped in back in Book #3 - Immortal in Death which makes me all the more personal for Eve. This case is the epitome of hardcore police procedural with some psychological elements thrown in. I was able to guess who the killer is early on in the book which makes this a slower read since I wasn’t consumed to know who it was. So, there were some moments where the case wasn’t too complex but the lack of evidence forces Eve to come up with creative ways to close the case. I find it fascinating how Eve’s mind works in that regard. What I did love about this book is the wonderful relationship complexities between each character, especially Eve and her husband, Roarke. I love how Robb explores the relationship further where we see Roarke being frustrated over a work problem and Eve stepping in to deal with his moods. I also love that Eve admits that being married is a nice thing and how she ‘tripped’ into it. The fact that they still take their dinners together and Eve would still discuss her case details with Roarke where he “gets” her is just lovely. Their relationship has come a long, long way since the early days of their marriage and it’s so wonderful to see. As with their close friends, we can peek into the secret house project and Eve’s bullpen of cops. I do enjoy a funny moment where Galahad, Eve’s ‘spoiled’ cat with bicolored eyes took a whiff at Eve’s clothes during a recent trip home and refused to absolutely go near her because she had a brush by with a “rat dog” during one of her field trips out to questioned her suspects. Such a proprietary cat which I can relate to since my dog has moments like these! While readers shouldn’t have a problem with on starting this series with this book since each crime is a standalone, I would still recommend starting from Book #1 - Naked in Death since it provides the characters backstory and complexity leading to a more enchanting read.

Yay, always love coming back to this series between heavier reads. Eve Dallas and J.D. Robb never disappoint.

I always love an IN DEATH novel & this one doesn’t disappoint. Kept me guessing till the end. Number 59 in the series. They are all stand alone but the characters build in complexity over the series.

This review was originally posted on Books of My Heart I love the In Death series. I am always so happy to have a new book in this series. The characters have become beloved to me, and their circle of friends with comfortable connections. The smart way the police work the cases and try to get a vision of what happened and what makes sense is always exciting. In addition to the case, I enjoy the personal growth of the characters. There's nothing realistic about the stories but the characters' emotions. Every book in this series is a comfort read. Because I love the characters. Passions in Death is #59 and I have read every one. The combination of a police procedural with great characters and world building is a winner for me. There is a bachelorette party or "hen" party of sorts and one of the brides is murdered. It's heart breaking because the couple was SO happy. The victim was a wonderful person, an artist with talent. I watch as Eve goes through suspects, motives and takes a stand for the victim to get justice. More than many other installments, this is a study of characters and getting at the motive. It isn't as simple and the evidence is limited. Eve tries on different suspects and checks facts to see if they work, and figures it out. Along with the case, we have the wonder of Eve with her marriage. She notices how other couples interact like Mira and Dennis, Mavis and Leonardo, Crack and Rochelle, and reflects on how nice it is to be married. I would say the pace here is slower and the story is more people-oriented than action-packed. It's still a triumph when the law prevails.

Amazing Read This was an incredible read. This is the twenty-fifth book of the Women’s Murder Club series. Every book is getting better and better in my opinion. Also, I think I might have forgotten to read and write reviews for books 23 1/2 Lies and the 24th Hour. I was just to excited to jump into the new one that I forgot…lol. I really love Lindsay Boxer. She has become one of my favourite heroines. In this book, Lindsay is dumbfounded when called onto the murder scene of her mentor and close friend, Warren Jacobi. She vows to find the culprit at all costs. Meanwhile, Yuki is the prosecutor of a case that involves the cartel. There was crime, mystery, and some badass moments. I loved the fast pace of the story, and also the twists that unfold in the series are awesome. The ending was fantastic, and I didn't expect it at all. This series reminds me of Criminal Minds, but an all-female version of it. The series about four best friends, who are more like sisters than friends is the best thing ever. We get to see how they are able to overcome anything because of their friendship. The only thing I am sad about is that Yuki never got to meet Jill. I think if all 5 women were in the series, it would have been even better. I am happy that I am now caught up with the series. This series is one of my favourite crime series, and I cannot wait to continue the story. Since I forgot to read it, I can't wait to read book 23.5, and I am excited to see what the series has in store for me. 23 1/2 Lies, here I come. Overall, an amazing read.

Lindsay Boxer and her friends in the Women’s Murder Club face their toughest challenges yet in this new book. Lindsay’s mentor and good friend is murdered and she is tasked to find the serial killer who is leaving a unique calling card behind. Yuki is the prosecuting lawyer against a cartel leader’s son and her life is endangered because of her work on this case. Cindy, the intrepid reporter, strikes out on her own to discover who the serial killer might be and is putting herself in his crosshairs. Meanwhile, Claire is doing the autopsy of a good friend and seeking solace from the WMC. The characters are the same beloved ones as in the rest of the series, but the obstacles they face are more difficult and their stake in overcoming them is higher and personal. I really enjoyed how the story flowed well between the different characters and what they contributed to the overall story. This is a web of stories that all come together in the end in a spectacular way. The complexity of the plot and the subsequent tying everything together in a suspenseful way kept me highly engaged in this fast-paced and skillfully plotted book. Fans of the series will not want to miss this one and new readers can definitely enjoy this book as a standalone. Disclaimer: I voluntarily received a complimentary copy of this book from the publisher via Netgalley. I was not required to write a positive review, and all opinions expressed are my own.

I have read this series from book one and love it. This was another great book with every one in it. Keep it up.

I love reading about the girls in the Women’s Murder Club. Like all the other books I could hardly put it down. And if this was a movie everyone would be sitting on the edge of their seats!

Fun read! I love the short chapters which always led into the next.

** spoiler alert ** I was mind blown they killed off officer Jacobi in this book and right at the beginning to boot. this book was so worth the year wait but now I dont wanna wait til may 2026 for book 26.

Even with that adrenaline rush of a prologue, I still would say this is a comfort read for those who are long-term lovers of the series. While there are some hold your breath moments and conflict, it has everything you want in the Women’s Murder Club series. You have the family moments that make you feel like you’re sitting around the table. You have lovable moments with Martha, as well as margaritas and drinks around the infamous table. There are times when you don’t know if everyone’s going to make it to the end, but I can only say it’s satisfying. It’s everything you want: it’s adrenaline-pumping, it’s heartwarming, it’s intense, and it’s layered with multiple storylines happening. If you love this series, you will enjoy this book. If you're new, go back and read a couple of the previous books so that you don’t feel lost if you are jumping into the series.

Finished in just under 6 hours, A main character in this series has been brutally murdered. Was it planned or spur of the moment? Is this part of a serial killers spree or a copycat of another psychopath? I liked the way all of the main characters were tied together in this story. One minor character that provided a break in the case just seemed to disappear.

This book was awesome and amazing! Had me on the edge of my seat till the very end

I devoured this new installment. Excellent story either way great twists and turns

I loved it. I have read all the Women's Murder Club series of books.

Like Michael Connelly, David Baldacci rarely disappoints. He has a flair for writing his women characters, and I loved the pairing of these two. I can’t wait to see how he progresses the series. I stayed up all night to finish the book!

David Baldacci is one of my favorite authors and Simply Lies is a fantastic read! There are so many twists and turns that you'll have to pay attention to each little detail as they could be clues to help you unravel the mystery. Mickey Gibson is a former police detective, but now is a single mom with 2 young children. She works from home for ProEye a global investigation firm. She misses detective work, but knows that this is best for her children right now. Luckily, Mickey's parents live closely and can be called to babysit if needed. Mickey has a regular babysitter come in daily so that she can work in her home office for ProEye. After Mickey had just found 5 million dollars for ProEye, her boss was very pleased and gave her a bonus with some time off if she wanted it. Mickey wouldn't know what to do with time off, so she said she'd keep working. A little while after she got off the phone with her boss, her phone rang and it was Arlene Robinson. Mickey had never worked with Arlene, but she told Mickey that she worked for ProEye and that her boss said it was okay for her to call. She knew all about Mickey's latest case and the success that she had. Arlene wants Mickey to go to a home that was owned by an arms dealer who cheated ProEye's clients. She wants her to inventory everything in the home to see if any of it could be valuable for her clients. It's a bit of a drive for Mickey, so she has to ask her parents to babysit. When Mickey arrives at the mansion, she doesn't find anybody home, unless you include the dead body she comes across in a secret room. Mickey calls the police and finds out that the murder victim is Harry Lancaster. Lancaster worked for the mob and was put in witness protection for his cooperation. When Mickey tries to contact Arlene Robinson to let her know about the victim, she finds out that no one named Arlene Robinson works for ProEye!! No one at ProEye called Mickey after her boss. So who was Arlene Robinson and what did she want with a single mother working from home? Mickey is under suspicion for the murder of Lancaster as she is the one who found the body. Wilson Sullivan is the lead detective on the case and he comes to trust Mickey as they begin to share some information. A burner phone is left on Mickey's doorstep and she's told to keep it near at all times. She's told about this from the woman claiming to be Arlene. The woman is now threatening Mickey and everything she holds dear unless she does what she is asked. What does this woman want with Mickey? Is Mickey in danger? Did Mickey put her children in danger now that she knows this woman knows where she lives? She's been warned not to talk to the police about her phone "friend" but she is supposed to talk to them to get information. The more you read the book, the more you want to know, and the more you keep reading! You can't put Simply Lies down for long because it draws you back in. I loved the characters in the book and I'm hoping this is just the first book in a new series. I give Simply Lies 5 stars with my highest recommendation! Simply Lies is out on April 18 and you should definitely look for it! I'd like to thank NetGalley and Grand Central Publishing for an advanced copy of Simply Lies in exchange for a fair review! #SimplyLies

A former detective and a con artist face off against each other in David Baldacci'sd latest book, a psychological thriller from the author of The 6:20 Man. The book starts simply enough, pardon the pun, with single mother and former detective, Mickey Gibson working for ProEye, a private investigation company and tasked with visiting the house of a man they have been tracking for years. But soon she realizes that the woman who sent her on the quest is not what she seems, and is also not an employee of ProEye. And so begins a complex thriller full of twits and turns. I did feel the first third of a the book was a little slow, biut it gained momentum the further in I got, and had enough twists and turns to keep me interested. The characters, especially Mickey, are well crafted, and the plot is tight. All in all, a good standalone from Mr. Baldacci, and I'm looking forward to his next one. Five stars.

Simply Lies is a new stand-alone thriller from David Baldacci. "Mickey Gibson is a single mom and former detective. She spends her day with the demands of two small children and working for ProEye - a company that tracks down the hidden assets of criminals and tax cheats. She gets a call from a colleague to inventory of the house of an arm's dealer for possible assets to recover. At the house she finds a body and finds herself the suspect of a murder investigation. The body happens to be a former mob accountant. Now Mickey must use all of her skill to clear her name and protect her family." This is a new set of characters from DB and I think this is one of his most ambitious stories. There are a lot of moving parts and characters and storylines. It's more complicated that previous Baldacci stories and is a little confusing at the beginning. But once you get into it you see where the stories seem to be coming together and it becomes a more enjoyable read. Mickey is a different kind of character for Baldacci. Most of her skill is behind a computer and she drives a mommy van. Not your typical thriller hero. But she's a character you pull for. The other MC, who goes by many names, is one you're unsure of and DB keeps you guessing about her until the end. Baldacci keeps current by including crypto and NFTs and continues to find new ways to surprise us. This is Baldacci's 48th novel (not including his 4 YA fantasy books) I like that he tries out new characters and each book is different. There is no formula here - just great writing and great stories. Add this to your summer list! Thanks to Grand Central Pub for the advanced copy

Always excited to pick up a new Baldacci as he's my favourite author and has yet to disappoint. As usual, an exciting action packed thriller, and some great new characters in his latest instalment. with two strong female lead characters in Mickey and Clarisse, I can easily see this becoming a lot more than just a stand alone book, but whatever Baldacci writes, as I've read almost all of his books. Lots of twists and turns and very interesting throughout. A big thank you to Grand Central Publishing for the opportunity to read and review this book for an honest opinion.

David Baldacci's "Simply Lies" is an absolute masterpiece that deserves nothing less than a five-star rating. This riveting thriller is a testament to Baldacci's storytelling prowess and will leave readers utterly captivated from start to finish.

Suspense, action, murder, mayhem and the drama of dealing with children and solving crimes. Overall a good listen. Good characters and twists and shouts.

I read this entire book in less than a day. Very engaging & thrilling. Only bummer is that it gave me nightmares and I couldn’t sleep 😭 but that’s show biz

This is one of the best David Baldacci suspense stories in quite some time, and they are all good. Former Police Officer and an alleged colleague and current mystery woman become completely entwined in a brilliant story comprised of lies and deception that kept me glued to the book until the end. There is not point to trying to figure out where you are going here, but it will be worth it, guaranteed. I recommend this book to fans of David Baldacci, Harlan Coben, etc My thanks to Grand Central Publishing and Net Galley for a downloaded copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.

“Fairy Tale” by Stephen King was such a delight to read, it’s something you just need to sit back, relax, and enjoy slowly in stride. I loved how as always with King, he brings you back to a time when you were a kid and had to deal with all the usual things kids dealt with. Relationships, sports, family, friends, doing stupid things, and just trying to make sense of it all. I absolutely loved all the characters King created in this novel. Charlie, Mr. Bowditch, Leah, and even the fantasy characters were all fantastic. Now, for me personally, when it comes to Radar, I became a dog owner for the first time in my life back in 2021 as she really connected with me. I have a cockapoo by the name of Ozzy Skywalker and reading about Radar really hit home for me in so many ways. All the interactions, situations, events, and descriptions were exactly that of a dog and how a dog owner would react. I can imagine if you’re also a dog owner, you will feel the same way as you connect immediately with the dynamic duo of Charlie and Radar and the adventures that await them. Don’t worry, I will not ruin anything for you but this novel is simply amazing. The way King blurred reality into fantasy completely blew me away. Even all the scary and horror situations were perfect that led to an awesome fairy tale story that was unique and just so good. The atmosphere, world-building, character development, and the pure creepiness of everything King built just really resonated well with me. Once I got to the 80% mark, it was incredibly hard to put this down to see what would ultimately transpire. Also, the illustrations for each chapter brought me back to my childhood as I remembered reading a lot of horror and mystery novels that did this. I have no idea who created these graphics for King in every chapter but they were great and captured the essence of each one. As I read, I’d often head back to see the image just to give me that visual as it happened. Just really well done! When it comes to the ending, it really delivered after such a climactic buildup. I had no idea what would transpire but when it did, my goodness, it was wonderful and wrapped up an unforgettable novel. It was simply a perfect way to end things that left me beyond satisfied. I give “Fairy Tale” a perfect 5/5 and so far in 2022 at the time of this review, is the best novel I’ve read. King published this novel in September which is his birthday month. Considering he just turned 75 years young and wrote yet another impactful novel, truly made this year a great one for Constant Readers all across the globe. I highly recommend this novel to anyone that loves King, fantasy, horror, and wants to see what happens when both worlds ultimately collide.

5/5 ⭐ “You never know where the trapdoors are in your life, do you?” I bet you guessed it already from the rating above but I loved this book! Definitely a new favourite of mine from Mr King. The thing is as follows: this book is so unlike his usual style, but at the same time he keeps his usual pace and his usual storytelling manner, which might give you chills down your spine from time to time. I said it's unlike his usual style because we all know his speciality is horror, he gave us some of the most iconic horror characters and stories ever. However, this book, Fairy Tale , is constructed to be a fantastic journey in the sacred pace of a traditional fairy tale. The plot is built as such: the pace is slow, the hero goes through various trials and challenges that turn him from an ordinary boy in a small town to a brave and wise prince in a foreign world. It is a long book, yes. I know. And at some point it drags a little bit (in the middle, obviously), but the way the plot has been built little by little, step by step, with traditional fairy tale elements, with trials, with ordinary heroes, with helpers and magical objects and magical creatures and magical worlds? Brilliant, I'm giving a 10/10 for that. The dark premise that still makes you see it as King's doing is that he took elements from the original fairy tales that some of us grew up with, letting the sickeningly honey-glazed sugarplumed Disney version slide away to eat dust behind. What King used in his story were the real fairy tales, the ones the Grimm brothers and Hans Christian Andersen wrote, the ones with cruel and brute elements. Not the Little Mermaid who lost her pretty voice to Ursula but managed to fall in love with the Prince, the Prince also fell in love with her and they lived happily ever after. No. The Little Mermaid who couldn't speak because she sold her voice in exchange for legs she couldn't even step with without feeling like a million knives were piercing through her flesh. And, in the end, she fell in love with the Prince, but the Prince married another woman so the Little Mermaid died. Not because of jealousy and heartbreak though, but because she did not fulfil her side of the pact with Ursula, whom she sold her voice to. That's the kind of fairy tale King was creating for his own book and he succeeded. You can clearly see that he believes in the twisty ones rather than the Disney sugary ones. “It’s the stories of our childhood that make the deepest impressions and last the longest.” I love this book for a few more reasons, other than the great way it has been created. I loved it because it had a dog (and how could you not be obsessed with a story involving a dog) and also because Charlie was, actually, a quite relatable character. He didn't try too hard to get the spotlight, he was naturally good at things and naturally kind and sweet even though he didn't have the easiest of life, and one thing I absolutely adored about him is that even though his dad forced him to grow up faster than he should've (and made life hard for the both of them), Charlie still loved him dearly and they had a beautiful bond and a beautiful father-son relationship. There's a lot to dissect about this book but at the same time, there is not much happening. However, there are details that make it nearly impossible to reproduce in a few sentences. Two things are certain though: 1) you have to read it because 2) there's Radar and she's the sweetest and bravest dog and you'll fall in love with her!

I’d heard of curses—the storybooks are full of them—but this was the first time I’d seen one in action. -------------------------------------- You never know where the trapdoors are in your life, do you? Once Upon a Time, Stephen King decided to write a fairy tale. So, bring in some Brothers Grimm, Disney, Mother Goose, add in some H.P. Lovecraft, for good measure, and plenty more, stir for a good long while in the cauldron that is SKs brain, and “Poof!” There it appears. Being Stephen King, the book is over 600 pages, so not exactly Mother Goose length. I love all the stuff that Robert E. Howard, Conan the Barbarian and some of the characters in the Edgar Rice Burroughs books, who would find these strange deserted cities, monsters and things. I thought it’s kinda like fairy tales. And I started to kinda get interested in that, and I thought maybe I could combine those two things, Maybe I could take the whole fairy tale riff. - from the Losers Club interview Charlie Reade is a pretty good kid. But he hit into a bit of bad luck. He was seven when Mom made the mistake of walking across a local bridge on an icy night. Soon after, dad started drinking in earnest, managed to survive in his job for three years, but was ultimately let go. After months of ever worse drinking by his dad, Charlie did something that was alien to him. Stephen King - image from The Financial Times He prayed to God to help his dad. Help arrives when Charlie is ten in the form of a former workmate introducing pop to AA. Feeling that he must hold up his end of the deal, Charlie is ever on the lookout for the task that he thinks God wants him to take care of. Years later the day arrives, and Charlie, seventeen now, steps up, saving the life of a local crank who had had a bad accident. Mr. Bowditch had more than just a foul temper and a creepy old house. He had an old German Shepherd, Radar, who loved him dearly. Charlie takes on the task of caretaking Radar and Mr. Bowditch, and fast friendships develop. Bowditch had another thing of some significance, a shed covering the entrance to a hidden world. Mr. Bowditch’s house is referred to as “The Psycho House” by the locals - from the book There comes a time (about 35% of the way in) when it is necessary for Charlie to brave that journey and the story takes off, as Charlie and Radar head down and out of this world. There is a sundial down there that can reverse-age the now-beloved dog. Charlie is determined to save her. …these books, particularly the Edgar Rice Burroughs books, like John Carter of Mars…they’re supposed to have this hero who’s like, muscular, you know, he played football in college and at the same time he’s got a brain, he’s handsome and got a cleft chin and all that good stuff and I thought I’d like to write a character like that. I’d like to write a character, who’s big, tough, tall, strong, who’s smart, but I want to give him a dose of reality. If he’s a kid, a younger man, who as a younger kid put dogshit on a bad teacher’s windshield, and glued somebody’s ignition shut. In other words I wanted him to have an anti-Disney kind of thing in there. - from the Losers Club interview King succeeds in giving Charlie some dark sides, but he also gives him a large dose of shame to balance it out. Fairy Tale follows the familiar Campbellian structure of the Hero’s Journey monomyth, in which a “hero” goes on an adventure, leaving our pedestrian plane to take on challenges in a supernatural world, usually one below ours, engages in victorious battle, and returns home wiser and more powerful than when he or she left, with a newly enhanced ability to help others. Once down below, in a world called Empis, Charlie encounters many characters who would be quite comfortable in traditional western fairy tales. It is a magical place, as one might expect. There are multiple dealings with Rumpelstiltskin-type characters, (names figure very large here) royalty disguised as commoners, sentient non-human life, (including a cricket who might remind one of another boy on a journey) and a general bleakness darkening the land. I was reminded of C.S. Lewis’s Narnia series opener, in which that troubled land was described as being “Always winter but never Christmas.” More immediate correlations might be to King’s own The Talisman, The Dark Tower, and From a Buick 8, Rose Madder, and Lisey’s Story, which all feature cross-world portals. Charlie must face and overcome perils in this new (to him) world, in order to achieve his goal of saving Radar. But, Charlie is somehow seen by the locals as some sort of a savior, a prince. (which again reminded me of Peter in Narnia) Charlie finds this odd (who, me?) but also feels a need to help out, so does what he can. Adventure ensues, as does a relentless, and very fun series of references to fairy tales of diverse sorts. King finds his fairy tales in various places. TCM flicks are among them, Niietzsche, Dickens, Kipling, Mark Twain and Thackery, Ray Bradbury, Jung, Lovecraft, Game of Thrones, Piers Anthony, and others. I tried to put in every goddam fairy tale I could think, including Ariel, the mermaid from the Disney film. - from the Losers Club interview The Wizard of Oz is a particular favorite, as there are multiple references, including an emerald city, fields of poppies, and a bit on the importance of shoes. Radar and Charlie - from the book The overall structure of the novel is a frame. Chapter one is Charlie telling us that he is going to tell us a tale--so we know that he will survive--and ends with Charlie letting us know that he is a twenty-something teacher of a seminar on Myth and Fairy Tales. Each chapter is introduced by a drawing of an element to come. These are delightful, adding to the fairy-tale feel of the novel. Gripes - Charlie keeps reminding us that he is speaking and hearing in a language other than English, a language that he seems to be absorbing by osmosis. Once the initial leap of faith had been requested, and presumably performed, these repetitions only served to remind us over and over again of that leap. Once would have been sufficient. And at 608 pages, it was definitely a bit long. I did not keep track of all the fairy tale, or other literary or filmic references sprinkled across the book, but they are legion, and spotting them offers its own form of satisfaction. Those who have read more of King’s work than I, which will be many of you, will pick up references to other King work that I missed (The Cujo reference is not missable). A weapon used here features large in a King series There are some passing contemplations in the tale that rise above the simple experience of the plot. In one, Charlie wonders whether it is Empis that is the magical place or the world he was born into, offering some intriguing examples of why one might think that. There are more. There are familiar Kingian elements. A young man, or boy, forms a friendship with an older man. The man has significant secrets, but teaches his mentee what he can. There is a missing parent, a young person taking on adult responsibilities, issues with alcoholism, other worlds that exist in parallel to ours, coming to terms with our darker side, and more. One primary Kingian element that is particularly appropriate here is that this is a love story. Boy meets dog, and it is love that conquers all. It is also a love letter to story, the stories King read as a kid, the stories he has continued to inhale as an adult, whether of the fairy tale, horror, science fiction or adventure sort, whether taken in from the pages of a book or from screens, large and small. We as individuals are the stories we tell about ourselves. Our culture is defined by the stories we tell and repeat about our values and history. Story is as important to us as breathing and eating. Many of the fairy tales that King incorporates here are not, like the ones we grew up on, intended for bedtime reading to children. Mother Goose might not feel entirely comfortable with the darker pieces that King has imported into his magical kingdom (not exactly the happiest place on Earth), particularly the Lovecraftian ones, but I bet the Brothers Grimm (before Disney got its paws on their tales) would be all good with it. Whether your fairy tales begin with “Once upon a time or “A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away…” we have always been taken with stories that transport us to other realms, whether those places are characterized by magic, darkness, bizarre landscapes, alien beings, advanced technology, or some other form of other-ness. I can’t say that once you read this you will live happily ever after but it may show you some roads you can travel to find your way there on your own, or even with a friend or two. Consider yourself transported. As a kid, I liked all the stories by Robert E. Howard, and I liked Edgar Rice Burroughs. One of the greatest things is The Land That Time Forgot. The story starts with a narrator who finds a manuscript on the beach. The narrator says, to you, the reader, read five pages and I will be forgotten. To me, that’s what fiction’s all about. Particularly fiction where a lot of stuff happens and where you’re kind of on an adventure, and you say to yourself, What I would like to do is for my readers to forget all their problems for a while, and just relax and get totally immersed in the story and get carried away to a different world. - from the Losers Club interview The novel has been optioned by Paul Greengrass to make a feature film, but it certainly seems better suited to a mini-series. I guess we will see. Review posted - 05/12/23 Publication date – 9/06/22 This review will be cross-posted on my site, Coot’s Reviews, soon. Stop by and say Hi! =============================EXTRA STUFF SK's personal and FB pages reviews of some other books by this King -----2020 - If It Bleeds -----2019 - The Institute -----2014 - Revival -----2014 - Mr. Mercedes -----2013 - Doctor Sleep -----2009 - Under the Dome -----2008 - Duma Key -----2006 - Lisey's Story -----1977 - The Shining Other King Family (Joe Hill) books I have reviewed: -----2019 - Full Throttle -----2017 - Strange Weather -----2016 - The Fireman -----2013 - NOS4A2 -----2007 - Heart-Shaped Box -----2005 - 20th Century Ghosts Interview -----The Losers Club - A Stephen King Podcast From 7:00 – 10:45 Songs/Music -----Keen’V - Rien Qu’une Fois Item of Interest from the author -----Stephen reads an excerpt from Chapter 15 Items of Interest -----Esquire - In Fantasy, Stephen king Gets Personal by Jonathan Russell Clark –Lark offers a fascinating take on some common threads in nis fantasies -----Booktrib - A Fairy Tale Worthy of a King - by McKenzie Tozan he finds himself questioning which world is real, and which world is the fairy tale. -----Wikipedia - Hero’s journey -----Tor - Breaking Down the Fairy Tale Elements in Stephen King’s Fairy Tale by Rachel Ayers Ayers goes through the mushy borders between fairy tale, folklore and mythology.

I can only tell that to me this book is just one more star to add to Stephen King's writing history. What's different? The fact there's magic involved and some legendary/mystical creatures, which make the story a Fairy Tale and this time the story is told by the main character in the story (Charlie Reade) who will do anything and everything to save Radar (his recently inherited female German shepherd left behind by late Mr. Bowditch), but drawn also by the curiosity it represents to step foot into a hidden world. Will Charlie succeed in carrying out what he intends? Being a Fairy Tale, what else will he find throughout his journey that may make his task difficult if not virtually impossible? What other characters will Charlie bump into who might make his journey easier or perhaps even more difficult than he thinks? Being a Stephen King novel, are we expecting a happy ending or...? As usual, there's just one way to find out.

This book starts like many of King’s works, everyday people struggling with life’s challenges; financial problems, alcoholism, and loss of a parent. And again, like many of his novels, it flips over into fantasy and horror. At its heart, it’s a classic ‘heroes quest’ fable. It also borrows a bit from “Shrek” by using a sort of meta-fantasy worldbuilding. In other words, borrowing plot elements and characters from a long list of fantasy tropes. It leans heavily on Rumpelstiltskin and Jack and Beanstalk, but also at least references Goldilocks, Little Red Riding Hood, and several other classic fairy tales. There’s also a hint of connection to “The Wizard of Oz” and “Something Wicked This Way Comes,” suggesting that Authors’ Braum and Bradbury may have stumbled on at least a glimpse of this alternate reality. In addition, when things get dark, there is a strong association with H.P. Lovecraft and “The Call of Cthulhu.” And as King is so fond of doing, there are also references to his own works, such as “Cujo” and “The Dark Tower.” The book relies on King’s greatest strengths – character & relationship development and making fantastical elements feel real. I connected with the main character – Charlie and his relationships to his father, a strange old neighbor, and most fondly a dog named Radar. King is also adept at making his character’s reactions to fantasy elements feel authentic, a difficult trick! As with any book, I think you can find imperfections if you look hard enough. The main character’s flaws felt forced, and it seemed like King worked a little too hard to remind the reader that our hero wasn’t perfect. You might also argue that the worldbuilding is a little too derivative from classic fairy tales, but I enjoyed it the same way I enjoyed “Shrek.” King leans into this and made the connections overt and often amusing. As always, I also like the openness that King displays. My imagination sees King, tossing a stuffed monkey toy to his own beloved dog ‘Molly’ and mourning her declining health. He thinks about what he would do to magically turn back the years for her – what grueling journeys he would take, what giants he would fight, and what monsters he would face – just to give her another six to eight years. I also believe his politics shows through. He worries about political oppression and fears a leader that spreads hate and chaos for the sake of it. In this world, this oppression and hate spreads as a literal sickness, resulting in downtrodden people that are slowly becoming deformed and their skin turning grey. Ultimately, I enjoyed the tale, which admittedly takes elements from many of King’s past works and classic fairy tales, but results in an imaginative story that I was able to lose myself into, and that ability to fall into a tale, is one of my biggest gauges of a great book. A meta-fantasy fable told in traditional King fashion, that riffs on not only classic Aesops, but also on King’s own work. Five stars for richly developed character relationships and creative storytelling.

First of all, thank you to @simonandschuster and Stephen King for the opportunity to read this eGalley of the upcoming book “Fairy Tale”, releasing September 6, 2022. “Fairy Tale” is the story of Charlie Reade, a teenager who has dealt with a lot in his life: the death of his mother and the struggles of living with an alcoholic father. He crosses paths with a reclusive neighbor, Mr. Bowditch and his dog named Radar, who I will never ever forget. But Bowditch has a few secrets, and one that is revealed after Bowditch’s death will change Charlie’s world forever. King has described this book as the one he wrote to make him happy during the early days of the pandemic. And I am happy to report this book will make you happy too. “Fairy Tale” delivers in a way I never expected. The world building is masterfully done, and the characters will stay with me forever. First of all, Radar, the beloved dog of Mr. Bowditch and eventually Charlie, immediately found his way into my heart and revealed his love and loyalty throughout the story. Charlie is a young man, wise and mature beyond his years, who becomes a hero in ways he never knew were possible. Intermingled with the great fairy tales of our childhoods, “Fairy Tale” is a must read book this fall, and is another example of the absolute brilliance of the modern master himself, Stephen King.

This is a masterful dive into a world of dark fantasy and wonder, a departure from his usual horror fare, yet with all the mesmerizing storytelling that makes his work so compelling. The novel follows Charlie Reade, an ordinary boy thrust into an extraordinary world after discovering a hidden portal. The story starts slowly, with King expertly building the characters and the setting, creating a sense of quiet mystery before plunging the reader into a fantastical journey filled with strange creatures, dangerous kingdoms, and magic both wondrous and terrifying. What I loved most about Fairy Tale is the blend of classic fairy tale elements with King's signature darker touch. It's not your typical whimsical fantasy—there's an underlying current of dread, a sense that danger lurks around every corner, keeping the tension alive throughout. King's imagination runs wild here, and the world-building is rich and immersive. The layers of Charlie's character are carefully peeled back as the plot thickens, showing us a young man grappling with his own inner demons while navigating a strange and perilous world. At its core, this novel explores themes of bravery, sacrifice, and the thin line between good and evil, with King pulling readers into a coming-of-age story wrapped in a fantastical adventure. While the pacing can slow down at times, it allows for a deeper connection to the characters and a richer immersion into the world King has crafted. The climactic moments are truly gripping, and as always, King's ability to create emotional depth amid the fantastical shines through. Fairy Tale is both a nostalgic nod to the stories that have captivated our imaginations for generations and a fresh, thrilling take on the genre. Fans of Stephen King’s storytelling prowess will not be disappointed, and those looking for a blend of fantasy with a touch of darkness will find this novel hard to put down. blog instagram facebook twitter

I am not usually drawn to books written by Stephen King but there was something that was very intriguing for me about Fairy Tale that made me want to read it. After I started to notice that so many of the people I am friends with on goodreads had given Fairy Tale such high praise, I decided to give it a try. I decided that if I determined that it was not for me I had at least given it a try. Within just a few minutes I was completely immersed into the plot of Fairy Tale. Stephen King created engaging and likable characters for the most part. I listened to the audiobook that was brilliantly narrated by Seth Numrich and Stephen King, himself. Since I had Fairy Tale downloaded on my kindle, I also read certain parts as well. It was fast paced, so creative and well plotted. I was glad that I decided to read/listen to this book since in my opinion it was a creative gem. Fairy Tale was told in the first person by twenty-four year old Charlie Reade as he looked back on his life the year he had turned seventeen. Charlie had been an only child. He lived in Sentry, Illinois with his mother and father. One afternoon when Charlie had been seven years old, his mother had decided to walk to town to buy a bucket of chicken for dinner. His mother left Charlie and his father watching a baseball game on the television. After buying the bucket of chicken, Charlie’s mother started to walk home. She was eating an extra piece of the chicken while she walked. As she started to cross “that G D bridge” on her way home, a truck came out of nowhere, hit her and she died instantly. Charlie and his father were devastated as they learned about her death. The only way that Charlie’s father was able to cope with his wife’s death was by drowning his sorrows with alcohol. Before too long, Charlie’s father was a certifiable alcoholic. Charlie was forced to grow up very fast. He became the caregiver for his father. When Charlie’s father’s drinking problems became so severe, he was fired from his job. Charlie envisioned that he and his father could potentially become homeless or worse. It was then that Charlie started to pray that his father would stop drinking. Charlie made a promise to G-d that day. If G-d would make his father stop drinking, Charlie would pay it forward and help someone else in need. Just in the nick of time, Charlie’s father’s friend stepped in. His father’s friend became his sponsor in Alcoholic’s Anonymous. Taking one baby step at a time, Charlie’s father found his way to sobriety. There was a house at the top of the hill on the street that Charlie lived that was known by the neighborhood children as the “psycho house “. One day, Charlie was walking home and as he was passing that house he heard a dog barking frantically. The man who lived there was quite reclusive. No one knew a lot about him and he seldom left his home. One of Charlie’s friends had warned him that he had seen the dog that lived there several years ago and that it was quite vicious. Charlie pondered about what to do. He thought that something was wrong. Charlie decided to climb over the fence to see. When Charlie got to the backyard, he saw that the old man that lived there had fallen off a ladder and was hurt very badly. Charlie called 911 and got an ambulance to come and help the man. The man’s name was Mr. Bowditch. It was just Mr. Bowditch and his dog, Radar that lived in the house. Mr Bowditch did not have a wife, children or any living relatives. Before the ambulance took Mr. Bowditch to the hospital, Charlie offered to take care of Radar and feed him for Mr. Bowditch. That was the beginning of Charlie making good on the promise he made with G-d. Over the course of Mr. Bowditch’s recovery, Charlie became his caregiver and the two formed the most unlikely but beautiful friendship that anyone could have imagined. Mr. Bowditch was not your typical neighbor as you might have already surmised. He hoarded lots of things in his house and he was opposed to modern day conveniences and technology. His t.v. was probably as old as he was. It had rabbit ears and an antenna on the roof. He was not in the possession of a cell phone or a computer and he had no desire to own one either. One thing was apparent, though. Mr. Bowditch loved Radar with all his heart and the same could be said for Radar’s feelings towards Mr. Bowditch. When Mr. Bowditch came home from the hospital, he began to confide in Charlie about some things. Mr. Bowditch had to pay the hospital for his stay and the surgeries he had. Charlie learned about the gold that Mr. Bowditch was in possession of and that strange noises that could be heard coming from the padlocked shed on Mr. Bowditch’s property. Mr. Bowditch revealed information to Charlie on a need to know basis. One day, while Charlie was at school, he got a call from Mr. Bowditch. Charlie could tell that something was wrong. Mr. Bowditch was having a heart attack. He needed Charlie to know some very important things. Probably the most important thing Mr. Bowditch revealed to Charlie had to do with the shed on his property. Mr. Bowditch told Charlie that within the shed was a well that led to the “other world” where the sundial existed. Years ago, Mr. Bowditch had gone on the sundial to make himself younger. Mr. Bowditch had shared this information with Charlie already. As Charlie continued listening to the all that Mr. Bowditch had to tell him, tears welled up in his eyes. Charlie knew that Mr. Bowditch was dying. By the time that the ambulance got to Mr. Bowditch’s house, he was already dead. Charlie took Radar to his own house. Radar became his dog on that day. Unfortunately, Radar was also quite old and didn’t have long to live. That was when a plan started to formulate in Charlie’s mind. He could not loose Radar too. Charlie would do whatever he had to do to find the sundial and make Radar young again. The next part of Fairy Tale took place in the “other world” known as Empis. The fairy tale characters were very creative yet believable. Charlie’s adventurous journey was full of discovery, magic, dangers, good, evil and monsters. Some of the scenes were gruesome and unpleasant but for the most part they were well plotted and even uplifting. The ending was quite satisfying and it tied everything up quite nicely. I found myself thinking about the characters long after the book ended. Charlie was my favorite character by far. I am so glad that I took a chance and read Fairy Tale by Stephen King. I highly recommend it.

First, I want to thank Edelweiss and Simon and Schuster for this eGalley in exchange for an honest review! I got to read Fairy Tale a while back and found myself not being able to put it down, which, honestly, we all know goes without saying. It’s nice to *finally* talk freely about the excellent and meh elements (to which there are few, but whatever). 📖My favorite part of this book was the relationships. The relationship between Charlie and Howard is believable because cranky old men who refuse help and 17-year-old boys who are eager to help go hand in hand. However, the best relationship will naturally be between Charlie and Radar. Any quest worth taking requires a dog (or talking cat? just any animal here, honestly) to be a proper quest, right? I couldn’t think of a better companion to save the worlds than Radar ❤️ 📚It's acknowledged that saying the world-building and fantasy of any King work is a given, but I’m a huge fan of repeating things, especially if it’s going to make some neck beard super sad on the internet. 😂. The Dark Tower is present throughout most of King’s books, but it’s worth noting that its presence is strong in Fairy Tale. 📚Now for the one thing that was kind of meh was the 5,000,000 times breasts were mentioned. The main character is 17, so it makes sense, but it did pull me out of the story now and again. I can’t honestly remember disliking much of anything aside from that, though. So this was a 5-star read for me. Getting an eGalley of this book was like Christmas in April, so I’m beyond thankful for the opportunity to read/review so many fantastic titles.

I absolutely loved this book. In my opinion, this is the best Stephen King book in recent memory and it is easily my favorite read of the year, so far. Stephen King is known for horror, but I think some of his best works fall into other genres. Fantasy isn't necessarily my favorite genre, but If the author has "king" in their name, I'm going to read it (T. Kingfisher's Nettle & Bone is probably my second favorite read of the year). You'd expect a Stephen King fairy tale to be a close cousin to the Brothers Grimm, but it was surprisingly wholesome. It's no Disney tale, this is still Stephen King after all, but it was more hope and less horror. It was a fun hero's journey tale that I'm sure I'll re-read in the future. It's a new story, with hints of the fairy tales we're already familiar with. There are two things that King has been doing lately that I'm not a fan of. The first, is talking about Donald Trump way too much. The second, is self-referencing his other works, as works of fiction. He does both in this book, but restrains himself to just one of each. For King, this was a fairly short book at a little over 600 pages. In this case, I wouldn't have minded a few hundred more pages of story. The story was complete, I just wanted a lot more of it. I don't really think King left the door open for a direct sequel, but there's still a possibility for one.

I recently reread Fairy Tale, and I realized I never initially loaded a rating or review for this novel. It was extremely well received and has been reviewed and discussed so often, so I'll just quickly comment on it as a fan of his work. Far more a fantasy than a horror (though there are plenty of tense, frightening moments), Fairy Tale is one of my favorite books by Mr. King. There are multiple beautiful relationships between characters--between a boy and a dog, a boy and an elderly mentor, a boy and his father. If you appreciate character driven narratives that offer insights into the human condition, there's so much to love here. There are also hundreds of poignant lines that I felt the need to write down in my own journal just so I could continue to appreciate them later--I personally found this novel to be some of Mr. King's most exquisite writing. And of course characteristic of much of Mr. King's work, there is also a supernaturally bizarre element which forms the intrigue and mystery in the first half of the book, so I don't want to talk about it directly as finding out just what is going on is part of the thrill of it all. At it's core though, this is a coming of age story and an end of life story. It's a novel about the human condition--transitions, the relationships (non-romantic) we foster that help inform those transitions, and our acceptance of transitions. Time itself only becomes the antagonist when the characters try to deny its progression, but of course that too is a part of human nature. I know lots of readers who don't usually read fantasy or horror novels will miss out on this novel simply because of the association, but I wish everyone who has ever craved remarkable prose (in this case a stunning literary coming of age portrait of a compassionate young American teen who is just trying to be a decent guy and finding out what that--being decent--actually means in today's world) would give this book a chance. Yes, there's a element of the fantastical that serves as the plot vehicle during the second part of the book. But Fairy Tale is so much more than it's genre, and I have recommended it to readers who favor realism just as often. And even though the main character is a teenaged boy and the secondary characters are largely men, I also personally felt just as connected with the humanity of the story. So I recommend it just as often to women. There's something here for everyone--it's such a positive, life affirming novel, and though I have used the word beautiful far too often in this review, it's really the best fit. It is a beautiful fairytale.

This was a ride. I loved the journey with Charlie and Radar. Once I started, my first impression was how well Stephen King writes American casual vernacular speech. The inner monologue and the conversations are very effective at conveying place and character while appearing effortless and understated. He starts with windowpane prose. Later, as the fantasy story develops, he adds some carefully placed formal and sometimes archaic vocabulary to great effect. It's always done precisely and to benefit the progress of the story. The initial build up is slow but interesting. Then things get eerie. Then the adventure really starts. This is a top notch fantasy mystery survival adventure with good vs evil themes. The book frequently echoes actual fairy tales and fairy tale themes. I enjoyed the reminders of past experiences with fairy tales and fables. I believe the way it's handled would be a good introduction to fairy tales for someone who isn't familiar with those traditional stories, without interfering with their enjoyment of this book. There were times when the main character's inner voice and reflections sounded more like the elderly author than a boy of 17. That tendency gets a plot based explanation in the epilogue. I liked the book a lot regardless. If you like portal fantasy where the main character leaves ordinary life for a strange new world, read this book. If you like epic high stakes fantasy featuring good vs evil, read this book. If you like creatively drawn intimidating monsters, read this book. If you like coming of age adventures, read this book. If you like creative retelling of old stories, read this book. If you like adventures with brave loyal companions, read this book. The dog steals the show. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.

Sai King never lets me down, and once again he's written something so enchanting I didn't want it to end. Reading stories like this takes me back to childhood, when pretty much every book I read had me wonder struck. Shades of The Dark Tower and The Talisman, I became completely immersed in Charlie's unusual journey and enchanted with the things he saw and the characters he met along the way, I kinda miss them now it's over. All the feels were most definitely felt, especially when it came to Radar, I'm a sucker for a pooch and there's really nothing quite like an old fashioned good dog 🐕. All the shiny stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ oh and a couple of moons too 🌝🌝 (if you know, you know 😉).

What an adventure!

4.75⭐ Porque no me ha conquistado como se las arregla el protagonista para terminar con el gran mal que habita en la ciudad del otro mundo. Me ha parecido infantil. Aún así, King se toma su tiempo para narrar esta novela y, en mi opinión, no me he aburrido en ningún momento. Todo lo contrario. Además, me han encantado las ilustraciones que aparecen al inicio de cada capítulo. Finalmente, cualquier lector, sea constante o no, podría disfrutar un montón de esta historia tan fantástica. De hecho, si no has leído nada de King te la recomiendo mucho para empezar. . Because it has not conquered me as the protagonist manages to end the great evil that lives in the city of the other world. It seemed childish to me. Still, King takes his time to narrate this novel and, in my opinion, I have not been bored at any time. Also, I loved the illustrations that appear at the beginning of each chapter. Finally, any reader, constant or not, could enjoy a lot of this fantastic story. In fact, if you haven't read anything by King, I highly recommend it to start with.

I remember coming out of the movie Avatar and thinking the ordinary world just seemed so... ordinary. I felt the same way after finishing King’s latest novel, an epic, engrossing and completely entertaining story about a teen who discovers a portal to another world in which good and evil battle it out. King sets up the first part of the book – before any magic stuff – skilfully. You really get involved in the life of Charlie Reade, an athletic 17-year-old who lost his mother in a horrible accident ten years earlier and then nearly lost his father to alcoholism. One day Charlie, hearing the cries of a dog, helps out a crotchety old man who lives in a house that reminds him of the spooky old house in Psycho. He goes way beyond what a normal kid might do to help someone out. But that leads the man – who is not who he seems – to eventually hand him the keys to another world. And to look after his dog, Radar. When the book switches from realism to fantasy, there’s a lot to absorb. So many characters. So much world-building. But because we really like Charlie, and love his dog Radar (who’s getting old and sick), we head along the path, appreciating all the clever nods to various fairy tales and fantasy authors (among them Lovecraft and Bradbury). By the end, I was fully engrossed in this story. I loved how King fused modern day language with a sort of more formal and heightened diction used in high fantasy books. (He also cleverly solves the issue of how people understand each other when they’re speaking different languages!) There are brave acts of heroism; courtly love; a devastating look at a kingdom gone to seed (I swear some sections are as evocative as anything in Lord of the Rings); a moving look at the effects of bullying; horrific monsters. And it all starts because a kid wanted to save his old dog. Excuse me please while I descend on one knee, put the palm of my hand to my forehead and acknowledge the one and true King.

I really enjoyed this book, but I’m not sure it is what I would expect from Stephen King. It was a very slow ride which was ok, but I was expecting a little more suspense. The story did pick up, but even when it did it was still slower than normal. That being said, if it is well done, a slow moving story can still be good. I did think the beginning set up was a bit too long and had way too much obvious foreshadowing. But the magic and the creep factor in the fairy tale itself was a perfect blend. I don’t think there is a good way to describe this book without spoiling or getting too deep into the plot which is probably why the back is an excerpt from the beginning of the book. I will say this story had monsters, magic, a boy with a dog, and parallels to beloved fairy tales.

#4 Reread - February 2025 - ೃ⁀➷ 5 stars Fourth wing (noun) my favourite hello and my hardest goodbye… ─── ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ── #3 Reread - November 2023 - ೃ⁀➷ 5 stars I’ll never get over their soulmatery ─── ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ── #2 Reread - August 2023 - ೃ⁀➷ 5+ stars . . . Mrs Yarros, hmu if u run out of creative ways to carry out dainty boys death trope, I’ve got some amazing ideas. I’ll do u and everyone proud <333 Also everything from my first review still stands 😌👑 Also pt.2, yes. . . Yes, the ending still hurt WORSE the second time around 🥰🥰🔫🔫 ─── ⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ── #𝟭 𝗥𝗲𝗮𝗱 - 𝗠𝗮𝘆 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟯 - ೃ⁀➷ 𝟱 𝘀𝘁𝗮𝗿𝘀 TO ANYONE LISTENING YOU NEED TO GO INTO THIS BOOK AS BLIND AS POSSIBLE I PROMISE ITS GONNA ENHANCE THE EXPERIENCE TENFOLD. ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW IS THAT THIS WILL BE YOUR NEW FAV BOOK FOREVER <3 But for everyone else who needs to know… Here’s a quick rundown of the book: it’s about the daughter of a high-ranked general, Violet, getting ordered into learning how to become a dragon rider (but she doesn’t initially want to bc all she’s known are books her entire life) and so she commits to basgiath War collage where she goes through trials designed to root out the weak. She has to figure out how to best everyone and weaponise her strengths. While navigating her feelings for a certain forbidden boi. There’s romance AND (back arching) spice with sparks and tension galore. Also for everyone wondering, the ending isn’t that bad. It’s more of a promising cliffhanger. Makes you feel hopeful rather than making you want to crash and burn everything in your line of sight lmao. * I’m sorry in advance bc this review is gonna be gigantisaourus *wags brows* do you see what I did there? It’s been ages since I’ve loved all the MCs in a book so I deserve to go crazy on the fangirling, leave me alone 🙏 This book. THIS BOOK- It gives you EVERYTHING you crave in romantasy. The drama, the characters, the plot, the action, the betrayal, the romance, the tension, THE HOPE THAT THERE ARE STILL AMAZING BOOKS OUT THERE IN THE WORLD- AND IT JUST KEEPS GETTING BETTER- There is not a single dry page. Not one. It constantly stimulates your imagination. And there aren’t the usual boring unnecessary bs conversations happening, they’re almost always full of banter and in every chapter, something is happening. It’s fast-paced and that’s something I ADORE about this book. BUT CAN WE ACKNOWLEDGE THE FUCKING TENSION PLS?? The addictive chemistry between XadenVi will chew you up, eat you alive and then shit you out, effectively altering the composition of your DNA forevermore 😩❤️‍🩹 The dialogue in this book is so yummy istg I was always giggling and kicking my feet whenever the MCs would interact 🤭💗🦋 they’re both sarcastic funny smart and complement each other sm. I’m telling you this book never left me wanting for anything. There was never a time when I was like ugh the MCs hardly interact or wtv. There’s a perfect amount of every aspect in this book, I’ll never be able to get over it. While reading, it leaves you feeling as though you’ve lost a limb whenever you have to remove yourself from the book to carry out the most trivial inconvenience like feeding and hydrating yourself 😤🔪 I'm telling you this book is the only sustenance I need to keep me alive 🙏 Violet is me. I am Violet. We are one. No bc she is the most relatable character I’ve read in a long ass time. The way she is so reasonable, empathetic and HAS INTEGRITY. She’s not a pushover. She knows her mind and isn’t afraid to speak it when she feels the need to. There’s no ‘my body is betraying me’ bullshit. Not in this house. I’m in LOVE with violet sfmmm. She owns her feelings and demands what she’s owed. And when Xaden challenges her but she takes it as an incentive to poke and tease him back tenfold is ✨💗🦋🤌 Watching her grow and become stronger was one of the most satisfying things about this book. Her character development was elite. She never changed her morals but she always adapts and moves on quickly and I cannot stress enough hm I love that about her. There wasn’t a single moment where I was annoyed at her for being hardheaded. She’s strategic but also carefree. She behaved like a normal 20-year-old would, not older/younger. XADEN is such a seductive menace but he’s MY precious seductive menace. He's always up for a challenge and he SERVES every freaking time. I love everything he has to say. He’s such a lil softy when it comes down to it. Him showing his love through his actions and constantly challenging Vi to do better?? It’s the way he never coddles her but also shaves years off his life, worrying about her safety for me 🥹💗🙏😩🦋💞✨🧸 I’m always waiting on hands and feet for any interaction with him whether it be his glares 🤭 their not so short glances across the classroom 💞 his sarcastic quips 💅 him being a brooding surly grump😩 him being lethally calm 👑 him obsessed with her every move 🙏💗 Him telling her not to look at him like that bc he only has sm restraint?? 🤌❤️‍🔥 (I have to note that Lance did it better sksksksk) BUT EVERYTHING HE DOES IS HOT PLS- The way I fell for him the first moment he was described?? Everyone is saying how he’s like this guy or that guy from this book and that and I’m just here like idc if he was an amalgamation of every MMC I love?? I DONT CARE BECAUSE IT MADE ME LOVE HIM EVEN MORE 👏 I respect Rebecca for plucking the best traits of every fantasy MMC, like don’t be shy put some more 💀✋ And there are the dragons but all you need to know is that each one has their personality. They rule themselves. They're the real legends here. And the way this author has weaved them into the book is just MWAH *chefs kiss* The found family in this book is the most precious thing ever. I loved to read how they’re bonded together and I can see that each relationship has the potential to grow into something really special ugh I cannot wait for the next books 😩 Okay SPOILERS ahead!! bc your girl gotta scream <33 - - - When Tairn came out of wherever tf he was hiding I was screaming and legit shaking from the adrenaline. I’m still having a hard time accepting how good this book is! I thought she would only get Andarna and I was kinda disappointed bc the moment Tairn got mentioned in that lesson I JUMPED ON THE IDEA OF HIM SO FAST YOU DONT UNDERSTAND. But when he came to save her and Goldie AND THEN SPOKE TO HER IN HER MIND?? I BROKE DOWN AND HOWLED. SO. FUCKING. LOUD. And then Andarna was like “TELL HER MY NAME AS WELL” and I’m- *passes out from yelling so much* I LOVE ANDARNA SFMMM SHES THE MOST ADORABLE CUTE LITTLE SUNSHINE IVE EVER HAD THE PLEASURE TO READ ABOUT 🥹🫂💗😫💞🧸 The light of my life I’m telling you. she must be protected at all costs. (But omg at the end Xaden was like Goldie’s gone huge and I’m here like oop- I NEED TO SEE HER RFN) I love how Tairn is a dad adjacent to Violet 🙏 he’s my grumpiest overprotective pookie 🤭💗with STRONG feelings for his mate skskdhjd (I’m kinda jelly of Sgaeyl ngl) ALSO HOW FUCKING DARE YOU REBECCA!! You ripped my heart out of my chest, gave it a thousand paper cuts and flung it into a volcano for good measure. Liam's death BROKE me🔪 I cried too many fat ugly tears 😭 it was unbearable *shaky breath* but when XADEN found out and cried the cry of all cries?!? Me: (;´༎ຶٹ༎ຶ`) X 100 And the fact that her brother is alive made me do a lap around my garden from sheer satisfaction bc I WAS FUCKING RIGHT. 15% in I guessed that he would be alive but he’ll be part of the “wrong” side of the war and it’s been kept a secret bc of the shame/treason and AHHH *does cheerleader flip and cartwheel* And Dain?? That pussy ass lil BITCHHHH- I wasn’t born with enough middle fingers to let you know hm I feel about him. He’s basically Adam from shatter me, and fml bc my reread is just gonna be me wanting to rip his spine out and strangling him w it whenever he speaks 😃🔫 But when that inntinnsic called his every thought out to the crowd it was the most hilarious shit ever pls 💀 he’s so pathetic. SPOILERS OVER One thing I have to say is that this book is not perfect. The action aspect of the book gets a LOT better towards the end imo but the start was a little rusty and needed some finesse but idc idc I’ll take it, faults and all. After all, I’m a character development lover so I can overlook it. BUT THE WORLD BUILDING IS- ヽ(♡‿♡)ノOml the way this author writes leaves you ON THE EDGE WHITE KNUCKLING YOUR SEAT GASPING SHAKING SCREAMING bc you have no idea what will happen next. IT'S THE BIGGEST FLEX TO NOT ONLY OUTDO THE OGS BUT TO EXCEL PHENOMENALLYYYYY AT IT AS WELL 💅✨ REBECCA YAROS YOU ARE AN ICON BC I GOBBLED UP EVERY SCENE EVERY CHAPTER EVERY WORD. 𝗦𝗶𝗱𝗲 𝗻𝗼𝘁𝗲: I think it’s become my favourite fantasy book ever. Maybe joint place with ZA and that’s a huge deal 🙏 𝗦𝗼𝗻𝗴𝘀: 🎧 https://open.spotify.com/playlist/7pV... 𝗙𝗮𝘃 𝗤𝘂𝗼𝘁𝗲𝘀: I HAVE 324 HIGHLIGHTS IN TOTAL TF! “Stay the hell away from Xaden Riorson.” “Why would I waste my energy killing you when the parapet will do it for me?” A wicked smile curves his lips. ~HES PERFECT 😭🙏💗🤭🦋💞✨🤌 “Now, get back to bed before your wingleader realizes you’re out after curfew.” “What?” I gawk after him. “You’re my wingleader!” “Fascinating. You look all frail and breakable, but you’re really a violent little thing, aren’t you?” “You don’t think you’ll need those?” I ask, palming my own blades. His chest is massive, with wide shoulders and heavily muscled arms alongside. A target this big should be easy to hit. “Nope. Not when you brought enough for the both of us.” A wicked smile curves his mouth as he stretches out his hand and curls his fingers in a come-hither motion. “Let’s go.” ~the scream I scrumpt “Going for blood today, are we, Violence?” he whispers. “I just need to know what my chances are here.” My hands curl into fists. The ass has the nerve to smile. “That’s the oddest way I’ve ever been hit on—” “Not my chances with you, you conceited prick!” ~HAHAHHAHA I LOVE HIM SFMMMM “I catch Jack Barlowe running a finger across his neck at me. So original. “ ~Lmaooo i love Violet “Chest heaving, my lungs desperate for air, I chance a look over my shoulder to see why Tynan’s retreating. And my heart lurches into my throat.” ~ I LITERALLY JUST SCREAMED MY HEAD OFF IM ACTUALLY SHAKING SFM MY PHONE JUST FELL OUT OF MY HANDS HAHA IM IN FUCKING BLISS AAAHHHH IVE WANTED THIS SINCE IT WAS MENTIONED AKDGJEJDHEIRNDYRS YES YES YES I LOVE THIS FOR HER OMG SHES GOT THE BEST ONE QKSGJDUEE HE CHOSE HERRRRR GUENDUDNVD “Step aside, Silver One,” a deep, gruff, definitely male voice orders. I blink. Wait. What? Did he just speak to me? “Yes. You. Move.” ~AHAAHHHHHHHHEEEEEHEHHHEHEHHEHEHEHEHEHHEHEHEHHEHEM OMGOMGOMGOMGOMV GUEGSUBEJDHRIR IM SCREAMING WITH THE BIGGEST FUCKING GRIN ON MY FACE OMFDSSSSBFUFHIFHFIRURKFHJFJTJR “You’re making us look bad. Stop it.” I LOVE HIM HAHAH “You’re freakishly calm for someone who just heard she’s about to be hunted.” “It’s a typical Wednesday for me.” ~she really out here calling it fan behaviour ✨💅👸 “You’ll have to—” “I know how to handle a corset.” ~Scream scream screammmmmm “Have you always been this tall?” I blurt the first thing that comes to mind. “No. I was a child at some point.” ~BAHAHAHHA I WAS NOT EXPECTING THAT OMF 💀💀 “Fuck it.” ~IM SAT IM SAT IM SAT “Interesting. I didn’t take you for an exhibitionist.” “Keep pushing, and I guess you’ll find out.” His gaze drops to my mouth. ~YOOOO IM HOWLINGGG THIS SCENE IS SCRUMPTIOUS “Fuck, that stubborn, feisty look always makes me want to kiss you.” “So then why are you here, Xaden?” “Because I can’t seem to stay away.” ~STOP IT RFN “Fuck, I’m never going to get enough of you, am I?” “Only within these walls,” he says quietly, and I understand what he means. ~sobbing “You’re going to be the death of me.” “Come on, let’s get you to bed.” I lean in and kiss the scar on his eyebrow. “It will be tomorrow when you wake up.” “I don’t deserve you.” His arm curls around my hips and he tugs me closer. “But I’m going to keep you all the same.” “You have everything I have to give.” “I fucking love your hair. If you ever want to bring me to my knees or win an argument, just let it down. I’ll get the point.” ~just stab me in the chest already Seconds later, his soundless, soul-rending scream fills my head with such force that my heart shatters like glass against a stone floor. ~I’m sobbing fat ugly tears rn 😭 DAIN WAS RIGHT FUCKING THERE?!!! WHYYYYYY 🔪 “(…) just grins and opens his arms.” ~I WAS RIGHT I FUCKING KNEW IT 𝗕𝗼𝗼𝗸𝘀 𝘄𝗶𝘁𝗵 𝘀𝗶𝗺𝗶𝗹𝗮𝗿 𝘃𝗶𝗯𝗲𝘀: Divergent Zodiac Academy Harry Potter ACOTAR *** 1 hr post losing a limb - how do I move on?? My heart my brain my soul wont let me even THINK about anything other than XadenViDiaries… 😭❤️‍🩹 *** 5/5/23 — I’m halfway through the book and if you want a measurement of how obsessed I alr am… I’ve kept the map for this world as my home screen, Pinterest boards galore, made a Spotify playlist, 135 highlights and again- I’m only halfway through this book! My obsession is just a Fetus atm and I'm scared of the monster this book is gonna give birth to once I’ve finished 💀🤡🙏

∞/5 ★’s ⁀➷ ❝a dragon without its rider is a tragedy. a rider without their dragon is dead.❞ welcome to the fourth wing 🐉 °❀⋆.ೃ࿔*:･･:*.ೃ࿔⋆❀° 𝓼𝓹𝓸𝓲𝓵𝓮𝓻 𝓯𝓻𝓮𝓮 𝓹𝓸𝓻𝓽𝓲𝓸𝓷 what is more than infinity stars? i’ll tell you what. it’s this book. besties let me just start with saying…i am a romance/dark romance girly through and through. the only other fantasy books i’ve ever read were the acotar books and that series was so good. easily one of my favorite series ever, but fourth wing? it was even better…literal chefs kiss🤌i was hooked from the very first sentence to the very last. i’ve read one of rebecca’s romance books and i loved it, but her writing fantasy?! she ate that up and left zero crumbs. this is easily one of my top reads of 2023. fourth wing was action packed and the romance was amazing. ❥ 𝓉𝓇𝑜𝓅𝑒𝓈: ⤷ found family ⤷ enemies to lovers ⤷ slow burn ⤷ touch her and you die ⤷ morally grey mmc ⤷ forced proximity ❥ 𝒶𝑒𝓈𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓉𝒾𝒸: ⤷ dragons ⤷ academic setting ⤷ divergent vibes ⤷ dystopian fantasy ❥ 𝓅𝓁𝑜𝓉 𝓈𝓊𝓂𝓂𝒶𝓇𝓎: this book is about violet sorrengail, the daughter of a high ranked general. most of her life she was practicing/training to be apart of the scribe quadrant because of her love for books and her intelligence, but her mother told her that she must follow in her siblings footsteps and become a dragon rider. violet is in no way prepared for that, but she ends up going to basgiath war college to do exactly what her mother asked of her. to become a dragon rider, you must pass all these very deadly challenges that are designed to kill off the weak. while violet is trying her very best to become a dragon rider…she‘s constantly fighting her attraction for xaden riorson (her enemy that she was told to stay away from). xaden is a well respected wingleader of the fourth wing and his one goal was to kill violet because of the family she belongs to, but what happens when her life suddenly becomes tethered to his? ❥ 𝓂𝓎 𝓉𝒽𝑜𝓊𝑔𝒽𝓉𝓈: this book was so easy to follow and it was so fast paced. i was a little intimidated because the font was small and the chapters were longer than i usually prefer, but there was not a single page in this book that was boring. i’m usually the type to see how many pages are left in a chapter, but i simply did not care. i was fully consumed by this book and got totally lost in it. the action…it caused me a LOT of anxiety, but i ate that shit up. this book had my heart RACING. there were so many parts in this book that literally took my breath away…had me forgetting how to breathe. the romance!?! ♾️/10. the angst, the spice, the banter…literally everything you want for a romance plot. the writing was absolutely amazing. the descriptive writing omg…10/10. it was so easy to picture all of the different settings and picture everything that was happening. i felt like i was sitting in the front row watching this entire book unfold. this book has so much potential to be turned into a movie omg please😭cast theo james as xaden IMMEDIATELY and then cast me as violet🤭and then let’s just erase dain completely. i adored most of the characters in this book. i love when i fall in love with side characters just as much as main characters. °❀⋆.ೃ࿔*:･･:*.ೃ࿔⋆❀° ❥ 𝓋𝒾𝑜𝓁𝑒𝓉 𝓈𝑜𝓇𝓇𝑒𝓃𝑔𝒶𝒾𝓁 (𝓋𝒾𝑜𝓁𝑒𝓃𝒸𝑒): ⁀➷ ❝i am the sky and the power of every storm that has ever been. i am infinite.❞ ⁀➷ ❝i will not die today.❞ this woman. one of my all time favorite fmc’s who i admire so much. her character development was phenomenal. i swear it was the most satisfying thing about this book. as soon as she was painted to be this tiny, weak, helpless woman…i was impatiently waiting for my girl to prove everyone wrong and she DID that. i love how well she knew her own mind and was not afraid to come forward and speak it. a place like the riders quadrant is where people go and get stripped of their humanity, but i love how violet kept all her morals intact. she knows who she is and y’all she is THAT bitch. the way she had so many people wanting/trying to kill her, but she never lost sight of who she was so when it came to her having a perfect chance to end the lives of those who wanted to end hers…she didn’t want to do it. it’s not her. ahhh i just love her so much. ❥ 𝓍𝒶𝒹𝑒𝓃 𝓇𝒾𝑜𝓇𝓈𝑜𝓃 (𝒽𝓊𝓈𝒷𝒶𝓃𝒹): ⁀➷ ❝fascinating. you look all frail and breakable, but you’re a violent little thing, aren’t you?❞ immediately theo james. that is who he reminds me of. but then THE FANART!?! was not prepared😩xaden is a man you steer clear from and because he’s that kinda man…sign me and violet the fuck up cuz we’re THERE…on our knees. he’s the type of man that raises your pulse because of fear or lust…there’s no in between. xaden has so many walls up and throughout the book, violet tears those down…one by one. i loved xaden’s character from the start which is crazy to say because he made it very clear that he wanted to kill violet. but just know this… behind every villain is me falling in love with them. ⁀➷ ❝i might be a villain to some, but not you.❞ this man could literally run me over with his dragon and i’d still chase after him. i love his leadership and it meant so much more to me after finding out about his past. this man deserves the world. i love how protective he is and how he always challenged violet to do better and get stronger. AND HE’S FUNNY!? he had me giggling, swooning, kicking my feet, BLUSHING. this man may not be real but he gave me real butterflies in my tummy every time he spoke. ❥ 𝓇𝑜𝓂𝒶𝓃𝒸𝑒: first things first. the spicy scenes…i’m blushing just thinking about them. they definitely live in my mind rent free. the sexual tension was REAL. the things xaden did for violet throughout this entire fucking book. ⤷ he had an entire arsenal of daggers crafted specifically for her. ⤷ he designed a saddle for tairn so that she could ride without falling to her death. ⤷ he taught her how to defend herself. ⤷ he protected her when she needed it. ⤷ he had a harness made for andarna that attaches to tairn so she could keep up with them. ⤷ he picked violets for her…😩 this man is the definition of perfect. idc. i will stand by this man forever. he was one of the very few people who saw violet’s potential. he allowed her to handle herself because he knew that she could. he respected her and he showed it in more ways than one. the way he nicknamed her violence😭🤭 ⁀➷ she exists, and i get turned on. ⁀➷ i can’t help it. i smile. this brilliant fucking woman is mine. ⁀➷ ❝not all strength is physical, violet.❞ this man seriously owns me. like i am SAT. i just love the way violet was told to stay away from xaden because he’s dangerous, but she found the most comfort with him. her trying to resist him and his attractiveness is me af… ⁀➷ beautiful. fucking. asshole. ⁀➷ you are not attracted to toxic men, i remind myself, and yet, here i am, getting all attracted. ⁀➷ toxic. dangerous. wants to kill you. nope, doesn’t matter. my pulse still skitters like a teenager. one of my all time favorite enemies to lovers romance i swear it was so good and written perfectly to me. i love these two endlessly🥹🤭 ❥ 𝒻𝑜𝓊𝓃𝒹 𝒻𝒶𝓂𝒾𝓁𝓎: i will be talking more about the side characters, but talking about them in depth means spoilers. so let me just say this…rhiannon, aurelie, liam, heaton, sawyer, ridoc, and mira. the love i have for these characters🤭🤭then we have the dragons deigh, andarna, sgaeyl, and tairn. there is nothing i can say about them without completely spoiling a bunch of stuff so just know that the dragons are literally my favorites. they are in charge of everything that has to do with dragons and they’re all different! the excitement i have for the next books to see all these relationships grow. i wanna know more and i’m wondering if rebecca will have some of the books in this series be in some of their povs…but please i seriously wouldn’t mind having three or more books about xaden and violet, kinda like the acotar series!! but just know that there are so many characters in this book to fall in love with hehe. °❀⋆.ೃ࿔*:･･:*.ೃ࿔⋆❀° ❥ 𝒻𝒶𝓋𝑜𝓇𝒾𝓉𝑒 𝓈𝒸𝑒𝓃𝑒𝓈: “now, get back to bed before your wingleader realizes you’re out after curfew.” “what?” i gawk after him. “you’re my wingleader!” ~this had me giggling🤭 “going for blood today, are we, violence?” he whispers. metal hits the mat again and he kicks it past my head and out of my reach. he’s not taking my daggers to use against me; he’s disarming me just to prove he can. my blood boils. “my name is violet.” i seethe. “i think my version fits you better.” he releases my wrist and stands offering me a hand. “we’re not done yet.” ~them on the sparring mat for the first time🫠the way he taught her lessons without hurting her. then he guides our hands back to my ribs and slides the ruby-hilted blade back into its sheath. the move is unnervingly…hot. “you’re not going to disarm me?” i challenge as he releases his grip and pushes up more, removing his weight from my body. my ribs expand as i take my full first breath. “nope. defenseless women have never been my type.” ~BYEBYEBYE nsync vibes LMAO “did you know that the first time i climbed these steps with dain, i was horrified that there wasn’t a handrail?” “did you know i can’t stand to hear his name on your lips while you’re leading the way to my room.” ~the jealousy is hot. “you should end the enemy at your feet.” “i can’t kill an unconscious man.” “he could kill you given the same chance.” “well, that’s a statement on his character. not mine.” ~I LOVE VIOLET’S CHARACTER SO MUCH. “have you always been this tall?” i blurt the first thing that comes to mind. “no, i was a child at some point.” ~xaden is effortlessly funny. “you’ll have to—“ “i know how to handle a corset.” ~okay so, run me over. “i should have killed him slower.” “i’m fine.” i’m not. “never lie to me.” ~🫠pls be mine. “i just need to know what my chances are here.” my hands curl into fists. the ass has the nerve to smile. “that’s the oddest way i’ve ever been hit on—“ “not my chances with you, you conceited prick!” ~THIS HAD ME ROLLING😭😂 psa: dain, jack, and all the other loathed characters that i don’t wanna waste time listing…WE DON’T SPEAK OF THEM HERE…unless you’re talking negatively about them. dain is literally tamlin and a redemption arc for him will not be accepted. °❀⋆.ೃ࿔*:･･:*.ೃ࿔⋆❀° 𝓼𝓹𝓸𝓲𝓵𝓮𝓻 𝓹𝓸𝓻𝓽𝓲𝓸𝓷 ❥ 𝓉𝒶𝒾𝓇𝓃 & 𝒶𝓃𝒹𝒶𝓇𝓃𝒶: i was SCREAMING when tairn landed because i just knew he was going to bond with violet, but at the same time i was sad because violet had been protecting andarna so i was rooting for andarna to bond with her and then THEY BOTH BONDED WITH VIOLET. violet is her. when tairn spoke directly into violet’s mind omg i was so excited 😩 ⤷ “i know exactly who and what you are, violet sorrengail.” i just love that one of the strongest dragons chose to bond with violet because of the person that she is omg. ⤷ “you will not fall. i will not allow it.” the way most dragons let their newly bonded riders fall to their death if they can’t stay on…but tairn put in extra work to keep violet on his back omg🥹tell me that tairn isn’t like violet’s second dad…and overprotective too. their bond is so precious. ⤷ “i’m proud you’re mine.” andarna is the most precious dragon i swear. finding out that she’s only two years old🥺🥺i love her so fucking much. the power she gave violet to freeze time, but if you use so much of that power, andarna could die. ugh the the way andarna trusted violet with that power. it just really goes to show how well violet carried herself throughout this book. at the end of the book, xaden said got big!! i cannot wait for for the next book. also can we just quick talk about how funny tairn actually was… ⤷ “you’re bleeding, stop it.” ⤷ “and to think, i’d almost forgotten just how loquacious humans are.” ⤷ “you’re making us look bad, stop it.” ⤷ “now get in the seat and actually hold on this time, or no one is going to believe that i’ve actually chosen you.” ⤷ ”there’s no need to shout. i can hear you just fine. the entire mountain can probably hear you.” ⤷ “pronunciation could use some work.” ⤷ “you’re worthy. at least i think you are, but you apparently don’t pay attention in class.” ⤷ “the closest translation for humans is probably ‘for fuck’s sake.’ now. are you going to stay in your seat this time?” ⤷ “stubborn silver human.” ⤷ “you only fell about a dozen times that trip.” ⤷ “this grumpy ass just caught you a dozen times, silver one.” ⤷ “and i could call you violence like the wingleader.” ⤷ “tell him if he harms you, i’ll scorch the ground where he stands. tell him, or i’ll take it up with cath. word for word, silver one.” ⤷ “i hear it’s all the fashion.” ⤷ “should i get the wingleader?” ⤷ “if they try anything, they’ll be a snack.” imagine having a dragon like tairn…😭 ❥ 𝓈𝑔𝒶𝑒𝓎𝓁: ⤷ “they’re a mated pair, tairn and sgaeyl. the strongest bonded pair in centuries.” SCREAMINGGGG! oh xaden…how your plans have changed. ⤷ “i belong to tairn and andarna…and, in some really fucked up way…xaden.” yes violet, yes you do. i love the way sgaeyl can talk directly into violet’s mind too. usually dragons can only do that to their own riders, but tairn and sgaeyl have such a strong bond🤭so now they’re all a lil family🥹 guys xaden and violet being able to speak directly into each others minds. i SCREAMEDDDD. also xaden’s pov for the very last chapter😭i hope the next book has more of his pov!! ❥ 𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓈 𝓂𝑜𝓂𝑒𝓃𝓉: “what changed?” frustration tightens my grip on the mug. “when exactly did you decide not to ruin me?” “maybe it was when i saw oren holding a knife to your throat,” he says. “or maybe it was when i realized the bruises on your neck were fingerprints and wanted to kill them all over again just so i could do it slowly. maybe it was the first time i recklessly kissed you or when i realized i’m fucked because i can’t stop thinking about doing more than just kissing you.” can anyone hear me screaming? ❥ 𝓇𝒶𝓃𝒹𝑜𝓂 𝓉𝒽𝑜𝓊𝑔𝒽𝓉𝓈 violet being able to wield lighting and xaden wields shadows…i love their signets so much! THE BETRAYALS aaaaa i’m so glad rebecca patched things up for the most part between xaden and violet because idk what i would’ve done if THAT was the cliffhanger. now i know i said we don’t speak of dain here but i’m about to drag this bitch through the fucking mud really quick. he was literally supposed to be violet’s best friend. i despise this man, IT SHOULD’VE BEEN HIM AND NOT LIAM. he consistently put violet down and made her feel like she wasn’t good enough to become a dragon rider and then he has the audacity to kiss her and shit and claim that he has feelings for her!? bro what. he’s actually the shittiest person. and then he stole violet’s memory. without her consent. she full on trusted this guy. ⤷ “i’ve unknowingly betrayed xaden…betrayed them all.” THIS HURT ME OK. violet finding out about xaden’s betrayal, and then dain’s betrayal, and then her feeling as if she betrayed all of them. it was too much. rebecca…listen to me😭the AUDACITY you had to make me fall in love with liam and then brutally rip him away from me. i could not stop crying. i want to cry right now thinking about it. he was such a fun character. he was literally violet’s protector ugh he was so sweet and flirty. i’m so pissed because i thought maybe rebecca was hinting at a little romance between liam and jesinia or am i the only one who thought that??? this is how y’all know i’m such a slut for romance. i just be pairing characters together after one little interaction lmao. but :( ugh it’s gonna take me a little bit to forgive you, rebecca. that death hurt me like no other and then when xaden found out, i cried HARDER. violet’s brother being alive…i cannot stop thinking about the next book. i seriously need it right now. i need to know everything. i’m honestly glad this was the cliffhanger tho because it’s not a devastating one hehe. °❀⋆.ೃ࿔*:･･:*.ೃ࿔⋆❀° 𝓼𝓹𝓸𝓲𝓵𝓮𝓻𝓼 𝓸𝓿𝓮𝓻 this fantasy book makes me crave more fantasy! i really stepped outside of my comfort zone with this one and i’m so glad that i did! not everyone is going to love it, but give it a try because if could be your newest favorite, like it is mine🤭 ❥ 𝒻𝒶𝓋𝑜𝓇𝒾𝓉𝑒 𝓆𝓊𝑜𝓉𝑒𝓈: ➛ ❝there’s no where in existence you could go that i wouldn’t find you, violence.❞ ➛ ❝none of this is worth it without you.❞ ➛ ❝i am annoyingly aware of everything you do.❞ ➛ ❝stop. fucking. coddling. her.❞ period. ➛ ❝we can love as cowards or die as riders.❞ ➛ ❝fuck, that stubborn, feisty look always makes me want to kiss you.❞ screaming ➛ ❝i fucking love your hair. if you ever want to bring me to my knees or win an argument, just let it down. i’ll get the point.❞ STOP IT RN. i’m obsessed with his obsession with her. ➛ ❝everything between us is real, violence.❞ ➛ ❝you get to feel however you want within these walls.❞ ➛ ❝you’re going to be the death of me.❞ ➛ ❝welcome to the revolution, violet.❞

5 ⭐️ If Throne of Glass, Divergent, Eragon, and Zodiac Academy had a baby. . . but this is better!!! *PS: I don't really even like ZA, but it's similar because of the academic setting, the heroine's journey to understanding her strength, and the enemies-to-lovers aspect (it's not quite a bully romance though). You know when you finish a book, and it leaves an ache in your chest because it was so good, and now it’s over? Yeah, that’s exactly how I feel after finishing Fourth Wing. Summary: There are only two ways to leave Basgiath War College: graduate or die. ⁠ ⁠ Violet was supposed to enter the Scribe Quadrant and live a quiet life among books. However, when her mother, the commanding general, forces her to join the Riders Quadrants to become a dragon rider, she must push herself past all limitations in order to survive. ⁠ ⁠ Staying alive would be a lot easier if Violet didn't have a target on her back for not only being 'small and frail' but the daughter of the woman responsible for the deaths of many cadet's traitorous parents, including Xaden Riorson's - the most powerful and ruthless wingleader. She should stay away from him, but a fire burns between these two that is bound to consume them both. ⁠ ⁠ With stakes this high, every day could be her last. So Violet must learn to do the one thing she was never trained to do: fight. ⁠ "I will not die today." -Violet Sorrengail ⁠ WHAT TO EXPECT: ✨ adult romantasy ✨ true enemies to lovers ✨ war college setting ✨ dragon riders ✨ magic ✨ underdog fmc / chronic illness rep ✨ scarred anti-hero mmc ✨ unique world building ✨ complex politics ✨ found family ✨ high stakes ✨ insta-lust with slow burn ✨ 2/5 🌶️ (2 explicit spicy scenes) ✨ cliffhanger ending My Thoughts: I am utterly obsessed! Mark my words, this is the next big romantasy series! The writing is easy to digest, the world-building is fascinating, the heroine is an underdog and total badass, and the romance develops at a believable pace and is scorching! I laughed. I cried. And I fell in love. This book will forever live in my head rent-free! ⁠ Violet Sorrengail is a secret badass! I LOVE her!!!!! She’s a twenty-year-old bookworm who’s expected to live a life as a scribe but now must survive and become a dragon rider. Physically, she’s smaller and frailer than the other cadets in the quadrant, but that doesn’t make her weak. Her mind is her strength and what she needs to survive. I love how Violet handles her situation with courage and grace and how she creates meaningful relationships at the risk of her own heart. She’s extremely relatable, and I can’t wait to see how she grows. Xaden Riorson...this man has easily become one of my top book boyfriends of all time! The son of a traitor, he’s out for revenge against Violet, whose mother led to his father's death. From a distance, he’s a scary, scarred, intense anti-hero, but deep down, he’s a man who is loyal, caring, and wise. And the way this man obsesses with Violet….damn. You truly don’t know if he wants to kill or f*ck her, probably both, but yeah, it’s hot! The things I would let this man do to me. 🥵 The enemies-to-lovers romance was perfect, with an intense slow burn and eventually spice! I appreciated the time it took for these two to finally get together. And when they finally do, it’s explosive! Thank goodness this is new adult fantasy because the things Xaden says and did go straight to my core, lol. The dragons stole my heart. I don’t want to say too much because it would spoil some of the books, but they are terrifying and amazing!!! They have their own hierarchy and politics, which we don’t see much of since they’re very secretive, but it’s fascinating how they decide to bond with humans to create a symbiotic relationship that ultimately helps protect the land. Can't wait to learn more about them in the next book! The found family aspect was done so well! As a dragon rider, you're encouraged not to form strong attachments since most people in your school will either die before becoming riders or later on during battle. But Violet goes against this and finds her ride or dies - specifically Rhiannon and Liam! 💕 The world building so easy to understand yet very interesting. I’ve never actually read a series focused on dragons and dragon riders, so this was new and exciting for me! It was so interesting learning about the different quadrants - scribe, rider, healer, and infantry - and the schooling required for each. Obviously, this story focuses more on the Riders Quadrant, which honestly is the most exciting because it's so intense, challenging, and cutthroat. I personally don’t know if I’d survive, but maybe if I had a friend like Violet, it would be possible! PS: For all you Manon and Abraxos fans out there, you’re going to fall in love with this world!!! For the most part, the story was a bit predictable, but it’s all done in a way that I was entertained and excited to keep reading! I mean, we've seen similar stories where the seemingly weak heroine finds herself in a kill-or-be-killed situation and has to learn to fight and ultimately ends up thriving. So in that regard, you can guess where the story is heading. HOWEVER . . . That ENDING was everything I was not expecting! Those last 50 pages were absolutely epic and blew my fucking mind!!!!!! I DID NOT see that ending coming! I cried and then was left stunned by that last sentence. It's a cliffhanger, but it'll leave you more in shock instead of in pain, so don't be afraid of it! It's brutal and will make you want to immediately pick up the next book. Luckily we don't have to wait for long since the release date is November 7, 2023! But with everything I love, there are a few things I didn't like . . . Sometimes, the wording Violet used to concerning Xaden was a bit repetitive and immature. She kept describing him as beautiful and hot anytime he crossed her mind or showed up. I wish she would have used other words from time to time. The reader has to essentially piece together why Xaden falls for Violet. It’s quickly explained later in the story, but by then, it felt like we were being told more than shown. I would have liked for him to verbalize it more during the story. At least, more than him just saying things like “I can’t stay away from you”or “you’ll be the f*cking death of me”. Every time he's say those things, I was like, tell me why, though! Overall, Fourth Wing is an epic story that you will devour! I wouldn’t say this is a perfect 5-star read, maybe it’s closer to 4.5 since it wasn’t ‘perfect’, but honestly, I don't care. I haven’t read a fantasy I felt this way about in a long time, so I'm giving it all the stars. Thank you, Entangled Publishing, for sending me an arc copy in exchange for a review. As always, all opinions are my own. - The Empyrean Series: 1. Fourth Wing: 5 ⭐️ 2. Iron Flame: 3 ⭐️ 3. Onyx Storm: 3 ⭐️ 4. Book 4 5. Book 5 - Favorite Quotes: "Fascinating. You look all frail and breakable, but you're really a violent little thing, aren't you?" _______ “Are you going to die a scribe? Or live as a rider?” _______ "You want to know why you're still alive? Every day I let you live, I get to convince myself that there's still a part of me that's a decent person." _______ "Not all strength is physical." _______ "She should have killed you in the field, but she's merciful. That's not a flaw I possess." _______ "He cares for you. That’s already hard enough for him." "He cares about keeping me alive. There's a difference." "Not for him there isn't." _______ "I am the sky and the power of every storm that has ever been. I am infinite." _______ "There's nowhere in existence you could go that I wouldn't find you, Violence.” _______ "Oh, gods." "Which one are you calling out for? Because it's just you and me in this room, Vi, and I don't share." _______ "I'm going to keep you. You're mine, Violet." _______ "I would rather lose this entire war than live without, and if that means I have to prove myself over and over, then I'll do it. You gave me your heart, and I'm keeping it." _______ "None of this is worth it without you." _______

UPDATE- STFU IT'S BEING DEVELOPED INTO A TV SERIES 🤯😱 "A dragon without its rider is a tragedy. A rider without their dragon is dead." ✅ Reread done right (Aug 2023) I loved it as much as I did it the first time I read it, in fact I loved it more. Picked up on a lot of foreshadowing. Rebecca Yarros is a truly talented writer, the emotions I felt reading it were so genuine, I was fully immersed. The characters and the story are fire. I loved Xaden and Violet even more, hated Dain with passion, Tairn and Adarana continue to be badasses and Liam...I got no words, I love that guy. ~•~•~ ORIGINAL REVIEW 👇 (May 2023) THIS BOOK🤌🤌 Y'all believe me it's worth the money. I am in loveeeeee, easily the best book I read this year and one of the best romantasy I've read in a while. Books like this are the reason I fell in love with reading. Let's just jump right in, cause am excited to write this review. Read if you like- ✔️ Zodiac Academy ✔️ Divergent ✔️ Throne of Glass ✔️ Dragons🐉 ✔️ Academia setting (war college) ✔️ High fantasy ✔️ Chronic illness rep ✔️ Enemies to lovers ✔️ Slow burn ✔️ Spice (3.5/5) 🌶️ "... There's nowhere in existence you could go that I wouldn't find you, Violence." Trained to be in the Scribe Quadrant, the FMC- Violet, found herself in the Riders Quadrant- the most elite of Navarre, where survival is of the fittest and the strongest. All she needs to do is not get killed and bond with a dragon, but it's not as easy. Not only she has to escape the clutches of the students who want her dead, with few dragons willing to bond; she also has to keep away from Xaden, MMC who wants her dead. From page 1 till page 633 I was hooked. The world building is detailed and well thought out. The plot is consistent and true to itself. The pacing, fluctuates a bit in the second half but mostly stays fast paced for the majority of the book. "Tell me what you're thinking?" "I was thinking you are exactly as I predicted the first time you took me in my room." "Oh yeah? And what was that?" "A very dangerous addiction." Coming to the characters- ⚡Violet- I loved her. She's brave, compassionate, goes to lengths to protect others and knows how to stand up for herself and others. Having had chronic illness, people always underestimate her (all but one) but that's what makes her an underdog. I liked how balanced her character and personality was, never over the top. Loved following her journey through the war school and boy how she developed and grew in those pages. 🖤Xaden- Idk if anyone else is saying this but I will- Xaden has the same vibe that Warwick from Savage Lands does, but Xaden does it better. There's just something about their personality that's so similar. Give the Savage Lands series a go if you liked Xaden. Anyway, I loved him so much. He's a badass. Once her started opening up, and we got to see the softer side of him- I was swooning. He's powerful, sexy, and knows when to pick his battles, certainly not a push over. Dain- What an ass. Radiates the same energy as Tamlin in ACOMAF. The other supporting characters are good as well, they grow on ya- especially the dragons and Liam. Tairn and Adarana have my heart. I loved them since the first time they spoke. They have a sense of humour, are badass and protect so fiercely. Saegyl was okay-ish, not much of her tbh. Now I want a dragon 😭 "I'm going to keep you. You're mine, Violet." "Only if you're mine." "I've been yours for longer than you could ever imagine." ❤️‍🔥❤️‍🔥 The romance is an angsty slow burn, enemies to lovers with spice and oh how brilliantly it was executed 🥰 I was all in my feels, swooning and melting and basically loved it. And if you like the characters being jealous, you'll enjoy that trope here too. I do think there was a pinch of "who did this to you" but wasn't that impactful. Xaden and Violet's chemistry is off the charts. They compliment each other so well and I like how open and honest they are with each other, and that both of them don't hold each other back and give the other room to make mistakes, learn and grow. It is a mature relationship yeah. Also, the smut was hot.. no seriously, things did get hot and broken down 🤭 The ending was an emotional rollercoaster. I was crying so much at one point, had to take deep breaths to resume reading. I cannot wait for the sequel 🤩 It's such a masterpiece in my opinion. I haven't felt this in love and so strongly about a book in a while and am so genuinely happy I read this 😭😭❤️ It's a binge worthy action packed romantasy with never a dull moment. You are missing out if you haven't read this. Idk what are you all doing, GO READ IT! I promise it won't disappoint. Y'all think Amazon will have a dragon? 🤔 ~•~•~ I have no words. I'm gonna take some time to collect my thoughts. But WOW. ~•~•~ Y'all I know I just started reading this but am already in love. I predict 4-5 star rating, hopefully that will be the case.

— 5 stars ✰ I LOVE YOU REBECCA YARROS ”you gave me your heart, and i’m keeping it. i knew i was going to love this book. the amount of five star reviews & the talk about fourth wing on social media had me intrigued since the beginning & i’m happy to confirm that this book is indeed worth the hype. like, mind-blowing-amazing 🫡 dragon, dragon-school, competition, tension, enemies to lovers, you get thrown right into the plot, you have amazing antagonists. this book was purely perfection. everything your heart desires, you’ll get it. nothing better than a fantasy novel with a subplot of romance, a good plot twist and am amazing cliffhanger. yes, you heard correctly. a cliffhanger. i might die right here right then because how am i supposed to wait that long for the sequel to come out? PLS GIVE ME THE SEQUEL NOW!! 🫠🫠 — xaden riorsen. the man of the hour. the moment he appeared, i fell in love with him. i might be exaggerating but who cares, right? it’s the way violet describes him, i mean, how could you not fall in love with a brooding dragon rider who has a cut through his eyebrow. what makes him even hotter is the fact that he is the leader of the forth wing and oh my god, his “welcoming” speech.. i don’t know how yarros managed to make him this hot in a few sentences only. it’s his confidence. yes, that must be it. totally not his broad shoulders. or his rank. or his dark hair. “i had it made for you.” his lips curve slightly. his love language has to be acts of service. this man might have taken a while to admit his feelings but the things he did for violet? unbelievable. he was so ruined for her & i was so ready for it. — violet, my beloved. i just loved how everyone underestimated her and then she showed them what’s beneath that “fragile” body everyone seems to think she has. what i enjoyed most about her was that we saw her development, saw her fight for the place in the school and proving everyone wrong. she has a good sense of humor and wit, making me giggle — especially when she was flirting with a certain someone. “there’s a fucking smirk on xaden’s arrogant, handsome face.” there were so many chapters i enjoyed that were purely about violet without any mention of xaden & that means so much to me. there have been so many fantasy books were i was just so bored out of my mind when the love interest wasn’t there bc not everyone knows how to write a badass fmc with a great personality. rebecca yarros absolutely nailed it tho. the plot is just so gripping, you get sucked into their story and just want to read more about their world. as i am a big fan of game of thrones & house of the dragons, this book was a total hit for me. i loved reading about the dragons, the different breeds, their history, their shape and color and abilities. — xaden and violet. violet and xaden. you know who they reminded of? tris and four. the young new girl everyone scoffs at, the intimidating older guy everyone fears. also let’s not forget that xaden was the only person mira told violet to stay away from 🤭 their first interactions were so full of tension already, i was giggling and blushing and they’ve only changed a few words by then. ”going for blood today, are we, violence?” did i mention that we get a training scene? but like a really hot, full of tension, angsty, fighting scene. she attacks him, he catches her fist, she tries again, he pulls her back against his chest, she jumps him, he pins her down. i could go on and on and on, believe me, it was really freaking hot. we even get a “let-me-see-your-injuries“ scene and if you thought the fighting scene was impeccable, then you have to read about this one. jaw? on the floor 💗💞🩷💕💘 ”there is no me without you.” — dain, what a hypocrite. you know who this ass reminds me of? adam kent and freaking gale hawthorne. i get that he wants to protect violet but he’s holding her back unlike xaden who wants her to unravel and become stronger. speaking of that, they remind me so much of warnette in that matter. i’m not done, they’re even torydarius coded. i loved seeing their relationship develop in a long time span. days pass, weeks pass, months pass. it’s not like they were enemies and then suddenly a week later they decided to like each other, nope, it definitely took them weeks to even admit their connection. they might be enemies to the core but who doesn’t love a good old enemies to lovers? also jack reminded me so much of cato hadley from the hunger games. i know he’s evil and all that but every books needs a cato. and he got we deserved sooo PLS I NEED THE NEXT BOOK AS OF NOW 💥💥

if y’all see me on the news tomorrow it’s because i broke into this author’s house and tried to steal the manuscript for the sequel… i can’t even begin to describe the attachment and love i have for this book and its characters. it’s one of my favorite books of all time now. the author really wrote the most heart wrenching, emotionally loaded, appetite terminating sentences and said “deal with it.” to put into few words: this new adult fantasy romance book is set at a war college, there’s dragons, and there’s 2 main opposing sides that hate one another. our fmc belonging to one and our mmc belonging to the other. i think you can see where this is going…WRONG because you could have 30 guns pointing at my head and i still wouldn’t have predicted THAT last sentence. all my brain matter would cover the wall behind me. Violet aka Violence (iykyk) is my favorite character all around. she’s just like me for real. the way she thinks and talks. she’s really a girls girl. i usually prefer dual pov but not in this case. being in her head made me realize i’ve never had an original thought. she’s a fmc written by a woman to its core. she strong, resilient, a fucking genius, badass, witty af, compassionate, and so damn attractive…god idk if i wanna be her or be with her… everything she goes through and overcomes made me shed a tear or 7. she’s unpredictable and that’s what i love about her. Xaden…i’ve never read a man described so damn sexy. i was in heat and prepared to do a line off this man’s stomach…his middle name is basically “self control” and the way that crumbles from just the mere existence of Violet. he says it best when “i’m annoyingly aware of everything you do…” i appreciated how he has a personality outside of the slow (and i mean slow) burn romance. he’s protective but not overbearing. he’s idealistic and charming without even trying. he “hates” her but literally had daggers made for her specific body shape and fit. he had a saddle made for her body type so she doesn’t fall off her dragon. he’s so thoughtful and attentive, it comes natural to him like breathing. the longing that’s in his eyes when he simply glances at violet (you’d think he’d be plotting her death from an outsider looking in) was written like poetry. Violet has him so tightly wrapped around her finger and they can’t even begin to understand the depths of it… one would think the romance would be my hyper fixation for this book but it’s not even that (not only that.) it’s the fucking dragons! the way they are described, have personalities of their own, the way they always check and roast Violet had me LOLing and giddy. the bonds they have with their riders felt as real as oxygen in the air! 😮‍💨 some quotes that aren’t spoilery but still had me barking like a dog in heat:👹 “heat rushes through every vein, wakes every nerve ending. I hate the reaction of my body to the site of him, but I can’t deny it. His appeal is so fucking inconvenient.” she is so me coded “i know how to handle a corset” and he does “There’s a palpable energy in every room, he enters, and brushes over my skin, like a caress each time our eyes meet. Even now, I’m aware of every breath he takes, as he sits next to me midway down the table.” “fuck, that stubborn, feisty look always makes me want to kiss you.” god he’s so miserable 😩 the MCs and dragons dynamic is so uniquely and well written like nothing else i’ve read. it’s so ying and yang coded. this book, in short, is a limb to me. cut it off, i bleed out and die! it is diverse, rich, deep, magnificently written, and every fiber of me loves it (i say all of this referring to a piece of media that ruined my life🥲)

"Decide, Violet. Are you going to die a scribe? Or live as a rider?" Oh, this is good. I see now why y'all love it so much. If Fourth Wing were a drug, I'd be an addict. It grabbed me so thoroughly from the very first moment and refused to let go. I was fully immersed, I didn't want to sleep, didn't want to eat. I just wanted to inhale it as fast as I could. And honestly, isn't this why we read, for this exact feeling? The action begins right on the first page and never lets up. There was no onerous worldbuilding, no endless backgrounds or introductions. We just seamlessly slip into the world of Navarre and Violet Sorrengail. Every time I get the itch to read fantasy, the one thing that holds me back is how much worldbuilding I would have to endure just to get to the good parts. But no such issues here. The good part starts right at the beginning. Is this the most original story? No. Is this the most well written? Also no. (Don't kill me for saying that, you rabid fans.) In fact, the dialogue has me cringing at times, with its penchant for f-bombs as emphasis and its often basic but slightly pompous back and forth that only teenagers can pull off. I guess in that way, it is true to its characters since they're all not much older than teenagers. But slight criticisms aside, this story is executed to perfection. It takes several well-trodden tropes and not only cohesively blends them together, but also manages to squeeze every ounce of entertainment out of them along the way. And I'm not above being entertained. This is my first real foray into the romantasy genre that's got everyone aflutter. And I can see the appeal. Fantasy is a bit of an adrenaline rush and so is romance, so blending the two together is really the perfect symbiosis. Of course you'd want your hero to fight hard in a war between good and evil. And it totally makes sense that they would love hard too if they could die any day. And if the object of desire is one's enemy instead of one's friend? Even better. I'm a little late to the Fourth Wing party, and there's good reason. I was certain this was a duology (don't ask me why I thought this), so I figured if I just held off a little bit, I could bam my way through both books without having to stop and deal with the inevitable anguish of waiting for the next book. Well, the joke's on me because this is actually a five-parter. So lots of waiting will be had by me. As a consolation, at least I can dive straight into Iron Flame. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ See also, my thoughts on: #2. Iron Flame #3. Onyx Storm ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧

Reread was somehow even BETTER?!!!! 6 stars 10000000 stars!!! My god I am absolutely FERAL!!! God tier. This series owns me. Xaden is number 1 book boyfriend, I can’t get him out of my head. It’s a disease. I’m sick. I don’t care. I still stand by Violet and xaden being soulmates. Whoever says otherwise needs to pick up another book. God reading this knowing everything we know at the end of iron flame made me realize just how much I MISSED!!! Solidified that I’m a vibes reader to my core. Also the ending of iron flame made this so immensely painful I cried like 5 times bye. I literally cannot think about anything else. Nothing compares and it makes me depressed. ——————————— Can I somehow give this 11 stars?!!! Because holy hell I can confidently say this book is now my favorite book of all time. I’m so invested in these characters and truly never felt so immersed in a book. I genuinely am in pain not knowing what’s going to happen to Xaden and Violet because we have 4 more books coming and they are SOULMATES! I just know my heart is going to be ripped out even more than it already is. How do I read another book after this?????

Omg this book. this book. this book. As soon as I finished the book I immediately started rereading all of my favorite scenes/chapters which is how I know I'm obsessed. First of all, the setting and concept is so cool. The book takes place at a war college for dragon riders. It gives slight Hogwarts/Harry Potter vibes but 100x more brutal and deadly. I also loved the politics and backstory of the outside world as well. And then we have the romance!!! Rebecca Yarros, I bow down to you for writing Xadan Riorson. That man 🥵🥵 The way you never know if he wants to kiss Violet or kill her. The way he's so mysterious and guarded but also has these surprising and small moments of kindness and loyalty. Instantly one of my top book boyfriends. November can't come soon enough. I need book 2 asap

I don’t think this 5 star rating will come as a surprise to anyone, but wow this book has everything! Badass characters, dragons you’ll fall in love with, and SO much sexual tension. A great book to begin with if you’re new to fantasy and aren’t really sure where to start. I found it easy to follow along and there wasn’t an insane amount of world building that would leave you bored. Loved this and can’t wait for Iron Flame!

another book whose world i would not survive in. even the sex is borderline dangerous. i got a papercut reading this book and almost cried...

“I would rather lose this entire war than live without you, and if that means I have to prove myself over and over, then I'll do it. You gave me your heart, and I'm keeping it.” i promise you, no one is more surprised than me. the hype really is real and valid, but what made me fall in love was something i was not expecting to find within these pages. i will honestly say that the content of this book was probably more of a four star from me (still amazing obviously), but the reading experience for me was truly above any five stars i could possibly give this. it has been so many years since the book community has had a book like this, where everyone is just vibrating with excitement. from the book being sold out everywhere, to all bookish platforms non-stop talking about it, to threads and threads of theorycrafting, to having the happiest of conversations with my friends, this book really is impossible to not know about if you’re in any part of bookish spaces. but why i think this book is so successful, and what surprised me the most, is the insane nostalgia this book was able to evoke from me, because fourth wing feels like all the fantasy series i grew up devouring and obsessing over. i completely recognize this is not a perfect book, but rebecca yarros has created a feeling that i haven’t felt since vampire academy, twilight, hunger games, divergent, falling kingdoms. i feel like she personally handed me a big cup of my favorite nostalgia, that i almost forgot the taste of, and for that she really is going to get all the stars from me. but the story of this book is good and solid, and the characters are truly amazing as well. violet is such an amazing main character, and i felt so much pride for her throughout this book. I love her sister, i love her bestie, i love all the dragons with my whole entire heart, and… xaden is six stars all on his own as well. i will forever adore a boarding school setting and a main character who loves the stories she grew up reading. And this book really did have a few good twists that surprised me. the pacing was great and made me never want to put this book down. overall, i really just do not have a bad thing to say - this was a complete joy to read and will forever be a happy memory of the reading experience. trigger + content warnings: war themes, mention of heart failure, loss of a parent in the past, loss of a loved one/friend, loss of an animal (dragon), death, murder, blood, violence, vomit, anxiety depiction, self sacrificing actions, and ableism (always in a negative light). i know i compared the feeling of this to many ya series i grew up loving, but this is a very adult book with very adult themes !! ♡ buddy read with Amy! blog | instagram | youtube | kofi | spotify | amazon

I am officially OBSESSED with this book! Having turned the last page over an hour ago, I'm still staring into the void, having no idea what to do with myself, and genuinely considering going back and re-reading it again straight away. It's THAT GOOD. Add this one to your TBRs, folks, and hit those preorder buttons, because it is PHENOMENAL!! Edit: Re-read in September 2023 in prep for the sequel.

reread #3 my heart,body and soul are so ready.

Reading it for the second time was somehow even better. Personal note for Dane: pls gtfo

[EDIT: bumping up to 5 stars because I literally haven’t stopped taking about it] This book is taking the world by storm at the moment, and I can see why. While I love the concept of dragons, I often don't find myself overly loving stories about them - until now. This is a story that took me awhile to get into, but once invested I found myself entirely enthralled. The high stakes of the dragon rider training had me flipping the pages endlessly, and the kinda-love-triangle, kinda-enemies-to-lovers relationship dynamics had me by a chokehold. Just as a note too, I didn't realise how much it would mean to me to see a main character with chronic pain/leg issues still smashing it - and also without it being a big deal. In this book we see Violet actively work with her limitations, adapt situations to fit, and engage in those conversations about supposed "weakness" and how adapting a situation isn't cheating. Violet also points out at one point how she has strength of endurance with her chronic pain, that she's used to continuing despite it where others may come to a halt at an injury. This is a thought I've had myself, and seeing it written in a fantasy book felt jarring and comforting in one. It meant a lot to me, and I can see it having the same affect on others too. I really expected to be underwhelmed by this given all the hype, but I'm just here to add my voice to it now.

Fourth Wing made me want to join a dragon rider school. Except I'd probably die on the parapet, worth it though.

Infinity and beyond/5⭐️ Whenever people ask me what my favourite book of all time is, I was never able to give them a real answer because I never had one… until NOW!!! This book… IS THE BEST BOOK I’VE EVER READ IN MY ENTIRE EXISTENCE!!! The way I already want to reread it even though I’ve only just finished it?!?! This book is the type of book you will never get over. The type of book which is unforgettable. The type of book that you become obsessed with and make it your whole personality. The type of book you create millions of playlists for. The type of book that you want everyone to read but at the same time want to gatekeep because you think no one will ever love and understand it the way you do. The type of book that you can’t stop reading but don’t want to end at the same time. The type of book that is just… P-E-R-E-F-C-T!!! Let me just tell you… If you love the movie “How to train your dragon”… if you love enemies to lovers… if you love sizzling sexual and romantic tension… if you love a powerful, badass and strong female main character… if you love the found family trope… THEN PICK THIS BOOK UP RIGHT NOW!!!!!!! Like hello?!?! This book is absolutely everything!!! I have to say.. this book has everything in it for it to be the perfect, most amazing book of all time, at least in my humble opinion.. It just has everything I’ve ever wanted a book to have! Dragons (with amazing and different personalities), dragon riders, amazing quests, fighting scenes (which are very well written and easy to follow), epic romance, fun side characters, angst, character development, character depth, spicy scenes, incredible main characters and so so much more! I’m a big fan of the “How to train your dragon” franchise and absolutely love dragons in general!! And I’ve never read a book where dragons are really part of the main plot and event of the book. Sure there’re many books with dragons in it but most of the time they’re only briefly mentioned or seen. Never were they actually heavily important to the plot and if they are, they’re not written the way I want them to be written if you get what I mean… at least until this book!! It is about a freaking dragon training college!!!! Like how freaking awesome is that?!?! And the fact that the dragons actually have personalities?!?!! I’m in absolute love!!!! Tairn, Andarna and all of the other dragons own my freaking heart and soul!! And I also love how the dragons aren’t portrayed as war weapons or anything like that! They’re actually respected and looked up upon!! It just perfect!! And the bond and connection that they form with their riders… I’m in awe!!! Also the depth of dragon history in this book is exactly how I always wanted it to be!!!! It is just a dream come true for me… However, not only is that aspect perfect in the story but so are the characters!! Starting of with our FMC Violet! She may be portrayed as weak in the beginning but the way she fights herself to the top and never gives up and has such an amazing, badass personality?!?! I’m in love with her!! She’s so honest which I absolutely adore about her character! She never backs down and always speaks what’s on her mind!! She’s just too perfect for her own good but yet at the same time still has flaws that make her human and real!! She’s just so well written. I honestly believe that she is the best FMC I’ve ever read about and I just loved reading through her POV!!! There wasn’t a moment I couldn’t get enough of her!! She’s also funny, witty and intelligent which makes me love her even more!!! Next we have Xaden… he is my new favourite book bf and MMC!!! He may seem cold, closed off and mysterious throughout most of the book but once he opens up, he is so much more than that! He really is the definition of misunderstood and I absolutely love him. The fact that he’s also morally grey AND an Anti-Hero?!?! So good. He deserves everything good in the world and I just loved the way he thinks, feels about and looks at Violet. He doesn’t baby her and actually sees her potential!! I also hope that we get more of his POV in book 2 because seeing how obsessed he actually is with our girl Violet had me on my goddamn knees!!! The side characters are also all so freaking important to me!! Liam, Rhi and everyone else…. I love them all so so much and I loved how they actually got depth to their characters instead of just being there. Also the friendships and found family between everyone is so heartwarming and adorable and makes the reading experience even more enjoyable than it already is! I’m also so excited to see more of them and their friendships in book 2!! Now let’s finally get to the romance… it was so freaking incredible!!! Well written and paced and the tension ughhhh THE TENSION!!!!! It was to freaking die for!!! They were also real true enemies to lovers!! Like the way they literally despised each other at the beginning was so fucking well written that I actually believed it at some points but yet at the same time there was this sizzling sexual and romantic tension between these two…. I was in complete and utter awe!!!! I also adored how they matched each other’s energy and vibe instead of them being like complete opposites! They really worked so well together and matched each other perfectly!! Especially in the sense of seeing each other’s true selves instead of the mask they have on for everyone else. They truly get one another which makes me love and adore them even more! It is a match made in heaven and true soulmatism if you ask me!! Also the forced proximity between these two (iykyk)… ugh it was just perfect… While the plot was very character driven it still had so much more to it!! Like the political conflicts, the war, obviously the amazing dragons and their history… it was all so perfectly aligned!!! Also once again… the bond between dragon and riders.. It was so freaking well constructed and the concept of it… I’m completely in love!!! I also want a dragon of my own now!!!!! I’m just obsessed atp tbh lmao… Overall, this is my absolute favourite book of all time and while I want to keep it all to myself I also want the world to know about it and fall in love with it the way I did. So please… READ THIS BOOK AND BECOME AS OBSESSED WITH IT AS I DID!!!!!! You definitely won’t regret it. Rebecca Yarros is an absolute genius and I can’t wait until November for book 2 because that ending… It really had me shocked to my core and I need to know what happens next!!!!!!!

4.5 stars hey violet, how does it feel to LIVE MY DREAM?

I have seen this book everywhere and finally picked it up when friends told me it was their favorite book of the year. I started reading it and was immediately sucked in. This is new adult, so the characters are in their early 20s and attend a school training dragon riders. I haven't been pulled into a story like this in a long time. I couldn't stop thinking about it when I wasn't reading it and needed to pick it up again. The dragon world was so interesting and I loved how action packed this was and how the author wasn't afraid to kill of characters from the beginning. And the romance!? Obsessed. I was THRIVING when there was a touch or even a glance. And the dragons!? They were definitely some of my favorite characters. I loved the dynamic between certain characters and their dragons. And the end!? I need book two now! To me, this was definitely worth the hype and you need to pick it up!

Not great but yet somehow a great time :')

Check out my 1 minute spoiler free video review here: https://youtu.be/d9P7Ky3XDIE The book features a newly married Hannah who discovers that her husband, Owen Michaels, has disappeared. He leaves her a note, “Protect her.” What could it mean? One thing. His daughter, Bailey. Bailey, the 16 year old, who is high on attitude and likes her stepmother as much as the typical 16 year old. What happened to Owen? How will things turn out for Bailey and Hannah? Clear your schedule because you will need to read this book non-stop! It wasn’t boring at all – this book was definitely thrilling! The book would focus on the present and then would cut to a flashback where Hannah is trying to comb through her memories looking for clues. This give the book such a realistic feel as when something goes wrong you try to think back on could you see this coming, what did you miss? The particular manner in which this book was written, it always felt as if you were going to make a big discovery eminently and would learn a little more, a little more along the way. The ending was also unexpected! It has been a long time since I read a thriller this good! Enjoy! *Thank you, NetGalley, for the free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and honest opinion! 2025 Reading Schedule Jan A Town Like Alice Feb Birdsong Mar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De Berniere Apr War and Peace May The Woman in White Jun Atonement Jul The Shadow of the Wind Aug Jude the Obscure Sep Ulysses Oct Vanity Fair Nov A Fine Balance Dec Germinal Connect With Me! Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango

⭐4.5 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙨 𝙞𝙨 𝙨𝙤𝙤𝙤 𝙢𝙮 𝙠𝙞𝙣𝙙𝙖 𝙗𝙤𝙤𝙠 𝙎𝙩𝙖𝙧𝙨⭐ 𝘛𝘩𝘦 𝘓𝘢𝘴𝘵 𝘛𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘏𝘦 𝘛𝘰𝘭𝘥 𝘔𝘦 is a domestic suspense/mystery that takes a unique look at family, loyalty and trust. The chapters we're short and to the point, no filler, yet I was very impressed by how vividly the characters were brought to life in such a short amount of time. I see that normally people refer to themselves as an outlier when they enjoy a book less than most and I think it's possible that I'll be a reverse outlier with this one but I was hooked from the beginning, loved the low-key drama and flew through the pages, needing to know how it would end. 𝘛𝘩𝘢𝘯𝘬 𝘺𝘰𝘶 𝘕𝘦𝘵𝘎𝘢𝘭𝘭𝘦𝘺 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘱𝘶𝘣𝘭𝘪𝘴𝘩𝘦𝘳 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘢𝘥𝘷𝘢𝘯𝘤𝘦 𝘤𝘰𝘱𝘺. 𝘙𝘦𝘭𝘦𝘢𝘴𝘦 𝘥𝘢𝘵𝘦 𝘔𝘢𝘺 4𝘵𝘩.

4.5 Stars Upgraded to 5 Stars... ...because even though I said below that I hated the ending...the ending also made this book really stick with me. I still think about it months and months later. So five big ones. Original Review I haven't been in a reviewing mood lately at ALL, but I wanted to get something down here before I completely forgot... I really enjoyed this one. I enjoyed Dave's writing and I liked how things were slowly revealed to us. I don't want to say too much as I obviously don't want to include spoilers, but I did enjoy how the relationship between Bailey and Hannah transformed over time, especially as revealed at the ending. Which brings me to just that: the ending... I didn't love it. At ALL. But I also wonder if I would have enjoyed the book as much without it. In fact, much of the book's power for me resided in the final "epilogue" scene, which wouldn't have been possible without the ending it had. So...definitely a conundrum. Very bittersweet, I guess. Anyway, I'll read more from this author.

Published Today! (4th May 2021) A suspenseful, addictive and surprisingly emotional mystery about family and love Hannah Hall receives a note from her husband Owen, saying only 'protect her' before he disappears, leaving Hannah to take care of his 16 year old daughter Bailey. What is going on? Where is Owen? Who can Hannah trust? And does she really know her husband? I really enjoyed The Last Thing He Told Me, and flew through the pages, needing to know what would happen to Hannah, Bailey and Owen! I always know I'm enjoying a book when I tell my husband about it, and when I think about it when I'm not reading, which was definitely the case here! I hadn't heard of Laura Dave before I saw a glowing review by my friend Ceecee, but decided to request it, and now I want to read more of this author's work because this hooked me in from the start, and kept me entertained until the end! I loved the writing style, it was really engaging, pulling me in fast, and keeping me on my toes, as I discovered all was not what it seemed. The story was told from Hannah's first person POV in the present tense. Present tense doesn't always work for me, but this one did, perhaps because it also had flashbacks into Hannah's past. It was a character driven story, and really focussed on their relationships. I loved Hannah, she was strong, independent, resourceful and real. I felt for her as she tried to muddle through such a stressful and worrying time, whilst still trying to win over her stepdaughter. Bailey was very well written as a teenager! Their relationship was so well written, and I enjoyed seeing the bond between them blossom. Motherhood comes in many forms, and you could feel Hannah's love for Bailey throughout the story. Owen had disappeared right from the start of the book, but I still felt like I knew him, due to the flashbacks, and from Hannah and Bailey's love for him. I also liked hearing about Hannah's grandfather, and his effect on her life. I've seen that some reviewers didn't like the bittersweet ending, but I cannot see how it could've ended any other way. I was satisfied with it, even though I couldn't see the writing at points because my tears blurred the words! I saw earlier that this is being adapted, which I am pleased about because this would transfer so well to the screen I think! This would be a great book to read to get you out of a slump, or if you want a quick, gripping, character driven story! Many thanks to NetGalley and Serpent's tail/Viper/Profile Books for my ARC, in exchange for an honest review!

Hannah is happily married to Owen, and struggling with her relationship with his daughter, Bailey, who is barely civil to her. Hannah’s husband disappears and she finds only a note with two words: “Protect her”. She knows the note refers to her stepdaughter Bailey. But why? And protect her from what? When Hannah receives visits from the FBI and a U.S Marshal, and does some digging herself, she begins to understand that her husband Owen was not who she thought he was. Told in two timelines – one with brief flashbacks to the past, which gives us context and a fuller picture of Hannah and Owen’s life together, and the second is in the present when Hannah and Bailey are forced to work together to find out the truth about Owen. Hannah is smart and intuitive in how she deals with Bailey and their relationship was one of my favorite things about the story. Set in Sausalito and Austin, Texas, Hannah navigates the twists and turns using her intelligence combined with good instincts. She has to reconcile the husband she knows and loves with the new information she receives about him. As the novel progresses, Hannah must figure out what she needs to do to protect Bailey, and make a difficult choice on how to move forward. How she does so was completely unpredictable, yet perfect, which elevated this from a typical mystery/thriller. Many books in this genre disappoint me with the ending, but in this case, I loved it. So much to love about this one. I loved the relationship between Hannah and Bailey. I loved that the author didn't make Bailey precocious or annoying (as so many teens in fiction). I loved that the ending, the choice she made was completely unpredictable. I loved the epilogue, and I usually hate them. I loved that Hannah was smart and intelligent with good instincts not only in her search for Owen, and making her final decision, but in dealing with a difficult teenager and navigating the stepmother/stepdaughter relationship. My reading buddy, Marialyce, and I both chose this for our BOTM selection last month and we were not disappointed! I read and enjoyed a previous contemporary novel of the author’s but this is a new genre for the author. I hope there are more to come! Recommended for those who love character-driven domestic mysteries that are still strong on plot. If you enjoy smartly written, strong, intelligent women protagonists, you will love Hannah.

The last thing Owen Michaels told his wife Hannah Hall before disappearing is ‘Protect Her’. He must be referring to his sixteen year old daughter Bailey with whom step-mum Hannah has a tricky relationship. After receiving the note Hannah and Bailey’s lives change in ways they could never have foreseen. The story is told by Hannah in the present and with flashbacks from her first meeting Owen which works really well. I couldn’t put this down!! This is how you write a domestic thriller novel! There’s nothing unnecessary, it’s not overlong, the chapters are short, crisp and to the point but the author skilfully creates a real feeling of authenticity. The writing isn’t flashy or over the top, it’s just darned good storytelling I engage with immediately. I love the chapter headings which have a good dose of wit about them. The settings are really good as is the characterisation. Hannah is clever, resourceful, an independent thinker and brave as she’s prepared to do whatever it takes. The portrait of teenager Bailey is very strong, you feel her confused and torn emotions. I like how their relationship changes, develops and morphs as they unite in their attempts to seek out the truth. There are some really good twists and turns in the well paced plot as Hannah pieces together what small snippets of information she has and maximises them. Their anger, confusion and uncertainty of what to believe about Owen comes across well and you admire Hannah’s ingenuity in piecing it together. There’s nail biting suspense as the very unpretty tale emerges which keeps me gripped throughout. The ending is maybe a bit too neatly tied in a bow but that’s not to say I don’t like it - I do!! Overall, I love this book, finding it a well written and very entertaining, enjoyable thriller demonstrating just how far people will go for love. With thanks to NetGalley and Serpents Tail/Viper/Profile Books. I received a free review copy from the publisher in exchange for an honest unedited review.

Protect her That was the last communication Hannah received from her husband, Owen, before he disappeared. The note was delivered by a 12 year old stranger. Hannah knew that Bailey, Owen's 16 year old daughter, was the person she was supposed to protect. But how? From what? Told in present day, with periodic flashbacks, we follow Hannah and Bailey on their quest to find the truth. As secrets are uncovered, Hannah questions if she really knew Owen at all. This is a gripping story from the beginning and it never let's up. The pages fly by until the very end. I didn't want to put it down. I found this to be a thrilling mystery as well as an emotional story. I enjoyed the relationship between Hannah and her step daughter. I can't wait to read more by Laura Dave! Thank you Simon & Schuster and NetGalley for this ARC in exchange for an honest review.

Thrilling page turner; couldn't put it down until I read the entire book. Highly, highly recommend!

This book is amazing! And I nearly missed out on it... thank you to my lovely friend Debbie who knows my reading habits so well, for putting it on my radar. I am excited to hear that Reese Witherspoon’s company Hello Sunshine is making a series out of it starring Julia Roberts. I for one will be tuning in. The Last Thing He Told Me is an intense page turner that you won’t want to stop reading. It is a wild ride following Hannah and her step daughter Bailey after Owen, the husband and father of these women, ups and disappears. The company that he has been working for is raided by the FBI and he is nowhere to be found. As they put the pieces of the puzzle together , Hannah and Bailey realise that they didn’t know Owen at all. Thanks to Serpents Tail, Viper Books and NetGalley for my advanced copy of this book to read. Add it to your TBR now

THIS IS WHAT I WANT FROM ROMANTASY!!!! Listen I loved quicksilver but somehow this was even better?!!!! The characters, the plot, the world, the romance EVERYTHING JUST LEVELED UP!!!! I’m reeling I tried to savor this but simply couldn’t I INHALED THIS! I don’t want to spoil anything so I won’t go into to too much detail but that ENDING?!! Guys I had to reread that last chapter three times to understand the significance of it fully and I’m not gonna lie I still have so many questions because WTF?!!!! But I will say I was expecting emotional turmoil and I’m happy to report that was not at all the case. The ending was PHENOMENAL and I was so stressed the last 10% but I’m so happy it didn’t leave on a devastating cliffhanger. Like I need book 3 but emotionally I’m satisfied and chillin. KINGFISHER GUYSSSSSS NOO. No no no no. I can’t. Being in this man’s head had me ready to combust every other page. His mouth. His love and devotion to Saeris. Guys no. The spice?!!! There’s a reason why he’s one of my favorite fictional men. I will never recover. Like I’m still sweating. And speaking of him and Saeris THEIR ROMANCE IN THIS?!!!! Immaculate. Chefs kiss. No notes. Perfection. I love them. This is fated mates done RIGHT!! Oh and don’t even get me started on Saeris I’m obsessed with her as an FMC she is such a baddie and I loved watching her come into her power and grow and let down her walls with Fisher. She was iconic in this. The found family and cast of characters in this is one of the reasons I’m so attached to this series. They are everything to me. I NEED A CARRION BOOK MORE THAN I NEED AIR!!! Him and Fisher were everything to me in this, their banter and relationship no I love them I couldn’t stop laughing. Also Tal……. Bye I also need a book from him I’m in love with that man. I feel like so much happened but the pacing was perfect and I wouldn’t change a thing. That reveal at the end that I won’t mention but if you know you know… IM SCREAMING IM OBSESSED ITS PERFECT!!!! “I’d spend the fortunes of the universe to protect you. I’d drain the seas dry. Fell every tree. I would sacrifice the sun from the fucking sky and surrender the stars, too, if I could. But those things aren’t mine to give. All I have is my life. It isn’t much, but I’d spend it and consider the price small if it meant keeping you safe.” “I had no idea what you would mean to me. I had no idea what I would do to keep you safe. When I close my eyes, you are all I fucking see, Saeris Fane. I could be dead in the ground five thousand years and the frosts could have taken my bones, and still no other male will ever have loved another female the way that I love you.”

…..How to come undone… This was not ‘just a book’, this was literally a portal to another realm. P.S. can Carrion please get his own book!? He was beyond hilarious. FULL RTF!

4.5🌟 I’ve seen so many mixed reviews about this sequel and I completely understand the criticism, however I personally really enjoyed this! Not as much as Quicksilver, but still I had a great time. I loved Carrions Character development, the glimpses of court politics we got in the vampire court, Saeris power developing, the revelations we got throughout this etc. etc. I wish we could’ve had Kingfisher and Saeris together more because it seemed like we only got to see them for spicy scenes and then they were immediately separated again. But guys I’m beyond excited for the next/final instalment!!

I've managed to process and organize my thoughts after screaming internally for a day. Callie Hart didn't disappoint, and she delivered a strong and thrilling follow-up to Quicksilver. It's such an amazing feeling to step into the sprawling world of Yvelia once again. I loved how this book balanced plot, action with new characters. And Kingfisher's name was finally revealed! (Shall not reveal any spoilers) He gave me whiplash by how tender and sweet he was to Saeris for a moment, and then the next second, those filthy words that spewed from his mouth 🤣 He was deliciously wicked and thoroughly devoted. And he re-introduced Saeris to all seven gods once again as promised. I know I was complaining about the lack of Renfis, Everlayne and Lorreth in Brimstone. But I'm so glad we got more of Tal and especially Carrion. I can't wait to witness his growth, magic and journey in the next book. The dynamics in Fisher and Saeris' relationship has also shifted to a more serious tone. And I DID NOT anticipate that plot twist at the end. Wow, it was quite shocking to be honest. I can't wait to read how Saeris, Fisher and Carrion can topple and destroy Madra and Belikon. Fisher, unleash your wrath, shadows and Nimerelle upon them. A well-deserved 5 ⭐️. If you're not convinced, refer to my favourite annotations below. 💫 🦅 “Don’t you know? There isn’t much I wouldn’t sacrifice to make you happy, Osha. A little healing magic is the least of it.” 💫 🦅 I wanted to hold her; the fact that she wasn’t in my arms right now felt like the greatest injustice that had ever been inflicted upon me. There was no breathing my way past it. 💫 🦅 I could be dead in the ground five thousand years and the frosts could have taken my bones, and still no other male will ever have loved another female the way that I love you.” 💫 🦅 “I’d spend the fortunes of the universe to protect you. I’d drain the seas dry. Fell every tree. I would sacrifice the sun from the fucking sky and surrender the stars, too, if I could. But those things aren’t mine to give. All I have is my life. It isn’t much, but I’d spend it and consider the price small if it meant keeping you safe.” 💫 🦅 “I shouldn’t tell you this, since you seem blissfully unaware of the power you hold over me, but… I will give you whatever you want, Saeris Fane. Always. No matter what it costs me.”

HEY WHAT THE FUCK KNUCKLES WAS THAT CLIFFY OH MY GOD

⭐️ 5/5 🌶 3/5 (Fisher's mouth gets it's own pepper) 🎧 5/5 Cliffhanger: 10/10 (Excuse me???) I, like a lot of people, have been waiting for this book for what feels like forever and it did not disappoint! I had the best time reading this. We get a lot of insight into Kingfisher from his POV and that alone levels this series up. The dynamics between the characters evolve in the best way. Normally when the main couple spends significant time apart in a Romantacy it can feel frustrating but this is the opposite. The road trip between Kingfisher and Carrion is everything you think it would be and more. They have such a great push and pull. Maybe more of a push and push since Carrion pushes Kingfisher's buttons and Kingfisher would like to push Carrion off a cliff. 😂 Their reluctant buddy cop energy is everything! Getting to see Saeris come into her warrior era was a blast! Y'all will learn to stop playing with her especially about her man. Her relationship with all the secondary characters including Tal and Hayden are so vital to her growth. I swear I want all them all to get their own book. There were a lot great reveals that had my jaw on the floor. And that cliffhanger! Because wdym? Now I feel like I need to reread both books to really understand the full picture. If you haven't started this series yet, what are you waiting for? I pray FOMO finds and blesses you so we can all suffer together until book 3!

Ya this was infinity stars for me! Like wtf!? What am I suppose to do now Callie!? 😩 this was so darn good! Kingfisher & Carrion were the highlight for me in this book like the bromance between them was perfection and I was eating up every Carrion moment as he kept me giggling and laughing. And Kingfisher.. this man 😮‍💨 the mouth on him in this book was chefs kiss! Callie knew what she was doing to us in this book! She really showed how much Kingfisher is on his knees for Saeris and the love they have for each other just really shows in book 2. It ached your heart and had you gasping that makes you want more from them! From the beginning to end I was hooked and I still can’t believe this ended the way it did like what!? What am I supposed to do now!? Absolutely diabolical and one of the best Romantasy I have read this year 🫶🏼

This is everything I want from a romantasy. Honestly, I have no idea how I went from hating the first book to rereading it and then completely falling in love with this one. I get the criticisms—truly—but something just clicked for me with this story, and I can’t even explain why. I was absolutely immersed in this world. I’m obsessed with the different characters, the found family vibes, all of it. And the character development in this book? So good. Fisher and Saeris have my heart 🥹 I would include quotes but everything that came out of Fisher’s mouth 😮‍💨 Carrion & The Fox 🦊 ❤️ Brimstone is a dark, vivid fantasy about the cost of power, the possibility of redemption, and the strength of love. At its heart, it’s a story of transformation—of people, relationships, and entire kingdoms. Saeris’s rise from human to Queen mirrors Fisher’s own journey toward self-acceptance and freedom. The book explores trauma, leadership, forgiveness, and how magic can be both a blessing and a danger. The spreading rot—literal and symbolic—shows how corruption grows when hope fades, and how healing needs courage and community. With its prophecies, foreshadowing, and layered plot, Brimstone pushes readers to consider fate versus free will. In the end, Brimstone is about chosen family, holding onto hope, and believing that even in a brutal world, redemption is still possible. ✨✨✨🌶️🌶️

Now, waiting for book 3 😩 Fav character: Hazrax 🖤 Fav scene: the last one! OMG that ending! ❤️‍🔥🔥🐉

Archer and Onyx need to be protected at all costs, but I digress. One of the biggest standouts to me was the magic displayed in this book and how the writing portrays such immersive and vivid scenes. The emotion was powerful as well—I felt like I was on the verge of tears (happy & sad) a lot of the time. The romance had me swooooning, and it was very spicy... but you can feel Saeris and Fisher’s soul-deep connection radiating off the page, especially as they fall more in love with each other. I'll never get sick of them referring to each other as 'my mate'. 🥹 “He could handle all the bullshit and the complications that came with loving me. He knew me. Saw me. Was capable of holding the both of us together if it all became too much. It was safe to love him back because, no matter what, he was never going to let me fall.” The main plot objective introduced at the beginning shifted to serve as an underlying drive for the character-based events until the last 30%, with the majority of the book more focused on Saeris and Fisher's growing bond, and the trials and lessons Saeris had to experience to further develop her understanding of this world, magic and players, and ultimately prepare herself for what's to come. I would say Carrion and Fisher's relationship development was significant too, which was hilarious and heartwarming. I was so looking forward to those two interacting more, and I was not disappointed. Saeris's growth as a character and magic wielder was definitely my favourite part. I was stunned by the detail and layers involved in uncovering and using her powers. We got to see more depth to Carrion, which was amazing, looking past the cheeky, silly guy and getting a glimpse of the rawness underneath. I feel like Fisher's whole background is just suffering and loss, which only makes me more worried for him, hoping he doesn't have to go through any more of it! And I knew he was powerful, but what he displayed in this book confirmed that tenfold. I wanted more Lorreth and Ren though. Those guys just light up the page whenever they're around. The revelation about Madra and Zilvaren was insane, and the ending had me absolutely gagged. 😳 The culmination of everything that led up to it was incredible. Though we learnt a lot more about the world and magic in this instalment, I still have so many unanswered questions! I highlighted the absolute shit out of this, as I know Callie loves her easter eggs, and I'm already nervous for the next book. - I’m so anxious but so here for the Fisher/Carrion banter 🙂‍↕️

this had similar pitfalls that book 1 had for me, but slightly fewer. And overall it felt better plotted, paced, and developed. And most importantly I had an absolute BLAST reading this. I guess I'm not the Brightest Spark (copyright pending) but I'm having a dang good time.

People complained about the Kingfisher name in the first book. Which fair, cause I hated it too. Besides, it really is awful. I don’t understand why anyone wouldn’t. But people need to complain about fucking everything, because apparently now, his real name isn’t good enough for people either. His real name is such a non issue, it’s like, go touch some grass to actually have something to do. There are books out there where characters have awful names, and no one mentions anything, because hello, it’s just a name. Now the name Kingfisher is an exception, because it’s KINGFISHER. But his true name isn’t completely weird, or ugly or anything. And yet people are all «ah I’m getting the ick». The ending was the perfect cliffhanger. It was enticing enough to keep my attention, but not horrific enough to actually have the opposite effect and make me not want to pick up the next book. Sometimes if the main characters are really in trouble. As in, is about to be tortured at the beginning of the next book trouble. And I have to wait a long time for the next book to come out, a hollow feeling will settle in my stomach. And by the time the next book comes out, that feeling will be the only thing I associate the books with, and I won’t want to read it at all. Yeah. I’m complicated. Now, there will be some spoilers. The plot was followed throughout the entire book, and I really liked the pace of the book. A few times there would be drawn out intimate scenes where I kind of wanted to skip ahead, but at the same time I was afraid to miss something important. My biggest issue with those scenes is that they didn’t really have a purpose. I’m used to scenes like this in romance books, but it isn’t something I crave in fantasy. One long smut scene is enough for me. The world stayed true to the whole Alchemical aspect which I was grateful for. I though maybe now that she’s both Fae and Vampire the story would lean more into the typical magic we meet in a lot of other fantasy books. Instead her being an alchemist was more relevant now than ever, and it seems like it will play a huge part in everything to do with The Rot spreading across the land. I was curious about how we would see Saeris step into her role as queen, and I loved how she didn’t know what she was doing, but managed to appear strong when it mattered. She never felt overconfident or prideful, but not naive and helpless either. Even though there weren’t a lot I really liked the connections she made with some of the people from the Vampire court. Mostly Taladaius and The Hazrax. I wanted her to get close to Taladaius just because I liked him from Quicksilver. And even though they aren’t a hundred percent as close as I want, I think they will grow to be closer friends. At least I hope they will. I think he needs a friend like her. The Hazrax I’m simply intrigued by. It doesn’t seem like a friend, but not an enemy either. I think it’s helping, maybe out of some goodness. But then Saeris will make a comment about how it’s mocking her. But I’m leaning more towards liking it rather than being concerned about it’s motives. Saeris’ relationship with Khydan - which yes, I will be calling him that rather than Kingfisher now - was a complete one eighty from when they first met each other. In some ways I absolutely loved it, especially the love he so openly showed her. In other ways he spent a lot of time talking about everything he would do for her in order to show us how deep his love ran. It would have been enough to just show instead of telling. Because it was shown. One huge declaration would have more than sufficed. I love all the side characters that we met in the first book. Lorreth is probably my favourite, but I feel like I know him slightly better. But I think I might love Foley even more depending on what we see of him in the next book. I just loved his background and complexity. I hate that witch. What was her name? Iseabail. In the beginning I thought we would see her and Lorreth have a little enemies to lovers story going on. And maybe that’s still in the cards, but the difference is I no longer like her. Just the whole ordeal with turning the vampire court back to what they were, and deceiving not only Saeris and Khydan, but also Taladaius who were helping her with the plan. I don’t necessarily hate that she did it. It was just her whole attitude around it. She was so confident and refused to apologise even though Saeris could have been killed immediately, and Taladaius almost died and a gate to hell or something was almost opened. But she had also lied to her fellow witches and made them believe the Vampire court had been willing. When really she used black magic which they forbid. And when Khydan wanted to send her back to them because he had figured that part out, and wanted her dead for endangering Saeris she was suddenly panicking. Served her right. I don’t have to say anything about Onyx rigjt? He is a sweetheart and thank god! I won’t say anything else about him. But just, thank god, honestly. I love Carrion. Nothing has changed about that from book one. He is really funny, but in a very subtle way, even though it comes across as the opposite…. It doesn’t feel over the top I guess. It’s just who he is, and it’s impossible not to love him. As for Hayden. I don’t really like Saeris’ brother. He has potential to be sure, but I just don’t think he’s a good brother. I was totally here for the absolute smack down she gave him. But still. She spent a lot of time worrying about him and all that time he was thinking she was traitor and never spoke up for her in Zilvaren when people were cursing her name after she almost died at the beginning of book one. Even her old mentor, the old guy took several beatings defending her. But no. Her brother just stood by. Prick. On a last note: Why did Saeris say Lorreth was with Carrion training when Carrion was in Zilvaren with Khydan at the time? This wasn’t her lying to someone. She mentioned it in her inner monologue, which leads me to believe it’s an editing error. I’m a little disappointed by this, because the first book made similar mistakes, and I would have thought, given that the author is now traditionally published, mistakes like this would be caught and fixed. And also. The names of literary everything and everyone in this book is making me sweat. It just sounds like jumble in my head whenever I come across any and all names! It really is a problem! Overall I really loved this book, and I’m itching to read the next one.

The older Stephen King gets the better his stories are. Here we have 12 outstanding pieces of fiction, shorter and longer ones. His characters often are old, near death, they look back on a long life full of experience and everyday horrors. You'll meet a man who dreamed of a dead body and found her in reality. An obsessed cop tries to prove he's the murderer. Then we meet Tad's father Frank again after so many years (do you remember King's Cujo?). Or we have The Answer Man. Dreams can be dangerous as we learn in the Mad Scientist story. Is this the right stuff for younger readers? Well, I have my doubts as whole lives pass by in most of the tales. The older you are the more you will like the stories offered here. Stephen King is on top of his game here. If you think one of the longer tales is over he surprises the reader with yet another twist. What can I say as a lifelong Stephen King reader since the 80s? One of his very best story collections. A true highlight. Even though a massive tome, it could have been longer is the only thing I can add to the title. Very impressive. Hard to beat highlight of the year!

Two Talented Bastids - 4⭐ The Fifth Step - 3⭐ Willie the Weirdo - 4⭐ Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream - 5⭐ Finn - 3.5⭐ On Slide In Road - 4.5⭐ Red Screen - 4⭐ The Turbulence Expert - 4⭐ Laurie - 3.5⭐ Rattlesnakes - 4.5⭐ The Dreamers - 5⭐ The Answer Man 4.5⭐ This was an excellent collection! Overall I am going to rate it five stars due to how much I enjoyed my favourites. The stories that I rated 3 stars were still enjoyable and they tended to be the shorter stories in the collection. My absolute favourite was Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream, which at around 150 pages is the longest in this collection. I would have been happy to pay the price of this book just for that story alone! I think Constant Readers will really enjoy this collection, the best he has done in years! I alternated between reading and listening to the audiobook and really enjoyed the narration by Will Patton and Stephen King. For the story Laurie, I listened and read at the same time and noticed that a lot of the words and phrases were different in the narration to the book in print, some sentences were missed out, some different ones added in. It was quite frequent, on almost every page of the story. I only did that with the one story, so not sure if it is the same for the rest of the book.

Stephen King really “nailed” it this time, straight into the coffin lid. As a huge fan of King’s short story collections, You Like It Darker might just be my new favorite. With twelve tales that creep under your skin and linger in the shadows of your mind, King delivers exactly what he promises: the darker side of life, both literally and metaphorically. Each story feels iconic, balancing terror, tragedy, and King’s signature surprises. My absolute favorite was "Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream", talk about a nightmare you don’t want to wake up from. One brief psychic vision turns dozens of lives upside down, especially poor Danny’s. It’s haunting in the best way, showing King’s unmatched ability to blend fate and catastrophe. The twists kept me guessing, and the ending stuck with me like a shadow at midnight. Close behind was "Rattlesnakes", a real “fang-tastic” sequel to Cujo. The return to that chilling universe had my heart racing. King proves that sometimes the past has more bite than we expect, especially when an unexpected inheritance comes with venomous strings attached. It was a brilliant mix of nostalgia and new terror, with that slow build dread King does so well. Other standout stories include "Two Talented Bastids," which peels back the layers of a long-hidden secret, and "The Dreamers," where exploring unknown corners of the universe might be a worse fate than staying home. And don’t sleep on "The Answer Man", or do, but don’t expect sweet dreams. It asks big questions about luck, fate, and whether knowing your future is a gift or a curse. King’s afterword says it best: “You like it darker? Fine, so do I.” And honestly, so do I, especially when it’s this good. This collection hits all the right notes: eerie, thought-provoking, and absolutely unputdownable. For fans of King’s short fiction, You Like It Darker is a must read. After all, when it comes to short stories, King is still the king. 👑👑👑👑👑- 5 out of 5 crowns, long live the King of Horror.

Initial Thoughts This is going to make me unpopular, but I hate those geeky labels that Stephen King fans come out with. Like 'constant reader.' But the funny thing is, I am without doubt one of those constant readers. In a two year span I read pretty much all his books. And what a glorious two years it was! A lot of King's books are absolute bangers, while some are just really good. But the guy writes at such a high level and in such an effortless way that even the ones that don't quite hit the mark are still a worthwhile read. But here's the thing you guys. Recently King has been branching off into areas I haven't been in a rush to read about. In fact I haven't even read his last two outings. Fairy Tale just didn't sound like my type of story and Holly, as well as being one of my least favourite characters of his, was way too focused on that virus that caused such a meltdown in 2020. Don't get me wrong, if I'd have heard reports that these two were must reads then I wouldn't have been able to resist. But that's just not the case. Maybe I'm just not the constant reader I thought I was. So it was with great relief that I discovered he was making a return to his dark and nasty routes with some spine chilling suspense and a little dash of horror. That's the horror that made him such a star in the eighties. And I, for one, am peeing my pants at the prospect of getting my gruby mits all over it. Believe you me, if it was a choice between this and Margot Robbie I'm choosing the book all day long. Plus, I'm a huge fan of these short story collections. Twelve stories makes up the book, with one of the longest being about ninety pages. So bring it on. Anyway, enough of the chit chat. It's time for you, me and the King to get acquainted. Let's go! The Stories Two Talented Bastids 4.25 ⭐'s - You Like it Darker gets off to a bang with a pretty fantastic tale of the son of a famous writer who has recently passed away. While digging through his office he discovers a document detailing the secret behind his father's success and how he went from a landfill owner to a world famous author. It centres around a hunting trip in the local woods and has strong vibes to another King novel, which I won't mention. But dare I say this one does it slightly better. The Fifth Step 4 ⭐'s - If the first entry wasn't exactly dark, this one certainly is as Stevie boy cranks it up a level. We have a random meeting on a park bench between an older gent, Harold Jamieson, and a recovering alcoholic. The younger man is working his way through the AA program, and you guessed it...he's on the fifth step. This one he can't do on his own and he needs help. And when Harold eventually agrees to help things are looking peachy. But with this being a Stephen King story, we'll...I'm saying no more about it. Willie the Wierdo 3.75 ⭐'s - This one felt very similar to a story from Skeleton Crew, not saying which one that is either. I'm evil like that. Not one to give the game away. Certainly not intentionally anyway. A ten year old boy, who's a bit of a weirdo...and funnily enough called Willie, is obsessed with his grandfather's war stories. Bloody, violent and a touch disturbing, who can really blame the young lad. We've all been there. The rest of the family thinks he's a bit of a misfit. Makes them feel a touch uncomfortable. But not grandpa. He sees something special in Willie. And you're going to find out exactly what that is. A bit like Danny De Vito, this one's a touch on the short side. But what's there is pretty decent with an air of suspense. Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream 5+ ⭐'s - The absolute star of the show. This one is worth the price of admission alone. It just has everything I look for in a King story. Suspense, great characters, a little bit of the supernatural and a touch of emotion all wrapped up in a gripping tale. Yeah, I liked it quite a bit. So what's this one about? Guess what? It starts with Danny Coughlin having a bad dream. One that shows him a location that's going to send him on a wild journey. He's your average working man, but his life is going to get anything but average. I honestly want to tell you what happens in this one, because it's so f'in good. But I won't, so pop along a read it right now! Finn 3.75 ⭐'s - I remember this one originally appeared on something called Scribd. But having absolutely no idea what that is I never got round to reading it. So believe you me, I was chuffed to see it appear in this collection. It's about a ridiculously unlucky teenager called Finn, who is on his way home when he predictably lands himself bang in trouble. Talk about wrong place, wrong time! There's a lot of people who say King doesn't know how to finish a story, and to be honest, sometimes that's true. I guess it comes with his style of not beginning with the end in mind and just seeing where the story takes him. Like here for instance. It did loose it's way a bit toward the end and fizzled out. However I loved the idea for this character and would love to see him in a feature novel. Rather than another Holly Gibney yarn. Another one of those planned apparently...bugger! On Slide Inn Road 4.25 ⭐'s - This one was really good and for me delivered on the darker part of the books title. Grandpa's family is driving to Derry, Maine, to visit his sister, when they take a detour down "Slide Inn Road." With this being a horror story they should have known better. We all know how these detours end up...badly. Grandpa is foul mouthed, not politically correct and a giant pain in the ass as far as his son is concerned. But boy are they happy to have him along for the ride. A good reminder not to discount the elderly simply because they seem out of touch. Red Screen 4 ⭐' s- This one is brief and a little bit on the vague side...but that doesn't put me off and I ended up really liking it. It follows a detective who's been having marriage trouble. And he's talking to a prisoner who confessed to killing his wife. But the reason is shocking! Could it be true? Guess you're going to find out. It's short but pretty intense. A bit like a night with yours truly. At least that's what I like to tell myself. The Turbulence Expert 3 ⭐'s - Probably my least favourite of the bunch. I'm not going to lie, it's a great idea. But it just fell a little bit flat. It starts with a guy getting a mysterious phone call about a job he wants no part of but is railroaded into taking. He ends up taking a flight, and guess what? There's going to be some turbulence. This one definitely could have done with being expanded on. I finished with the feeling of "is that it?" A crying shame because the potential was definitely there. Laurie 3.75 ⭐'s - More sentimental than dark, which isn't usually my cup of tea. But it was a well written and fairly enjoyable yarn. It chronicles an aging widower, who receives a new canine companion when his sister thinks it's the perfect antidote for his loneliness. At first he's far from impressed but a reluctant bond begins to form that blossoms into a heart warming friendship. For those of you that have hearts anyway. It's a nice story, but I'm not here for the nice stories. Plus I'm not a huge fan of dogs like everyone else seems to be. Including Stephen King. Which is why this story is included. Thats not saying I didn't enjoy it. But it certainly didn't blow my socks off. Or even my shoes for that matter. Rattlesnake 4 ⭐'s - This one's a sequel to another classic King story. Should I tell you what it is? I'll give you a clue and say it was one of those set in his fictional town of Castle Rock. This one isn't though and takes place in Florida. We follow Vic, who is looking to move on from past trouble while looking after an old friend's condo. It's set in 2020 and of course everything is in lockdown. The place is like a ghost town. But despite this Vic meets Allie Bell, a haunted woman who lives nearby. She has a bizarre habit involving the empty pram she pushes about. One that's going to get hold of Vic's life. It's tinged with sadness, with grief playing a big role. I'd have almost certainly scored it a little higher if it weren't for King's obsession with Covid running away with itself and distracting me from the main story at times. The Dreamers 5 ⭐'s - This was a goody. One of the darkest and most disturbing in the collection, with some fantastic imagery. A Vietnam veteran answers a job advertisement from the local rag involving conducting experiments with an affluent scientist. And what exactly are these experiments? Are you sure you really want to know? The vet soon learns that there are some corners of the universe best left unexplored as things are about to get a touch terrifying. This one could have been plucked straight out of the brain of HP Lovecraft. I loved it. The Answer Man 5 ⭐'s - So this collection finishes strongly with two bangers. Going out on a high is always a good idea. But where The Dreamers had you by the throat this one pulls at the heart strings just a little bit and really gets you thinking. A lawyer finds himself at a number of crossroads in his life, and just at those very moments a strange guy shows up to answer any questions he may have. And he has some big ones. But are you better not knowing some things? It's filled with tragedy, while still having a sense of hope. Can a life still have meaning when awful events come about? It's a fantastic story and a perfect way to end the collection. The Writing It's Stephen King. Of course the writing is bloody excellent. It's just so bloody effortless, while perfectly painting the picture my little brain needed to visualise these excellent stories. Honestly, this guy doesn't get enough credit amongst those snooty expert critics for how good he really is. But I digress. I could literally go on all day about it, but I've already talked enough. And my fingers are sore from all this typing. Final Thoughts Honestly, my reading performance has been absolutely diabolical in 2024. You know how it is when you have a lot of stuff going on with work and the family? Nothing negative, just not having a lot of free time to site down and read a good book. But I found myself making time for You Like it Darker. It was so bloody good. Best book I've read this year? Absolutely no doubt in my mind. It reminded me why I'm such a big fan of the King. It really is a sumptuous collection of short stories from one of the masters of horror and short fiction. Did you really expect anything else? Yes it does get dark at times, but not in a full on, balls to the wall way. It's certainly nowhere near the grimmest he's written. I'd go Pet Semetary for that. But it fully delivered on the suspense and fantastically written characters I was looking for. For me it contains some of King's best short stories. All of them are good but some are fantastic. Absolute belters. You'd be a fool to pass this one up. So you know what to do. In fact, why aren't you in that book shop right now? Thanks for read and....cheers!

I've been a Stephen King fan for a long, long time & although I haven't enjoyed much of his recent work I found You Like It Darker to be one of the best things he's written in years. These twelve short stories (some of them are quite long!) open with the superb Two Talented Bastids, which is a wonderful mix of small town life & science fiction. I won't go over each story here, as I'm sure my fellow readers will have already done this & far better than I could ever manage. All I will say is that there is one weak story in this collection, while the rest of them are nothing short of excellent. This really is old school writing from Stephen King, with excellent characterisation & tales that you can completely absorb yourself in. For me reading these King stories was an absolute joy....just like the old days!

12/5/2024 addendum: Winner of the 2024 Goodreads Choice Award for Best Horror I have found, as I get older, that what I found scary in my childhood is not what I find scary in my 50s. I realize that this is simply a part of maturity and aging. This is not to say that childhood fears ever go away. They simply change. Stephen King’s latest book of short stories, “You Like It Darker”, illustrates this point wonderfully. King’s early books of stories (“Night Shift”, “Skeleton Crew”, “Nightmares and Dreamscapes”) were exciting exercises in horror: things that lurk under beds, shapes in the shadows, haunted objects, creatures that have no right to exist in real life. Most of the stories were the literary equivalent of cinematic jump scares. It’s the cat leaping out of a closet. It’s the figure rising from behind the couch as the babysitter blithely watches TV. It’s the (insert here: rabid dog/possessed car/killer washing machine) that the hero must confront in the end. And, as anybody who loves horror movies knows, jump scares are great. But they aren’t very fulfilling. They get the blood flowing, sure, but they don’t linger in the subconscious the way true horror does. True horror is often subtle. It’s often more nuanced. It sneaks up on you, like old age. The stories in “You Like it Darker” are like that. Take, for example, “Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream”, the book’s longest (let’s be honest: this is definitely more of a novella than a short, but whatevs) and perhaps best story. In this story, Danny, an ordinary man, has an extraordinary psychic flash—-his first and only. He has a vision of a dead body and where it is buried. He decides to do the right thing and takes the info to the police. It turns out to be completely accurate. Unfortunately, the police now consider him the prime suspect. One of the detectives becomes obsessive in his quest to find evidence to convict Danny, beyond all reason. Now, Danny’s good samaritan deed is biting him in the ass as the psychotic detective slowly but surely destroys his life. I’ll be honest: if I had read this story thirty years ago, I probably wouldn’t have liked it. There is nothing really supernatural or scary about the story, other than the psychic flash, and that happens in the very beginning. It’s basically a noir thriller about an innocent guy being pursued by a psycho, who happens to be a cop. But I wasn’t really smart thirty years ago. Or, rather, my 20-something-year-old mind hadn’t fully developed. I was interested in self-gratification and the NOW. You don’t fully develop a sense of empathy and a worry for the future until you’re about my age. Hell, some people never develop it. Danny’s story is terrifying—-moreso at age 50 than 20-something—-because it works on the adult fears of aging: what have I done with my life? What kind of legacy am I leaving my kids? How do I know that what I’m doing is the right thing? You know: stuff a 20-something-year-old doesn’t give two shits about. And King tackles these themes in several stories throughout the collection. Standouts: “Laurie”: in which a widower who has given up on life finds hope in a new puppy. “On Slide Inn Road”: in which a disastrous family road trip is saved by the quick thinking of the only member of the family that nobody would have ever expected to be heroic—-grandpa. “Rattlesnakes”: a sequel to “Cujo”, in which the father who lost his son so many years ago to a rabid dog, is forced to deal with the ghosts of two other dead children who have latched on to his loneliness. Don’t get me wrong: I loved the other stories in this collection, too. And King still does a great job with those jump scares. But it’s clear that King’s fears have turned away from the childish fears of youth to the more nuanced and dread-filled horrors of those of us who worry less and less about the minor scares in life and more about the kind of world we’re leaving for our children.

BookTube channel with my awesome brother, Ed - The Brothers Gwynne My personal BookTube channel - William Gwynne The more King the better, so I dived into his latest release, You Like It Darker! It delivers on its title.... This is a fantastic short story collection. Stephen King still has it, and he demonstrates that seemingly with ease. His skill at crafting character and tension is just wonderful, from terrifying people who could be real in Willie the Weirdo, to exploring the supernatural with Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream, there is such an array of intriguing and engaging stories. There was only one that did not click with me, whilst all the rest were so enjoyable in different ways. Short story collections are perfect for dipping into when you have time, or when you want a little break from longer stories, and in You Like it Darker, King gives quality aplenty that you can dive into. 4.5/5 STARS

Perhaps one of the most difficult things a writer faces when writing is not knowing whether the final product will get to their audience and achieve the desired outcome on it. Being a great fan of SK's books, I feel this new short stories book really fulfilled what was expected from it. It made me imagine, smile, fear, empathize, feel sad...and more. It should be true that the first one to convince is oneself, the job of a writer is tough, even more so when what's been written is a work of fiction. But even if it's a work of fiction, it should all feel plausible by containing elements of true. A good writer must do their homework by doing research on what they are writing about so that when the book gets to their readers they can get to believe what their author has written for them. This is the first book on short stories I've read this year, and I really loved it. Throughout 12 stories SK covers a diverse series of topics. The ones I loved most were - Two Talented Bastids - Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream - Laurie - Rattlesnakes (Super fave) - The Dreamers...and finally... - The Answer Man Rattlesnakes has been by far my most favorite story as it incorporates Vic Trenton 40 or so years later. In the past it was Donna (his wife) and Tad (his son) who lived such an ordeal when attacked by a rabid St. Bernard (Cujo). It is now his turn to face some horror of his own. Will he defeat whatever is coming his way? But what about the other stories? Well, if you're really even a little interested, I'll let you be the judge to it by allowing you to read it and decide by yourself. In my opinion SK did a superb job and left me with the feeling of having read one of the best books this year (already on my favorites list).

Audiobook (20+ hours) narrated by Will Patton and the author, Stephen King Will Patton knocks this one out of the park! I wasn't expecting King to narrate more than the afterword. Just starting The Turbulence Expert and he narrates this one. Surprisingly there's a bit of a fuzzy type or grainy texture background noise. Not sure that explains it correctly, but it isn't as pin drop clear as Will's narrated stories. King also narrates Laurie, although the audio for this narration is pin drop clear. Both stories that King narrates had been previously published and released on audio, narrated by King. I suspect that these narrations were dropped in, rather than re-recorded. All other stories in this compilation are narrated by Will. The narration is fantastic! I highly recommend going with the audiobook for this read or pick up both if you like to follow along in print. Narration and audio are high quality, unless otherwise noted there are no distortions, erroneous noise or obvious edits. A good listening speed seems to be between 1x and 2.25x speed. Two Talented Bastids (2.5 hours) - 5 stars It seems fitting that the opening story takes place in the state of Maine. Will Patton, the narrator, may be from South Carolina, but he does a great job with the Maine accent. I'm from Boston and I believe him! The Fifth Step (21 minutes) - 5 stars Willie the Weirdo (26 minutes) - 5 stars A story about a grandson and his grandpa Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream (6+ hours) - 5 stars This story is stressful! At one point I was feeling deeply sad and anxious for Danny, at the verge of tears. Not finished with it yet. Fingers crossed. I mean it's King and all, but f... Yeah, I cannot tell you all how this one turns out, but it's pretty great. Finn (55 minutes) - 5 stars King mentions three BBC shows in this one, including Doctor Who. 5 stars for that alone! On Slide Inn Road (48 minutes) - 5 stars (I mean Yaz, so obv, right?) The rules of king include, when there's an opportunity to mention baseball, ⚾ Yaz is never a bad option! Red Screen (20 minutes) - 4 stars This is a short but not sweet, creepy vibing story, so yeah it was the last one I read before bed! The Turbulence Expert (30+ minutes) - 5 stars Was shocked to hear King's voice narrating this one! I don't mind King as a narrator, however this one's background audio isn't pin drop clear like the others. Disappointed about that. This one is an artfully descriptive flight from Boston to Sarasota. Probably don't read this one too close to any planned airline travel. It isn't pretty! Laurie (50+ minutes) - 5 stars This one is also a King narration, but is pin drop clear! I wonder if the previous story is an older recording that they decided to drop into the book rather than re-record it, since it had previously been seen in the anthology Flight or Fright. This short story was actually seen before in Elevation. I thought it sounded familiar! I had previously stated "Elevation was just OK, but Laurie was such an awesome short story. I felt the story from the moment it started to it's end. It's worth the read just for the second story." To add a bit of context, the story starts off when Beth gives her older brother, Lloyd, a puppy. Lloyd names this puppy, Laurie. Rattlesnakes (3 hours 47 minutes) - 10 out of 10! As a sequel to Cujo, this story is awesome. If you haven't read Cujo there are spoilers, however it's possible to enjoy this story without having read it's prequel. It's also possible to know the spoilers and enjoy Cujo after the fact. The enjoyment in both stories are in the journey more so than the destination. So. Much. Good. Edit (8/21/24): After reading Cujo I revisited this story, and I'm glad that I did. Cujo, as I stated in my recent review (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) was much bigger than I had remembered. The intimate personal details of the characters and how everything came together in this horrible, ugly, mess that was a rabid dog is such an incredible read. Being able to then jump ahead an entire lifetime and visit Vic Trenton. Being a witness to the obvious and significant impact that Cujo has on another life in turmoil is everything. The Dreamers (1 hour 24 minutes) - 5 stars A young Vietnam vet takes a job as a stenographer, a skill he learned from his recently deceased sister. Hold on! This one is a wild ride! The Answer Man (2+ hours) - 5 stars The last and final dark short story of King's new collection. This was good. Overall, this short story collection is, as advertised, darker. The stories are ordered perfectly, with larger and shorter stories laced together, some a bit of scare, others creep, mysterious, or a combination of. Some of the stories seemed that they had earned a pause before the next, for thoughts and reflections. Others demanded it, as the tales aftershocks or character shadows lurked and lingered until properly laid to rest with a few moments of contemplation, rumination, or perhaps a bit of celebration. Six or seven of the shorter stories were previously published, two in novels and the others in magazine publications. Constant reader, Justin Tate, did a good job notating where each story was previously published in his review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... (I don't know Justin, but felt it was proper to direct those interested to him, instead of copying his work and giving him credit. This way, perhaps you would be more likely to give him a like for the extra effort he made.) Overall this is a great piece of work by King and will be added to my favorites list, as I intent to revisit it every so often. I especially look forward to planning a re-read of Cujo, followed by a re-read of Rattlesnakes. Recommend, with a nod towards the audiobook, as stated about Will Patton didn't play around with this one. He came to win and it shows. ==== Addendum to my review (5/23/2024): After ruminating over this collection for several hours, there's a bit more that I want to say that I really wasn't sure how to make note of, without talking about one of the big fears of humanity that we, as a society, tend to not speak out loud as it pertains to those who we care about. Stephen King, one of the few Americans born a King. A name that would later be spoken as his status as an author for his skills and talents. This man, who walks around New England, as a regular guy, donating time to local libraries and the wellness and gift of being able to read and reading to those who cannot yet, or cannot any longer; is in his seventy-sixth year of a human life. One of the things that stood out in this collection, is a shifting focus towards older characters and end of life stories. It makes sense. As we age, if we remain open, we learn so much not just about the world but about ourselves, what makes us tick, perhaps why people do what they do. For those of us who 'people watch' as an interest in similarities and differences of how people act and react, trying to understand why some embrace the realness of our flawed selves that may include past mistakes which were, perhaps embarrassingly stupid, others pretend like that never happened. So much so that some people reject those who have done the same, perhaps punishing children or calling attention in big ways to those who would 'do such a thing.' King has a gentleness of his approach to some of these 'oddities' and realities of real life, even as he lays them in front of us in a way that can grip us from within. I theorize that while some of the things that have kept him awake for decades, like his known fear of flying, the new kid on the block is become darker and more pronounced as the shadow of death creeps nearer and nearer to his doorstep. This is something that I did not want to think about. King has been on this earth, hell living in my little corner of the world, for the entirety of my existence. The thing is that he is thinking about it. He is writing about it. In You Like It Darker, King doesn't shy away from contemplating about life itself. As you read through this collection of stories, you will read different ways that people physically and mentally struggle with the last laps. I was thinking about the darkness of his thoughts in his writing the entire time I was reading this. There's a lot of past themes that show up, some of them his personal fears raw with the lingering stench of reality, that can only come from those who understand it from the inside out, the outside in, red and sore from being tossed, turned and torn apart over and over again. There's just so much in this book to peel back. A lifetime, literally. While I think if I was a nicer, gentler individual, that last sentence would ideally be my last thought on the subject. I cannot stop myself from thinking: As much as this man who has shaped parts of my world and my perception of it through reading his words. As much as I believe that people should be able to have time for themselves and not work until they have taken their last breath. My greedy self isn't done with King. I do like it darker and I want more. Side note, if Mr. King ever were to read my review (not that he would but you know in my imaginative mind), Thank you.

“The world is full of rattlesnakes. Sometimes you step on them and they don’t bite. Sometimes you step over them, and they bite anyway.” I can’t stress enough how much I adore Stephen King’s storytelling. The stories in this collection will make you want to settle into them at the end of each day. And I do mean "settle in" because many of the so-called “short” stories in this book actually could’ve been novellas. But that’s because King takes his time developing worlds that feel familiar and characters that feel real, be they the protagonist, the monster, or the one-scene side character. Throughout my experience reading this book, the stories simultaneously felt like a warm sunset and an ominous storm on the horizon. Yes, these stories are dark as the title of the book suggests, but they also carry themes of grief, obsession, human relationships, unanswered questions, mystery, and grappling with the unknown. In Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream, a man whose nightmare featuring a murdered woman turns out to be a psychic premonition, one that gets him in a world of trouble. (I was over-the-moon thrilled to discover this story was set in my home state of Kansas!) The Fifth Step opens with a man approached by an addict who claims he must share a story with a stranger as part of an AA recovery assignment (loved this one)! Two Talented Bastids begs the question of whether talent is something humankind naturally possesses or if the lucky ones are simply chosen by a supernatural fate. In Red Screen, a conspiracy theory leaves the protagonist and the reader uneasy about what to believe (this one was a personal favorite of mine). And we even get a sequel to Cujo in the story Rattlesnakes! Whether you end up loving every single story in this collection or simply find some of them to be lacking, what I know for certain is that there will be something in YOU LIKE IT DARKER that will stick with you and leave a lasting and haunting impression as King’s writing always does.

Overall, a great collection of SK stories. Not a single complaint. Two Talented Bastids -- What I thought MIGHT be a nice tie-in to Tommyknockers actually turned out to be a rather wholesome, if eerie, tale. 5/5 The Fifth Step - 4/5 Willie the Weirdo - What a creepy damn kid. 4/5 Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream - I loved every second of this. Poor Danny! This is King in top form. 5/5 Finn - I really felt sorry for this kid. Of course, the twist... 4/5 On Slide Inn Road - Old grandpa is a real hoot. Great language, ya old popcorn fart. :) 5/5 Red Screen - A nice twist on "picking". A bit of the normal and a good horrible wallop of the other. 4/5 The Turbulence Expert - 4/5 Laurie - Nothing like a little dog to lighten up your life. :) 5/5 Rattlesnakes - Wicked pram tale. Easily one of the best stories in this collection. I thought it was all kinds of cool that it carries Cujo on, so many years past that puppy's expiration date. More than anything else, though, this was one hell of a good ghost story. 5/5 The Dreamers - Oooohhh I love SK's cosmic horror stories. 5/5 The Answer Man - A good twist on a monkey paw story. And as always, the answer is in the proper question. :) 5/5

Two Talented Bastids: I loved this one about potential and talents and using what you have if you believe you can, and the end was a great reality that we all have different uses. 4 Stars The Fifth Step: a macabre ironic humor, haha 3.5 Star Willie the Weirdo: The first grandfather/grandson bonding book with a 5 star finish Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream: 5 Stars, this one was soo good and so frustrating for Danny, loved the characters in this one. Cops who go corrupt for a good cause. A man whose life gets ruined for being a good person. Finn: Finn may possibly have the worst luck of anyone. Waterboarding ensues. On Slide Inn Road: Derry Main located. Another grandfather & grandson bonding moment. Dedicated to Flannery O'Connor with similar echoes. 3 Stars Red Screen: Utter genius with aliens. 4 Stars The Turbulence Expert:For those with a healthy dose of fear when flying. 2.5 Stars Laurie:Laurie the dog, nothing new was added from when I first experienced this one at the back of Elevation. Dogs, alligators, and neighbors. 4 Stars for the end Rattlesnake: So weirdly I have never read Cujo or Duma Key, which are both referenced in this one, I need to go rectify that. I loved the paranormal creepiness that was the classic vibe of a noteworthy King tale. 4.5 Stars The Dreamers: The creepiest book in the collection. I need an entire novel or series on this concept. LOVED IT! 5 Stars The Answer Man: Who doesn't want answers in life sometimes? I wish a bit more of the "did this happen because of the Answer Man, or did the Answer Man just see the future?" vibe in the story's second half. Perfect speculative tale. 4.5 Stars Lots of great ones in this collection. just give it a read! 4.5 Stars overall.

Standing ovation. What a collection! This book contains some of his best writing in decades if you ask me. I LOVED this. Personal favorites: Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream (worth the price of admission alone) Rattlesnakes The Dreamers Two Talented Bastids The Answer Man

Probably my favorite short story collection from Mr King. Man, what a wildly varied and enjoyable ride... 4 1/2 Savored Stars

I loved this just as I expected to. Only one dud for me, Finn, much as I adore Mr King I fear he has no grasp of the Irish vernacular whatsoever, I cringed all the way through it. The other stories more than made up for it though, I loved reading more about what became of Vic Trenton, and Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream was worth it all by itself, 5 shiny stars.

Mr King has hit the ball out of the park with this collection of stories! As with most collections, there are a couple which didn't quite sate my appetite but those that did were incredible feasts for my imagination. Below I have written my rating and thoughts for each story. I've kept each as short as possible and attempted to be as vague as possible about the details of each story. Two Talented Bastids ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ A tale told in typical Stephen King style. By using the word 'typical' I mean that it's amazing. It's hard to mention many details of this story without giving spoilers, so I'll steer well clear of that. Ufo, vivid, desires, ordinary, extraordinary, Profound!! The Fifth Step ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ In this extremely short story, we follow Jamieson, a retiree during his daily walk into Central Park, where he often sits and reads a copy of the Times. Here he notices a guy who decides to sit on his bench and soon asks if Jamieson could do him a favour. Yes, again King manages to cram so much into such a short yet distinct and punchy story. I loved this so much, especially the sharp and witty conversation. Willie the Weirdo ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Yet another extremely short story which punches well over its weight. Willie is a ten-year-old, and most of his family thinks he's weird, I think he is weird, but will his curiosity and strangeness get him anywhere? An extremely snappy tale, with an interesting dynamic and plenty of obscure and dark humour. Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ My favourite story so far and one I will remember for some time, possibly one of my all-time time favourites. I love it!! This is storytelling perfection which would fit perfectly into the Hard Case Crime series of books. Danny is a regular guy, but one night he has a vivid nightmare. One that doesn't fade, one that he must go investigate. Finn ⭐️⭐️⭐️ I read this short story roughly three years ago. Back then I didn't think much of it and my opinion hasn't changed at all. In the most simple terms, this is a tale of mistaken identity. King's writing is great as usual, with a fair few humourous moments but for the most part, it didn't capture my attention. On Slide Inn Road ⭐️⭐️⭐️ I guess you could call this a road trip gone wrong. This is a tough one to rate, the story itself is okay but I've given it the benefit of the doubt just because of the witty conversation and the interactions between the different generations of the family. Red Screen ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Wilson, a detective goes to visit a newly arrested suspected murderer. This murderer has a strange explanation of why he did what he did. I really enjoyed this, it's simple and very short but somehow managed to pull me into its web. The Turbulence Expert ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ This story is simple to explain, just read the title. I found this to be yet another enjoyable and witty story, the conversation feels natural, as do the character's actions and personas. Rattlesnakes ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ This one was a bit of a slow burn. We follow Vic who has travelled to the Florida coast to get a little R&R, a place to regroup and contemplate things. He meets a lady, she's strange in one particular way, but to find out about that you'll have to read this yourself. I loved how this linked to two of King's novels and in some ways gave potential for at least one to have a future. Quality storytelling, a tale of loss, pain and guilt, with a good pinch of existential dread thrown in for good measure. The Dreamers ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ A mean broody son of a bitch. Think cosmic wonders, eldritch horrors and a mad scientist. This was such a cool little story, take a little from each of the horror greats, mix it up and this beauty is born. The Answer Man ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ This one does exactly what it says on the tin. The story of a life, of our habitual need for confirmation and most of all our loves and losses.

King is back in old form I must admit that I had my reservations about the recent novels of King, with Fairy Tale being a big dissapointment and deciding to skip Holly all together, but given my appreciation for King's shorter works (such as Full Dark, No Stars) I definitely wanted to check this one out. So here we go: Two talented bastids / ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Two ordinary men, one a writer and another an artist, both from an obscure town become suddenly famous. Like the twins that one the lottery at the same time ... The son of the writer is contacted by a journalist who wants to know what happened. Only to have to tell her that his father doesn't want to tell her. But he suspects something. What happened in the woods? He is to find out. The Fifth Step / ⭐⭐⭐⭐ A man on a bench is approached by a stranger wanting to confess his wrongdoings as part of the Alcoholics Anonymous' twelve-step program. The man listens to the stranger's admissions only to find out he is not really wanting to admit that he is not really sorry for them. Willy the weirdo / ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Another short story with an unexpected twist. A young boy and his grandfather share a unique bond. Very unique indeed! Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream / ⭐⭐⭐⭐ A man and his dream. He gets into trouble with the police. A bigger 'short story' which I liked less than the previous stories; perhaps it is the length but I lost focus in the middle of the story and the end was a bit anti-climatic, especially compared to the previous two. Finn / ⭐⭐ A boy is unlucky, very unlucky - but God rewards those who are unlucky. On Slide Inn Road / ⭐⭐⭐ A family on a wrong road and an old grandpa whose breath smells like "a small animal died in his mouth, shitting as it expired". A lot of tension in the car, but that's nothing compared with what they will experience further up on the road. Grandpa saves the day. Red Screen / ⭐⭐ Short story, about nagging wives and phones turning red The Turbulence Expert / ⭐⭐⭐ Original story about a man that saves lives on a plane. Laurie / ⭐⭐⭐⭐ A sweet story about an old man and his dog. Rattlesnakes / ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Squeak squeak squeak ... a classic horror story from the King. The Dreamers / ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Mad scientist story. The Answer Man / ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ A man meets the Answer Man, who answers all your questions and dilemma's. But there is a ctach: "Peek not through a keyhole, lest ye be fexed"

Some great shorts here. A solid installment in the King library. Great new characters and a familiar friend from the past. Not as dark as some of his earlier stories but these will stay with you for a bit. For me, Fanny Coughlin's Bad Dream and The Answer Man are my favorites. Enjoy.

A sequel to Cujo? Count me in! Another book by the mastermind. YES PLEASE

“Some of these truths are ugly, but as the poem says, scars become beauty marks when there is love.” – Stephen King Mr. King said he pulled the title from Leonard Cohen’s song “You Want It Darker.” In Cohen’s song he sings, “You want it darker? I’m ready, my lord.” Give the song a listen, if you want to set the mood for reading this book. I can’t help but imagine that King is starting to tie-up loose ends and prepare for the great ending in the sky, and it’s a bit heartbreaking. King includes several dedications throughout this collection, and he mentions his sons and his wife in the Afterword. He thanks both this editor Julie Eugley and his nephew, Jon Leonard for uncovering old stories which needed to be finished. He once again, as he has before, reveals his self-doubts about his writing. He also takes another swing at thanking his Constant Readers. He confesses that he’s happy that his storytelling has entertained others, and that makes me happy. I’ll just say that I’m grateful he’s finishing old stories and writing new ones because they are just that – entertaining! Five stars from me, not for the plots, or the themes, or the endings, but for the great storytelling and for showing the truth of the real world.

If the name Stephen King makes you think, “Too scary!” or “Way too long!”—his latest short story collection, You Like It Darker, might just change your mind. The stories range from a quick 10 pages (The Fifth Step) to a novella-sized 150 pages (Danny Coughlin’s Bad Dream). Out of the 12 tales, only a couple drift into spooky territory—and nothing that’ll have you sleeping with the lights on. What really stands out is King’s storytelling at its finest: a diverse mix of settings, characters, and situations that highlight just how wide his creative lens can go. And if you’re already a fan of King and his genre-jumping ways, don’t skip this one. You Like It Darker might just be your new favorite. ~Diana F. Find a Copy at Scottsdale Public Library

Twelve creepy, weird and brilliant short stories. I had my favourites and they tended to be the longer ones: Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream (Danny dreams that he discovers a person, murdered and buried behind a gas station, when he visits he discovers his dream is true); Rattlesnakes (a man befriends his neighbour - a slightly mad but harmless woman who pushes a stroller around with, supposedly her dead twins in it); and Slide Inn Road (a family take a wrong turn in their car and are apprehended by two men who terrorise them). Plenty here to get your teeth into and keep you up at night.

Several years ago, I began a chronological re-read of Stephen King's books and vowed not to read any of his new releases until I'd finished that project. But You Like It Darker made me break that vow, because how was I supposed to resist a sequel story to Cujo? That story, "Rattlesnakes," was my favorite in this collection, and it's a melancholy, haunting (in more ways than one) tale that I know will stick with me. Many of the stories, including "Rattlesnakes," are a meditation on growing older, looking back on a life full of joys and sorrows when you are reaching the end of it. It feels like an intensely personal perspective, so contemplative and weirdly gentle -- which I realize sounds strange for a book of horror stories but is in reality an often-overlooked trademark of King's writing. The other previously unpublished stories -- "Two Talented Bastids," "Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream," "The Dreamers," and "The Answer Man" -- were definitely the best in the collection. "Two Talented Bastids" is creepy and campy. "Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream" is, if a bit bloated, a fascinating exploration of belief in the face of extraordinary circumstances, and features an intriguing King villain. "The Dreamers" takes place on a level of the Dark Tower, I am 1000% convinced. And "The Answer Man" is a heartbreaking celebration of a life well-lived (and is also likely Tower-adjacent). And then there's "Willie the Weirdo" and "The Fifth Step," which read like a master class in how to write a perfect short horror story. You Like It Darker isn't my favorite of King's short story collections (I don't think anything will be able to unseat Night Shift for that title), but it is a phenomenal set of stories. It's incredible to me that an author as prolific as King can still give readers something new, and can still evolve as a writer, even after so many years. And yet, he always does.

Ah, Uncle Stevie, you spoil us! This collection features 12 stories, a new of which are novellas, others are short stories. I posted status updates after each one in case you want to get a glimse into what I thought about each of them. I'm not gonna give star ratings for each because I think that could influence future readers. Instead, let me say this: The first, fourth and tenth stories were novellas and definitely the gems of this collection. The others, short stories and novellas alike, were good, very good and extremely good. Not a single one was a stinker. Plus, even Uncle Stevie's worst is usually better than (almost) anything else out there. I loved that some stories gave definite nods to older works and had the vibe of some of SK's classics. Characterization has always been King's strong suit - as is showing the horror of the mundane, the "normal" and "everyday". These stories once again proved that. Creepy and highly atmospheric, sometimes with a strong dose of dark humour, sometimes full of tragedy or just warming your heart (yep, we got even that). Definitely, this indeed mostly was dark, as the title had promised. Wonderful collection / addition to my King shelf.

Every time I step into the worlds created by King I find myself whisked away into a masterfully told environment of places horrifying and strange. Loved this newest collection of stories with my favorites being "Danny Coughlin's Bad Dream," "Rattlesnakes," "The Dreamers," and "The Answer Man."

Wow! Words can't adequately describe my reaction to Amanda Gorman's poetry in Call Us What We Carry. Gorman is the youngest presidential inaugural poet in US history, and she stunned the world with her poem, The Hill We Climb, during the inauguration of President Joe Biden. The poems in her book capture the time, terror and feelings during the global pandemic (both during the Spanish Flu in 1918 and the COVID pandemic in 2020) and centuries of system racial discrimination including the tragic deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and many others. Some of the memorable poetry passages include: * Unprecedented and unpresidented * Frayed and afraid * Our souls, solitary and solemn * Alive but alone * Our scars are the brightest part of us * Isolation is its own climate * Trauma is like a season; deep and dependable * Pre-memory determines who we are as a people * Storytelling is a way that unarticulated memory becomes an art * Grief is the grenade that always goes off * The Spanish influenza did not originate in Spain. The first recorded case was in Kansas. Spain was neutral in World War I. * Ignorance is a vine that sneaks up a tree and blocks out the light * Courage must cost something, or else it is worth nothing at all * Isolation is the first step in war and pandemics * A virus separates us from people * Hate is a virus * Hate only survives when hosted in humans * Never forget that to be alone has always been a price for some and a privilege for others * Who were we beneath our mask? * Language is a life craft. Language is a life raft. Highly, highly recommend!

I remember the first time I saw Amanda Gorman. I was not alone. Anyone who watched the inauguration of President Biden probably also experienced the artful amazing gorgeous intensity of her powerful poem, “The Hill We Climb.” “…when the day comes, we step out of the shade aflame and unafraid, the new dawn blooms as we free it, for there is always light if only we’re brave enough to see it, if only we’re brave enough to be it.” I can still feel the tears flowing listening to her. There was so much to appreciate about that day and her words. So, when I saw this book on the library book shelf on my weekly saunter for reading material, I happily grabbed it. It was a delight to read her. She has depth and soul. And, gratefully this beautiful poem is also included in this book. This book is eclectic in her expression of herself. Her poetry exudes discussion on a variety of topics and even atypical formats. And, she is not your typical poet. And, perhaps that is what makes her readable, and interesting. Would I have picked up her book of poetry had I not heard her on that important day and found myself in tears listening to “The Hill We Climb?” Maybe not. But I am glad I did. As an example, she talks about a fall in one poem. “Say our feet miss a step on a stair – …Sometimes The fall Just makes Us More Ourselves.” How many times have we been in this precarious position with our bodies? Is she not having us consider these moments in our lives? I like to open myself to different genres. Learn and grow and find myself stretching my mind to consider how other people think and feel. And, this author definitely does that. And, that is why if you are on a similar reading journey, you may just find this book worth your reading experience, too.

Amanda Gorman is a genius. I have said and written here many times that I'm really not particularly fond of poetry. Maybe that was always because I hadn't seen recently poetry of the type that Ms Gorman creates. It looks at us as we are and as we might be. It is full of life and full of hope. It is beautiful.

"Whoever said we never die in our dreams Obviously has never been Black." Amanda Gorman has captivated me yet again with poems about surviving the pandemic and being Black in America. Reaching back into the history of slavery and looking to the future with despair tempered by an unlikely yet resilient hope. This collection was stunning and profoundly moving, blunt and honest, real and raw, and incredibly insightful. "It's said that ignorance is bliss. Ignorance is this: a vine that sneaks up a tree, killing not by poison, but by blocking out its light." Trigger/Content Warnings: racism, slavery, pandemic, police brutality, grief, death, violence, mass/school shootings, colonization You can watch me review this book & all of the other 2022 Goodreads Choice Awards Winners here: https://youtu.be/fFKXJ1gsZA8 You can watch me talk about all the books I read in February as I set up my reading journal here: https://youtu.be/NY7bgSmoggM You can find me on... Youtube | Instagram | TikTok You can join our book club over on Patreon... PBB Book Club

**Winner of Goodreads Choice Award for Best Poetry** Ever since I saw Amanda Gorman at the inauguration, I've been passionately moved by her. I followed her on Instagram and couldn't wait to read her book. She is classy, smart, beautiful, and talented beyond words. "Amanda Gorman, a descendant of slaves becomes the youngest poet to read at the inauguration". (an excerpt from her book) A lot of the topics are painful; the pandemic, the enduring sadness of the BLM movement. Gorman is an excellent writer and she uses words like magic. I would classify Gorman as a poetic wordsmith. I will continue to follow her journey and look forward to more amazing work from her. 5 Fabulous stars!

We needed someone to give voice, texture, and meaning to our past few indescribable years. Amanda Gorman has stepped into this much-needed space. She begins by mapping where we are. Our recent experiences cannot be accurately described as a shapeless void, but rather as a murkiness with ragged borders, one which we've had to navigate at full-speed. Gorman uses accessible everyday speech to convey the remarkable, and to reveal what is hidden. Her poetry isn't just contemporary, but achingly present, an elegy for the living. If there's such a thing as meta poetry, this is an example of it, with a self-awareness and self-referential quality rarely seen in poetry. This poetry isn't simply a conduit for people and their experiences, but as a stand-in for them. We are the poetry, and the poetry is us, when we burst out of our confines to become more than we are. In no way, are we promised that this process will not be painful. Being is static. Becoming requires action. Even generational trauma, coded into the bones of descendants, persists, not because we've failed to leave it behind, but because we've failed a fully collective remembrance. There are many mind-expanding messages in this reverberant collection, yet the one which has echoed loudest for me has been this call to claim the fullness of historical memory. There is no way forward through repressive sublimation. This is a moving, living, breathing, testament to the power of words.

Thank you so much to Penguin Random House and Viking books for my ALC of Call Us What We Carry. I was so excited with we chose this for OC Books and Brunch this month. Amanda Gorman is a fantastic poet and she narrates this book which makes it even better. This is a collection of wonderful poetry about grief, memory, hope, identity, and healing. I found it intriguing that the first half of this book was about surviving the pandemic for the past two years. The second half focuses George Floyd, race in America, and a call to action. I love that this book ends with The Hill We Climb, because this is the poem that introduced the American people to Amanda Gorman and her amazing talent. I loved hearing the audio in her own words. If you really listen, the words are so meaningful and her inflection makes it special because it’s how the book was meant to be read. I loved the theme about the importance of words and and language and how what we say and how we say it matters. ‘To tell the truth, then, is to risk / being remembered by its fiction,’ “We’ve learned that quiet isn't always peace, and the norms and notions of what ‘just’ is isn't always justice.”

“So, on this beautiful morn, we mourn & we mend. Like light, we can’t be broken, even when we bend.” I don’t know how she does it!!! Every word is beautiful and my copy is scattered with bookmarks on every other page. Ever since I heard Amanda Gorman’s inaugural poem, I wanted to see more of her poetry, and it was very much worth the wait.

Outstanding. Just like so many others, I was entranced by Gorman's poem and her reading of it at the inauguration. It was a high bar to set for this collection and she absolutely met it. I don't know that I am qualified to analyze/review poetry, so I'm just going to talk about what stood out for me. Each word in these poems feels so precisely chosen - for meaning, for pattern, for rhythm, for cadence. When you read it to yourself, you can almost hear it aloud. It's impressive to be able to craft a poem in such a way that the beauty of the language is so significant that it reads visually like an auditory experience. Since I mentioned craft - the variety of techniques and formats she used including concrete poetry - where the visual appearance of the lines matches the topic, integrating historical documents/journals into the structure of her poem and then expanding on them, integrating quotes and lyrics, and much more demonstrates an impressive mastery of the craft. Structurally, the poetry in the collection is varied, but each works perfectly for the images and message conveyed. The timeliness and timelessness of her subjects also stood out - much of the poetry in here reflects world experiences and events of the past few years, including the Pandemic and BLM. Within that exploration, though, she ties our experiences of today to the past and the future. If we had read poetry like this when I was in school, it wouldn't have taken me more than 20 years to be interested in it again.

I do not have the words in the face of Gorman’s genius. Her poetry is so on point, so honest and tender and fierce and in this moment. She captures the emotions of our pandemic grief, racial strife and political upheaval. I simply could not put this down.

I anticipated this book to be good but it greatly exceeded my expectations. It is absolutely extraordinary! As I was reading it I was making notes of some of the parts that stood out for me and I literally was making notes from every page so I've tried to pare it down a bit. Some of the poems I especially liked are: "Earth Eyes" A cry for change to save our earth. "War: What Is It Good?" Compares hate to a virus. "Survey" based on a survey from the Chicago race riots of 1919. "Fury & Faith" This is basically a plea for sanity in behavior. "The Truth in One Nation" a powerful poem about the US and what is and what could be. "Monomyth" presented as movie scenes that recap events of the past two years. I thought I would, also, include quotes of some of the lines from the poems in this review but instead I decided to just recommend reading the book because it is a work of art that you need to see for yourself.

In the future if the youths ask me what COVID was like, I’ll hand them this book.

I dived in knowing nothing about this book beforehand, and frankly I didn't have very high expectations because of contemporary poetry books written by young writers always being a disappointment with instagram poetry hastily thrown on the pages. But this book turned out to be really impressive, and I was actually shocked at how much kindess, compassion and love was poured into the words. While remembering the horrors committed by mankind, but also hoping and encouraging for a better, beautiful future. Brilliant!

My first poetry collection, this was absolutely breathtaking. And that's such an accurate work for it, because you need to read this book out loud, to breath Gorman's words into the world (I did at like 1 am, scared I'd wake up my brother lol). This is a powerful combination of various different forms of the written word, tackling Covid and healing from this difficult period in history. It's about identity and gaining strength from it, as well as striving for justice. This book is so much and it's all inspiring. I am just in love with the endless possibilities of poetry after this and will definitely try to read more this year!

I started this year with a promise to myself that I would read more books of poetry. And I have - 8 or 10. It is fitting that this review of a book of poetry is almost at the end of my year of reading. WOW. We all know that this young woman is so smart, so aware, so good with words - now she has given us an entire book of her work. She ends the book with her poem, The Hill We Climb, the poem she read at Joe Biden's inauguration as President of the United States. She never goes away from her heritage, being a young black woman in the US. She expresses concern for many causes, the poor, those damaged by Covid and the evil of Donald Trump (my term, not hers). You never get away from her very acute awareness of what is happening and where she is. There is an overriding longing for the things we miss since Covid is so damaging. And sometimes she just says something that is so brilliant. It is the nightmare, never the dream that shakes us awake. Sometimes the fall just makes us more ourselves. Grief is the grenade that always goes off. We cannot possess hope without practicing it. Themes that I saw: dying, restraint, nature, humans and pain. A wonderful book. peace, janz

Thoughtful, wise and perceptive, such insight from one so young.

Amanda Gorman established a name for herself, deservedly, with the seismic force of her inaugural poem “The Hill We Climb,” which is included as the coda to Call Us What We Carry. As her debut, full-length collection of poems, Gorman’s book exhibits her commitment to confronting America’s inequities and injustices, while she also uses her poetic vision to steer us towards a rational hopefulness for America’s potential of someday fulfilling its promise of inclusiveness and equality. Gorman has a unique ability to construct marvelous phrases and to seemingly bend the sounds of words to give them a potency that makes everyday language fresh and extraordinary. Although “The Hill We Climb” remains the paramount example of her talent and vision, her book also includes several pieces that showcase her creativity of experimenting with clever poetic styles and forms, such as when she employs her poems into the shapes of text messages, newspaper columns, famous buildings, the Earth itself, the American flag, and even a whale inspired by Melville’s Moby Dick. In its totality, Call Us What We Carry is a strong collection that keeps you gripped with eagerness to experience the immediacy Gorman’s poems, each of which reverberates with an urgency to enact change. For poetry reviews, I always feel best with allowing the poet’s voice to speak, so here are a few snippets that I think represent some of Gorman’s best from Call Us What We Carry: • From “& So”: Grief, when it goes, does so softy, Like the exit of that breath We just realized we clutched. Since the world is round, There is no way to walk away From each other, for even then We are coming back together. • From “Compass”: Lost as we feel, there is no better Compass than compassion. We find ourselves not by being The most seen, but the most seeing. • From “Alarum”: Our loss / colossal & blossomed / is never lost on us. Love the earth / like we’ve failed it. To put it plain / we have shipwrecked the earth / soiled the soil / & run the ground aground. / Listen. We are the loud toll / on this planet. / Our future needs us / alarmed. Man is a myth / in the making. • From “Pre-Memory”: Poke the scare until it speaks. This is how every memory starts. • From “Vale of the Shadow of Death or Extra! Extra! Read All About It!”: The oppressor will always say the oppressed want their overcrowded cage, cozy & comforting as it is; the master will claim that the slaves’ chains were understood, good, all right, okay—that is to say, not chains at all. • From “Back to the Past”: The closest we get to time travel Is our fears softening, Our hurts unclenching, As we become more akin To kin, as we return To who we were Before we actually were Anything or anyone— That is, when we were born unhating & unhindered, howling wetly With everything we could yet become. • From “War: What, Is It Good?”: A virus is fought inside us, While violence is fought amongst us. In both, our triumph is not in conquering others, But conquering the most destructive agents & instincts that we carry Within our mortal forms. Hate is a virus. A virus demands a body. What we mean is: Hate only survives when hosted in humans. If we give it anything, Let it be our sorrow & never our skin. • From “_ _ _ _ _ [Gated]”: Why it’s so perturbing for privileged groups to follow restrictions of place & personhood. Doing so means for once wearing the chains their power has shackled on the rest of us. It is to surrender the one difference that kept them separate & thus superior. • Also from “_ _ _ _ _ [Gated]”: Fundamentally, supremacism means doing anything to keep one’s sole conceit, Even if it means losing one’s soul. • From “America”: The fact of the matter is that our country seldom counts all who Matter. • From “Fury & Faith”: You will be told this is not a problem, Not your problem. You will be told now is not the time For change to begin, Told that we cannot win. But the point of protest isn’t winning; It’s holding fast to the promise of freedom, Even when fast victory is not promised. • From “The Hill We Climb”: And yes, we are far from polished, far from pristine. But this doesn’t mean we’re striving to form a union that is perfect. We are striving to forge our union with purpose, To compose a country committed To all cultures, colors, and characters, And conditions of man. And so we lift our gazes not To what stands between us, But what stands before us. We close the divide, Because we know to put Our future first, we must first Put our differences aside. • Also from “The Hill We Climb”: We will not be turned around Or interrupted by intimidation, Because we know our inaction and inertia Will be the inheritance of the next generation. Our blunders become our burdens. But one thing is certain: If we merge mercy with might, and might with right, Then love becomes our legacy, And change, our children’s birthright.

What an interesting time to finish this book…..um, I’m at a loss for words at the uncanny timing. Amanda is probably so upset by that man getting elected again because The Hill We Climb was a poem of optimism, kindness and unity but now it feels like a poem that got spat on, bulldozed and kicked over.…I should’ve finished this book before the election. 😭

I’ve often wondered why I didn’t read this when it first came out. However, after reading Gorman’s poetry, I feel a particular importance to her words in preparing for the next four years. I’m so grateful for her voice, especially now.

What a mind blowing beginning of a book! A mother, Lydia and her little boy, Luca hid themselves in the bathtub for not being other victims of family massacre. The contract killers/ most dangerous drug-lord’s dirtbags kept looking for them, firing their guns, calling their names. And finally they thought they were not at the house so they left the place and 16 innocent victims behind. Now mother and her son have to leave the country for staying alive because one of the powerful men is chasing them and he is determined to finish his massacre that he already started. The man, Javier Crespo Fuentes, once upon a time he was her friend. They talked about books, shared their secrets, formed a close relationship till one day Lydia’s reporter husband Sebastian wrote an article about Javier…The day the article had published their life’s direction had also traumatically changed. So now, Lydia’s husband, mother, sister and her children are dead! Only she and her son stayed alive from vengeful attack of the cartel. And now their thrilling, heartbreaking, dangerous journey begins. They race against the time, authorities and killers at the same time. So keep still at the edge of your seats and take deep breathes to calm your nerves! This book will increase your heart rates and blow your mind by making you agitated, anxious but stop squirming nervously, just keep on reading, don’t you want to know what will happen to those innocent mother and her brilliant, smart son? Let me tell you something, they say: “destination not important but the journey” but this time it works quite opposite at this book because throughout this long journey, the mother and son walked, hid, slept in different places, ran from dangerous people, jumped into the trains, put their lives in danger, met with different people who had amazing experiences and life stories. This journey makes you up all night to read more, learn more, ache more, fists clenched, eyes filled in tears. You whisper prayers slowly to wish the characters can escape from the real monsters are living in our modern world. Not only mother and son but the people they’ve met especially the sisters helped them will always stay in my heart and soul forever because they’re so realistically developed, well-build characters who have heart-wrenching stories. I think instead of the beginning of this story, author’s note part is also impressive. It summarizes all those people including me who came to this land to chase their dreams, deal with our disappointments and learn from our mistakes to try again. On the border wall of Tijuana, there is wonderful piece of graffiti. When the author feel faltered or discouraged, she clicks to her desktop and look at those words: “On this side, too, there are dreams” Everyone has different dreams but sometimes making too many sacrifices and leaving your old lives and old selves behind might be too tough and compelling for you so sometimes you just procrastinate or give up on them. This book could be dedicated to the dreamers who are brave enough to leave, who have nothing to lose, make so much sacrifices and pay so many dues to fight with everything they have and finally reach their destinations! Maybe it is too early to say that but I think this will be one of the most stunning, impressive and fascinating readings of 2020. Special thanks to Netgalley and Flatiron Book for sharing this amazing ARC COPY with me in exchange my honest review!

Ok seems like a bunch of privileged 'let me show you how woke I am' white people have decided they can speak for the Latin community. This is a work of FICTION. Google it if you don't understand. The author owes you nada. Move on. Get over yourself. Fuck off. To say that a non Latina has no right to write about Latin issues is absurd. Tell that to all of the writers of WWII fiction. Again with that word fiction. Any book that shines light on a dark subject is a good thing. Any book that gets people talking about the plight of others is a good thing. You caucasians leaving comments purporting to speak for people of color is fucking hilarious. Hypocrite much? As for your comments about Crawdads. No I haven't read it (which I stated in my review) but that doesn't make me ignorant of the fact that it was top of the bestsellers list since it's debut. Jfc go read a book. I've given my last fuck. ____________________________ Original Review: No doubt this will be THE book of 2020. The Where The Crawdads Sing book of 2020. I've never read Crawdads and I wouldn't have read American Dirt if not so kindly offered the opportunity by the publisher. This is so far from my usual genre. Give me a thriller any day. I want to feel compelled to flip the pages while balancing on the edge of my seat. I want to lose sleep because I can't put a book down, a heart racing, just one more chapter type of story. AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT I GOT WITH THIS BOOK. This book was nothing like what I was expecting and everything I could ever hope for. Cummins has written a gripping and compelling narrative that every American should read. Unfortunately, those that need this message the most will refuse this book out of spite and/or the inability to read. ☝️ If that statement offends you, then you are exactly who it is directed towards. ** Thank you Hachette Australia for an ARC in exchange for an honest review. **

4.5 stars Is this the definitive immigrant experience? I’m not naïve enough to think so. This is fiction. Were there clichés or negative stereotypes? Not that I could see. Instead, this book destroyed the stereotypes. As the author notes in her epilogue the people are not “faceless brown masses”, an often quoted phrase by the naysayers taken totally out of context – it’s an image the author says she tried (quite successfully) to dispel. The people crossing into our borders are individuals with backstories and unique reasons for coming here. The humanitarian concerns of our fellow human beings touched my heart while delivering a page-turning thriller. As Lydia and her young son, Luca, fled for their lives, I felt I was in her shoes and quite literally held my breath more than once. This book puts a face to the plight of immigrants and the often harrowing journey they take to get here. It sent me to the internet to research for myself the conditions in Acapulco and what the drug cartels have done to make it one of the most dangerous places in Mexico. I read about “The Beast”, the train many migrants hop on, risking kidnapping, violence, and death in their long, hazardous journey to the U.S. I’m shocked and disheartened that the author is being vilified and subjected to threats of violence. Ugly, vile things have been said about her. Over fiction, people! This is nothing short of bullying and censorship. It’s a slippery slope when we have readers leave one star “reviews” of a book they haven’t read or change a 4 or 5 star rating to a one star after being “enlightened”. Readers are entitled to their opinions. The author, as stated, is a bridge. She spent four years researching the book and the epilogue left me with even more respect for her. Don’t we need as many voices as possible telling the story? Let the book open hearts and minds and start a civil discussion of the issues. I bought a hardback copy to support the author in the midst of this nonsense, and have no regrets. If you want to support the movement, read this book, followed by an #ownvoices book(s). * this was a buddy read with Marialyce and a book we both enjoyed. For our duo review please visit https://yayareadslotsofbooks.wordpres...- * please note if you want to have an honest discourse and a civil discussion, all comments are welcome. However, all rude comments from trolls will be deleted.

Forced to flee from Acapulco after the massacre of their entire family, Lydia and her eight year old son Luca become migrants and begin their journey to the United States. What a journey! This is an extraordinary novel! This is a page turner that explores all the elements.. grief, love, kindness, survival... The movie rights have already been acquired... I don’t care about any controversy about the book or writer..it’s a NOVEL. a great one!

Wow! I think this was an outstanding 5 GLOWING stars!! I was hesitant to read this and decided on the audio version for this one. I really think it added to my enjoyment. The narrator was fabulous and I was completely captivated by Lydia's story. This is a powerful and emotional story. In some ways it reminds me of the book, "The Hate U Give" because it is a fictionalized account of an important issue. I understand that there is some controversy with this book but my rating is just based on my enjoyment of it. I read for entertainment and this was a fantastic piece of fiction.

I bought this book by accident, because there were 15 euros left at the book fair, I think today's Grapes of Wrath, it can't be a bad book... and it turns out, maybe even a little better.

4.5 Stars Lydia: My Heart Breaks for You and Your Strength Amazes Me. Lydia’s life changes in an instant. A bookstore owner, who cherishes her husband, Sebastian and her son Luca and the rest of her family. Everyday she goes into her store, pouring over beloved novels, spending time with customers and one in particular who, like she, loves to read. Little does she know, he is not who he seems. Then it happens. An attack. A bloodbath. Her entire family is gone, save herself and her son. Hot on her heels is the cartel. Lydia is then forced to flee from Acapulco, afraid for her life and that of her son’s. Her destination: America. Pulse pounding, terrifying, heart-wrenching, stunning and beautiful. An exploration of grief, friendship, family, survival and most of all love. “American Dirt” is, in my opinion, character driven literary fiction and it broke me. How could it not?! Though this is fiction (and should not be controversial as authors draw on real life to write fiction all of the time), it is based on events that happen each and every day to real people. While reading it, it felt as though my heart was ripping out of my chest. Luca: Brave, sweet, smart, kind Luca. Be still my heart. You brought such soul to this novel. My eyes fill with tears just thinking of you. Lydia: you are one heck of a mamma bear! All I have to say is you go! Soledad and Rebeca, you brought kindness to this book and you made my heart soar. Jeanine Cummins, this novel was beautifully written and brilliantly plotted and it will stay with me for a long time. To those of you who are considering reading this and have not, please disregard whatever you have heard and ignore the controversy and read it because you want to. Simply put, “American Dirt” is an incredible character driven novel about an important topic and that should be why you add it to your tbr and read it. Controversy should not stop anyone from reading (or writing) anything, EVER. Thank you to Jeanine Cummins for writing this stellar novel. I apologize for the controversy you have encountered regarding this book. You deserve awards, praise, kudos, champagne and so much more. Published on Goodreads on 4.12.20.

A beautifully written and timely story that is suspenseful, compelling and deeply affecting. SUMMARY In a pleasant Acapulco neighborhood, gunmen slaughter 16 people at a family barbecue. From a grandmother, to the young girl who was celebrating her quinceañera, they are all dead. The only survivors were Lydia, a young mother and her eight-year-old son, Luca. Lydia knew they must run as fast and as far as possible. Among the dead is Sebastian, Lydia‘s husband, a well-known journalist who had just published a featured article on Javier Crespo Fuentes, the leader of the local cartel, Los Jardineros. That article is the reason that her entire family is dead. Reeling from shock, Lydia know she has to leave Acapulco immediately, and go somewhere the cartels cannot reach. Lydia knows Fuentes, and actually thought he was a friend. But now she knows he will be looking for her. She trusts no one and is constantly looking over her shoulder. The cartel is everywhere. She will do whatever it takes to keep her son safe. Lydia and Luca’s harrowing 1,600 mile journey to el norte begins with a terrifying bus ride. Along the way they meet sisters, Soledad and Rebeca, who teach them what they need to know to ride the trains. They also meet ten-year-old Beto, who was born in a dump in Tijuana, but has the uncanny ability to make them all laugh when things are at their worst. It’s unlikely that all of them will survive the journey. REVIEW AMERICAN DIRT is a beautifully told story of the drastic lengths a mother will go to protect her child. The book was both terrifying and riveting. Lydia and Luca’s journey is harrowing and frightening. I felt as if I walked every step with Lydia. The descriptions of her emotions brought out in the story was impressive. Her shock and panic during and after the massacre, her courage and vulnerability on the road, and her strength and intelligence to do what it took to keep her son safe was heroic. One of life pleasure is when a book totally surprises you with how good it is. This is one of those books. It’s a story that enlightens and educate us about the dangers so many are facing in Mexico as the power of the drug cartels increases. The dangers are real and their lives are at stake. The choice is difficult, do they stay in the home they know and love and die, or do they want to survive. Author Jeanine Cummins the wife of a formerly undocumented immigrant started the novel to give a face to the migrants at the Mexican border. She is the author of three other books: The Outside Boys (2010), and The Crooked Branch (2013) and her best-selling memoir A Rip in Heaven (2004). She lives on New York with her husband and two children. Cummings is interested in characters who suffer inconceivable hardship, and people who manage to triumph over extraordinary trauma, characters like Lydia and Soledad. While writing this book she asks the questions: how would I manage if I lived in a place that began to collapse around me, and If my children were in danger, how far would I go to save them? Those are the questions this book answers. Publisher FlatIron Books Published January 21,2020 Review www.bluestockingreviews.com

I side with Oprah in that I was consumed by the story in “American Dirt”. The story possessed me. The novel is beautifully written and takes the reader in, forcing the reader to “live” the story. From what I have read, critics are upset that author Jeanine Cummins is not Mexican and should not be writing this story. Furthermore, she continues the views of Mexicans as savages. I wonder if they read the novel. I did NOT get that from the story. From what I read, there were many kind and supporting Mexicans who aided and abetted the migrants. Yes, there was brutality, but I’ve read that in ALL the other stories about the immigrants. Additionally, the main character is Mexican, and she and her son are running away from a powerful Mexican cartel leader. Are we to believe that the Mexican cartel has no power over the Mexican citizens? Haters gotta hate, and this is a misguided controversy. The controversy that Cummins supports the Trump version of Mexico is ridiculous. Saying that, I do hope the added hate publicity encourages more book sales to see what the controversy is all about. In the story, Lydia and her young son Luca are running from Javier Crespo Fuentes, aka: Los Jardineros. He is a Mexican drug lord with influence throughout Mexico. He takes out Lydia’s family after her husband, a journalist, writes a story about Los Jardineros. Lydia and Luca are from Acapulco and need to escape. We go with them, on their incredible journey of escape. Author Jeanine Cummins illuminates the perilous journey that the immigrants endure. She makes the reader “feel” what it’s like. If anything, the reader is going to change their opinion about immigrants and begin supporting a more open immigration policy, allowing more immigrants to come into America. For me, it was more of an “anti-Trump” story than one that promotes his views of Mexico. I LOVED this novel. Just because an author is Puerto Rican and taken her husband’s last name does not make her illegitimate. An influential story doesn’t not need to come from an author of a certain ethnic background. If a story changes opinions and views, isn’t that enough?

American Dirt by Jeanine Cummins (#114 in 2019) I have seen a LOT of opinions about this book. I've seen everything rave reviews to heated opinions on the political appropriateness of this novel. Some bookstagrammers have suggested that this book purports a negative impression of undocumented immigrants and of Mexico because of the prevalence of drug cartels and violence, while others feel that this book contains more than those very basic tropes. The premise to the story is this: Lydia, a Mexican woman from Acapulco, and her son, Luca, survive a violent raid of their family's gathering. During the raid, sixteen family members, including Lydia's husband, Sebastian, are murdered by members of a powerful drug cartel because of their association to the news outlet that has published an article exposing the jefe, Javier. American Dirt is the story of Lydia's quest to protect her son, her only remaining family member, from a world she fears, even if that means illegally venturing into a new country for both safety and a better future. It's no secret that our current political climate projects negative feelings towards immigrants, both documented and undocumented. While our current president has repeatedly portrayed the country of Mexico and its citizens as dangerous for his own political gain, Mexico is certainly not the only country that the presidency has sought to vilify. Many of us (I hope many of us) recognize the inhumanity of that projected view, and we seek ways to counteract the assumptions and stereotypes. Jeanine Cummins likely used Mexico as her setting because of its proximity to the United States and because of the prevalence of its mention in the media. What is important to note is that Jeanine Cummins may have used a Mexican woman and child as protagonists, but the migrants they meet along the way come from other countries such as native indian Honduran tribes. These other migrants' backstories reveal life-altering experiences, which are not identical but just as traumatic, to that of Lydia and Luca. Including the stories of migrants from other countries, Cummins demonstrates the multitude of reasons why people of other nations might seek refuge in the United States. I felt that American Dirt provided an emotional backstory that could help to explain the reasons for undocumented immigrants' migration to the United States and could, in turn, help American citizens to develop a sense of empathy that would otherwise not exist. While I cannot begin to personally relate to plights such as these, I can provide some insight as the wife of an immigrant. My husband, a Coptic-Egyptian, came to this country as a two-year old seeking religious freedom. My in-laws followed all immigration laws and came to the United States as documented immigrants, and they were lucky enough to be able to do so for the safety of their immediate family. Just as Lydia had done, my in-laws made a drastic geographical change to provide their child with a more promising future and a chance to be free from the constraints of religious discrimination. Regardless of how an immigrant comes into this country, the circumstances and motivations behind their migration remain consistent-- people who come to the United States seek better lives and, in most cases, do not have a “home” to return to. Lydia and Luca prove that. The sisters from Honduras prove that. The boys and men and women they meet along the way prove that. American Dirt is about moving forward, and that's a theme we can all relate to. — The value of a writer does not rest in the adversity he or she has personally experienced; it rests in his or her ability to convey a story that sparks emotion or that reveals a perspective that otherwise would have gone unheard. Lydia's story is not uncommon and while it's difficult to read, it's important for us to learn about tragedy and adversity. One of the biggest criticisms of American Dirt is that it sheds too much of a light on the negative aspects of Mexico. American Dirt does that, but what impactful story doesn't? It should be noted that Cummins also uses her literary technique to paint such beautiful portraits of the Mexican landscape and of the resilient, courageous, and persistent characters who protect one another in the face of danger. It should be noted that Cummins also uses her stunning literary technique to paint such beautiful portraits of the Mexican landscape and of the resilient, courageous, and persistent characters who protect one another in the face of danger. Cummins’ writing style is eloquent and raw, and the story is impactful and resonant.⁣ ⁣ FIVE BIG STARS ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⁣ — For those of you who like to get a good quote before you decide to read a book: “If it’s only a better life you seek, seek it elsewhere. This path is only for people who have no choice, no other option, only violence and misery behind you. And your journey will grow even more treacherous from here. Everything is working against you, to thwart you. Some of you will fall from the trains. Many will be maimed or injured. Many will die. Many many of you will be kidnapped, tortured, traffic, or ransomed. Some will be lucky enough to survive all of that and make it as far as Estados Unidos only to experience a privilege of dying alone in the desert beneath the sun, abandoned by a crooked coyote, or shot by a narco who doesn’t like the look of you.”

Wow! So timely, heartbreaking, and powerful. A fear induced adventure- the search for freedom- immigration, Mexico, drug cartels, and the power of common experience...I loved this journey! This attention grabbing story is one of the most anticipated novels of 2020. Since its release, every day is judgement day for American Dirt. Media outlets are talking about this one, including Oprah. As her latest Book Club pick, Oprah, moved by the unforgettable book, encouraged her audience to read it. Opening a can of worms with the media, both naysayers and supporters are speaking out about the new novel. Barnes & Noble picked it to be the next book club book and NPR and the LA Times gave it positive reviews. The NYTimes wasn’t so kind. As a white United States citizen, is author Jeanine Cummins qualified to give voice to a migrant? Does she have the right to speak about a country that is not hers? Somehow the controversy makes people all the more interested in reading and developing their own opinion, and I really hope they do. I, for sure, am on team Oprah for this one and look forward to discussing it with my book group! For me, American Dirt by Jeanine Cummins is a READ MORE HERE https://booknationbyjen.com/2020/01/2...

“… it’s like a war zone, all drones and cameras and la migra just waiting over there like a gang of overpaid goalkeepers.” Lydia Quixano Pérez runs a successful bookstore in Acapulco, Mexico. Her husband, an investigative journalist, and her eight year old son, Luca, are the lights of a life that, up until then, was happy and fulfilled. That light is almost snuffed out in a single night when Javier Crespo Fuentes, the ruthless local drug lord, invades a birthday celebration and brutally assassinates her husband and fifteen other members of her family in retaliation for an exposé news article he had written for his newspaper. Knowing that Fuentes will not stop until he finishes the job and that his violent and sadistic grasp covers all of Mexico, Lydia and Luca are left with no alternative but to join the tsunami of migrants fleeing the country – to head to el norte, los Estados Unidos. AMERICAN DIRT is the poignant, terrifying, electric, heroic and utterly unpredictable story of their escape and it is a masterpiece that speaks to the world. In John Grisham’s back-cover blurb, he is quoted as saying, “Its message is important and timely, but not political.” He’s right. It isn’t. But that’s because it doesn’t have to be. The title, AMERICAN DIRT, and the unvarnished simple objective facts of the story of the hate and racism that is compacted into the final stages of Lydia’s and Luca’s escape through the Sonoran Desert in southern Arizona speak volumes without making a single direct political comment. It is about the shocking and disturbing (disgusting, for my money) treatment that refugees fleeing Mexico and Central America in fear of their lives can expect at the hands of hateful Americans who simply don’t want them in their country. It is about the reality that even long-term US residents – people who have established roots, had children, contributed to their community and paid taxes - who are still undocumented immigrants may be rounded up and deported at the whim of US Border Control AMERICAN DIRT is a riveting novel that you must read. I cannot recommend it highly enough! Paul Weiss

Oh this book. I wasn’t going to review for a while given that this is a 2020 publication but American Dirt is one of those books you finish and immediately need to talk about. So a short sharp review now then when next year rolls around trust me, I’ll be back. Annoying y’all until you read it. American Dirt is impeccably researched which gives it full flavour but the beauty and the horror of it all comes across because the writing, the sense of it, is stunningly authentic. It hits you right in the heart from the incredibly powerful opening to the tear inducing finale and that’s not even taking into account the interim journey, one mother and her son desperately seeking safety.. There is truth here. Horrific truth but also love and hope and everything in between. Inhale this like I did and the next time you read those click bait headlines you’ll see them in an entirely new light. A human one. Don’t miss it. Or look away. Highly Recommended.

Confronting, courageous, heartbreaking, hard hitting, and absolutely unforgettable. My emotions are still in overdrive. American Dirt is a disturbing in-depth exploration of the rise in organised crime violence around Mexico in recent years, the immigration crisis at the US/Mexico border, and migrant smuggling. In the blink of an eye Lydia and her young son, Luca, are forced to run, to flee their life in Acapulco and head north, when every member of their immediate and extended family is executed in a targeted massacre. Not only do they lose their family, but their livelihood, security, comfort and safety as well. The tense urgency of their dire situation was a constant throughout the story, where every decision Lydia made to protect Luca and herself could potentially lead to capture, torture and death. Mother and son not only had to contend with danger at every turn, but also faced hunger, dehydration, exhaustion, lack of hygiene and unsanitary conditions, grief, and uncertainly. They encountered some of the most despicable, cruel, evil human beings imaginable, but also hope, friendship, kindness and rescue from people who went out of their way to help, at great peril to themselves. I was utterly invested in Lydia and Luca and their story and journey, along with other characters they met along the way, who in turn shared their harrowing experiences and dreams for the future. Lydia was maybe a little naïve in her judgement. She should've put two-and-two together sooner, especially taking into account that her husband was a journalist, but I think she was in denial of losing a friendship she had come to value so much. When I picked this one up, I admit to being nervous over the content, anxious that it was going to be too graphic and descriptive for me to stomach, and I was prepared to put the book aside, without finishing, if that happened. But my concern was unfounded – yes it was horrifying, impacting, and awful in places, but I never at any point considered stopping because I couldn't handle it. The author chose to use a ‘head hopping’ POV, a considered-to-be outdated practice where a character viewpoint switches from one sentence/paragraph to another person. One moment we're in Lydia's perspective, the next Luca's, and back – sometimes even a third party. I found it refreshing, hopefully it's making a comeback, because I've never understood why it's become so taboo in recent years, as I don't ever remember finding it confusing to follow when it was commonplace, and this book was no exception. It's made abundantly clear whose head you're in while reading. I think it's important to remind ourselves that the majority of the violence in Mexico is confined to drug gangs, and that the country is not as corrupt and lawless as it is portrayed in this book. Every place has its dark underbelly, and unsafe areas, and because of the way the characters in this novel were forced to hide and travel, coupled with the fact that they were being hunted, meant they were at much greater risk of being assaulted, abused, robbed, intimidated, and taken advantage of. Never forget, American Dirt is at its core a work of fiction therefore embellished for dramatic effect. There is a lot of controversy surrounding this novel at the moment, but in my opinion any fiction that draws attention to the distressing topics and situations raised in the book, and sparks the level of discussion and debate this one has, is a positive step in the right direction. American Dirt has left a lasting impression on me.

On February 7, 2020 I put a hold on this book at the library. At the time, I was 1 of 228 people on the holds list. And then the pandemic occurred and well, I didn’t get this book until Friday, September 11. And now I have two words for it: Brilliant. Brutal. I say brilliant because the author explores these elements... grief, love, kindness, survival... Brutal because this is a timely and powerful portrayal of the plight of the migrant. And then there is the Mexican cartel. The cartel’s savagery is not the focus of the novel but it is the impetus. (The first few pages of the book suck you in and give you your first glimpse.) At its heart, this is a novel about victims and there are unfortunately lots of them. And, no one is to be trusted. And how is one to feel when you have nowhere safe to turn? Although, amid much cold-blooded barbarity and those out to make money at the expense of the downtrodden, there are some good souls to be found. Be prepared to read this with your heart beating fast. On another note…there is much controversy surrounding the fact that this is a White author, but, her research is impeccable and her story is heartfelt.

REREAD WENT SO HARD!!! 5 stars the first time around 5 stars the second time around SOMEHOW IT WAS EVEN BETTER??!!!!!! God I’m obsessed with this book. Don’t even get me started on kingfisher, that man should actually be illegal with how unwell he makes me. I’m doomed. He will forever be one of my favorite fictional men ever. God I love these characters and this found family so much. I have such high expectations for brimstone I CANNOT WAIT!!! But I’m also terrified. No I don’t think it’s gonna turn into a love triangle yall are WILD FOR THAT THEORY AND MAKE ME THINK YOU DIDNT READ THE BOOK BECAUSE THESE TWO WOULD NEVER!! —————————————————- “For those who live their nightmares so that others may have their dreams.” Where do I even BEGIN??? Without a doubt one of my favorite reads of the year! Obsessed is actually the biggest understatement. Everything I want out of a fantasy romance book and them some! I am truly blown away that this is the authors first book in this genre, it was PERFECTION and I will be making it my entire personality. The world building is very easy to digest and I was immediately sucked in from the second I started reading. I found it actually impossible to put this book down. The perfect balance of plot and romance. The magic system was unlike anything I’ve ever read before and I love how it plays such an integral role in the overall story. There were times where I thought I knew where things were going, then I was absolutely gob smacked by how wrong I was. The last 200 pages had me white knuckling my book. The action and battles scenes were absolutely INCREDIBLE! Don’t even get me started on shadow daddy Fisher… this man…. THIS MAN!! Let’s just say my top 10 book boyfriends have some serious competition. He is so grumpy and territorial and possessive and a little bit toxic but in the BEST WAY POSSIBLE!! I mean he’s Fae, what do you expect? His mouth???!! Every time he spoke all the feminism left my body. Such a shameless flirt and I ate up every second of it. I surprisingly loved not getting his POV because it added to the mystery and intrigue of him as a character, and trust me this man has secrets. I need him on a level that probably isn’t healthy and I don’t care. His nickname for her means “most sacred” I MEAN COME ON. “I'll happily kiss all of your aches and pains better for you once we strike camp. I've been told my mouth has healing properties. Especially when administered between a pair of thighs.” “She is moonlight. The mist that shrouds the mountains. The bite of electricity in the air before a storm. The smoke that rolls across a battlefield before the killing starts. You have no idea what she is. What she could be. You should call her Majesty.” “I'll be grateful for every second that I can say that I belong to you, Saeris Fane. Eighty years or eighteen hours. It doesn't matter to me. It'll still be the highest honor of my life.” Our FMC Saeris is such a confident badass but not in an annoying, “pick me” way. She knows what she wants and goes after it but actually thinks her decisions through and doesn’t act on pure emotion, shocking I know. And her overall mindset is so empowering! I cannot wait to see her character grow throughout the series! THE ROMANCE!!!! You can feel the chemistry oozing out of the pages. The banter between Saeris and Fisher is chefs fucking kiss, the tension is so thick you can cut it with a knife. It’s giving soulmates and I will find you in every lifetime. It’s advertised as enemies to lovers but I personally wouldn’t describe it as enemies to lovers i would say it’s more “I really don’t like you and I don’t know why to lovers”, but I still ate it up. The side characters were so well flushed out and impossible not to fall in love with! The found family was EVERYTHING, I’m already so emotionally attached to them and it’s only book 1!!! “Be unrelenting and unmerciful in the face of the wicked dead. And if you should find your soul sundered from flesh, order a drink for us at the first tavern you come across in the afterlife. We’ll settle the tab when we get there.” This book is for you if you love: ✔️found family ✔️enemies to lovers ✔️grumpy shadow daddy MMC ✔️unique magic system ✔️delicious banter and tension ✔️slow burn ✔️fated mates ✔️badass FMC ✔️spicy spice

Ate this up like a snickers bar. The shadow wielding, morally gray, tortured soul MMC just doesn’t get old. Gimme fourteen of ‘em right now. Plus, this one had a bit of a Twilight flair that I enjoyed.

this is my EXACT taste in fantasy i don’t even care

ABSOLUTELY FUCKING INCREDIBLE. Yes yes yes, I loved this from page 1 and from now on all I want to read is romantacy...

4.75 ⭐️ Trust me, this book is worth the hype! "I am the thing that exists on the other side of the dark. I'm the thing that puts the fear of the gods into the monsters who would eat you bones and all." WHAT TO EXPECT: ✨ gritty romantasy ✨ humans, fae, vampires, gods, magic, fates ✨ she's a human with a secret gift ✨ he's a tattooed, damaged and dangerous fae shadow daddy ✨ bargains and oaths ✨ hate to love ✨ forced proximity ✨ delicious banter ✨ lots of lust and sexual tension ✨ 3.5/5 spice (open door, explicit) ✨ "she's mine" ✨ badass FMC ✨ grumpy MMC ✨ found family ✨ shocking twists and turns ✨ minor cliffhanger that sets up for book 2 ✨ TW: war, violence, gore, torture, mentions of SA ✨ single POV My Thoughts: I have not enjoyed a lot of of the popular romantasy book recommendations lately, so I am pleased to say that this was fucking fantastic! Okay, so what did I like about this story??? The world-building and magic system is intriguing. It all felt familiar in the sense that if you dabble in the fantasy or paranormal genres, you've probably read plenty of stories with fae, vampires, gods, portal magic, etc. However, this was done in a unique way so it felt like a fresh concept. I don't want to say anything more because it would spoil things, but I am curious to learn more about the Quicksilver and dive deeper into the politics of these worlds and other forms of magic. Saeris Fane is a breath of fresh air. She is strong-willed, scrappy, straight-forward, and persistent: a survivor. Since Saeris is the main character in a world with magic, she does have a secret gift that gets explored throughout the story, but it's developed in a realistic way. Yes, Saeris is unique, special, and powerful, but not in the obnoxious 'Chosen One' sort of way that's been repeatedly done. I also liked how she can be snarky and sassy at times without coming off as immature. Saeris is definitely one of my favorite FMCs and I'm so excited to see how her character develops in book 2! Kingfisher. Powerful, intimidating, dangerous, and, of course, sexy. At first, I really hated him. 😂 He was SUCH a dick to Saeris with no explanation why. However, as the story progresses, you realize he's also fiercely loyal, protective, and selfless. There's nothing he wouldn't do for the people he loves and those he's responsible for. I liked that this story is single POV so we learned more about Kingfisher and ended up falling in love with him along with Saeris. The ONLY thing I didn't love was his name. I'm glad most people call him Fisher instead of Kingfisher (which is a bird), but I am almost positive the author chose this name as some sort of foreshadowing. From my research, kingfishers in literature symbolize the rise and fall of civilizations, which is definitely relevant to this story. The romance ATE! There's amazing banter, delicious tension, and the spice is *chef's fucking kiss*! Almost every interaction between Saeris and Fisher had me kicking and screaming in a giddy sort of way. You never knew if these two were going to fight or fuck and I was living for it. I loved how Saeris would try to brush off her attraction to Fisher with rude or snarky comments but he'd always turn it around on her and she'd leave the conversations hot and bothered. For example: "I wouldn't fuck you - if you were the last living -" "Don't bother." The words held bite. "Lying is pointless with your heart betraying you so loudly." "It's beating fast because I'm afraid," I snapped. "Of me?" Kingfisher huffed a blast of laughter down his nose. "No, you're not. You should be, but you're not. That's one of the things I like most about you. . . You want to touch me the way I'm touching you, don't you? To feel the weight of me beneath your palms. The heat of me . . ." "You're wrong." He shook his head. "I'm not. . . I can smell you, Little Osha, and I'm thinking about drinking the sweet nectar you're making for me straight from the fucking cup." And of course, the actual spice had me in a chokehold! These scenes are open door, explicit and very detailed. Like, pages and pages worth of smut. 🔥 And Fisher's dirty talk is superior. I'm legit getting sweaty just glancing over some of the things he says. Once Fisher and Saeris stop denying their attraction for each other, they share a few sweet and tender moments between. Whenever he calls her 'little Osha' my stomach flutters with butterflies. 🦋 The scene where he takes her hands and puts it on her heart so she can feel it beat, had me in my feels. 🥺 💕 And the note. 😭 Their love made me emotional and horny all at the same time. The premise / plot is exciting! The beginning starts off with a bang as Saeris runs from one of the Queen's guard, and from that point on, there's always something going on whether it's political intrigue, developing romance, training, or fights. I liked how there's a relatively equal focus between the romance and story plot so that one doesn't overwhelm or take away from the over. And that ending!!!! Oh my gosh!!!! I genuinely did not see those reveals and the turn of events coming! Again, can't say much without spoiling, but just prepare to experience a kaleidoscope of emotions. Two things to note: the story is a bit long and it may take a second to get into. However, I didn't think the length was a problem since it all felt relevant to the plot and world development. There’s so many layers to this story and the more you read, the more invested you’ll find yourself. Also, I typically have to read 10% of a fantasy story to figure out if I'm going to enjoy it or not. These things weren't issues for me, but I want to mention them since I've seen a few reviews talking about these points. Overall, Quicksilver is a captivating, swoon-worthy romantasy that swept me off my feet. Depending on the next books in the series, it could easily become one of my all-time favorite series! I wish I could read the next book immediately, and I’m so sad we have to wait an entire year for it. But also, kudos to Callie Hart for having this book get picked up by a publisher! Well deserved! Favorite Quotes: Dedication: "For those who live their nightmares so that others may have their dream." _______ I hadn't seen many beautiful things in my short life. But, of all the beautiful things I had seen, Fisher was the most beautiful of all. _______ "I can smell you, Little Osha, and I'm thinking about drinking the sweet nectar you're making for me straight from the fucking cup." _______ Kingfisher was smart. He could be an angry, arrogant, half-mad, outrageously handsome piece of shit and an intelligent tactician at the same time. Turned out the two weren't mutually exclusive. _______ "I don't enjoy hurting people. I don't like it at all. But that doesn't mean it isn't necessary. To avoid far more serious pain, sometimes we have to endure a little sting. Sometimes, some of us have to inflict it." _______ We were either going to kill each other or fuck each other, and I was glad we were both opting for the latter option. _______ "Let your knees fall open," he demanded. "I-" "No arguments, Osha. I've driven myself half-crazy wondering what you look like. I need to fucking see. Put me out of my misery." _______ "Don't call her Sunshine." "Why not?" "Because she is moonlight. The mist that shrouds the mountains. The bite of electricity in the air before a storm. The smoke that rolls across a battlefield before killing stars. You have no idea what she is. What she could be. You should call her Majesty." _______ "Every warrior in Innir will smell me on you. I'm going to make you hoarse from screaming my fucking name. I'm going to mark you in every way imaginable, so that everyone knows you're fucking mine." _______ "Make me forget that I've ever suffered. Make me forget that I will again." _______ I was going to have a heart attack. Or my heart was going to break in two. Either way, my heart was in trouble, and there was no protecting it now. _______

5 MFN’ STARS!!! I. AM. SCREAMING. This book is worth all of the hype. ALL OF IT. It deserves MORE!!! It has it all. Magic I’ve never read about before, found family that I suspect will continue to get better and better as the next two books come, an EMO SHADOW DADDY!!!!, a badass FMC that has survived by the skin of her teeth, and plot twists GALORE. For all those comparing it to ACOTAR… this series may end up being even better. I SAID IT. So freaking good, no boring moments, and I’m CHOMPING AT THE BIT for the next book. This is one of my favorite books of the year and it will not move from that position. Also… FISHER. I LOVVVVEEEE HIM. 10/10 recommend. Read it.

—— 𝟓 ☆ 𝐬𝐭𝐚𝐫𝐬. 🦋 ❝𝐼𝓉 𝒹𝑜𝑒𝓈𝓃’𝓉 𝓂𝒶𝓉𝓉𝑒𝓇 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝒽𝑒 𝑔𝓇𝑜𝓌𝓈 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓈𝓉𝑒𝓅𝓈 𝒾𝓃𝓉𝑜 𝒽𝒾𝓈 𝓅𝑜𝓌𝑒𝓇. 𝐸𝓋𝑒𝓃 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓈𝓉𝓇𝑜𝓃𝑔𝑒𝓈𝓉 𝓌𝒶𝓇𝓇𝒾𝑜𝓇’𝓈 𝒽𝑒𝒶𝓇𝓉 𝒸𝒶𝓃 𝒷𝓇𝑒𝒶𝓀. 𝐻𝒾𝓈 𝓈𝑜𝓊𝓁 𝒸𝒶𝓃 𝓈𝓉𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝒷𝑒 𝒸𝓇𝓊𝓈𝒽𝑒𝒹.❞ 📖/🎧┆𝐐𝐮𝐢𝐜𝐤𝐬𝐢𝐥𝐯𝐞𝐫 𝐛𝐲 𝐂𝐚𝐥𝐥𝐢𝐞 𝐇𝐞𝐚𝐫𝐭 🏷️┆𝐆𝐞𝐧𝐫𝐞: ℝ𝕠𝕞𝕒𝕟𝕥𝕒𝕤𝕪 📆┆𝐃𝐚𝐭𝐞𝐬 𝐑𝐞𝐚𝐝: 𝟝/𝟞/𝟚𝟝 - 𝟝/𝟙𝟘/𝟚𝟝 📋┆𝐒𝐲𝐧𝐨𝐩𝐬𝐢𝐬 「 ”The Fae have always been the stuff of myth, of legend, of nightmares... but it turns out they're real, and when Saeris re-opens a gateway between realms, she lands herself in the middle of a centuries-long conflict that might just get her killed. Saeris mistakenly binds herself to Kingfisher, a handsome Fae warrior, who has secrets and nefarious agendas of his own. He will use her Alchemist's magic to protect his people, no matter what it costs him.. or her.”」 ❝𝒜𝒷𝑜𝓋𝑒 𝒶𝓁𝓁, 𝓀𝓃𝑜𝓌 𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓈. 𝒯𝒽𝑒𝓇𝑒 𝓌𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝒷𝑒 𝓉𝒾𝓂𝑒𝓈 𝓌𝒽𝑒𝓃 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓌𝑜𝓇𝓁𝒹 𝓈𝑒𝑒𝓀𝓈 𝓉𝑜 𝒹𝑒𝓈𝓉𝓇𝑜𝓎 𝓎𝑜𝓊, 𝒦𝒾𝓃𝑔𝒻𝒾𝓈𝒽𝑒𝓇. 𝐵𝓊𝓉 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒶𝓇𝑒 𝓈𝓉𝓇𝑜𝓃𝑔𝑒𝓇 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓃 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒸𝒶𝓃 𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇 𝓀𝓃𝑜𝓌. 𝒴𝑜𝓊 𝓌𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝓃𝑜𝓉 𝒻𝒶𝓁𝓉𝑒𝓇. 𝒜𝓃𝒹 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓌𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝓃𝑜𝓉 𝒻𝒶𝒸𝑒 𝒾𝓉 𝒶𝓁𝓁 𝒶𝓁𝑜𝓃𝑒.❞ ·͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙ ᴍʏ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: ★★★★★ ɢᴏᴏᴅʀᴇᴀᴅꜱ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: 𝟺.𝟹𝟾 ☆ ꜱᴛᴀʀꜱ ꜱᴘɪᴄᴇ: 🌶️🌶️🌶️ ½ ᴘᴀɪʀ ᴡɪᴛʜ: ᴡᴀᴛᴇʀ & Qᴜɪᴄʜᴇ 💧 lıllılı.ıllı.ılılıılıı.lllııılı. ɴᴏᴡ ᴘʟᴀʏɪɴɢ: [ᴀʟᴄʜᴇᴍʏ ♪ ᴛᴀʏʟᴏʀ ꜱᴡɪꜰᴛ] 0:50 ———♡——— 3:17 ◁◁ ▐ ▌ ▷▷ ‧₊˚♪𝄞࿐₊˚⊹ 𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛 𝑜𝑛 𝑦𝑜𝑢𝑟 ℎ𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑡 𝑠𝑎𝑖𝑑 𝑖𝑡'𝑠 𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑙𝑙 𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑒𝑑 𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑚𝑒. ℎ𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑙𝑦, 𝑤ℎ𝑜 𝑎𝑟𝑒 𝑤𝑒 𝑡𝑜 𝑓𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑎𝑙𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑚𝑦? ʀᴇᴀᴅ ɪꜰ ʏᴏᴜ ʟɪᴋᴇ: 🗡️ ꜰᴀᴛᴇᴅ ᴍᴀᴛᴇꜱ 🦋 ꜰᴏᴜɴᴅ ꜰᴀᴍɪʟʏ 🗡️ ꜱʜᴀᴅᴏᴡ ᴅᴀᴅᴅɪᴇꜱ 🦋 ꜰɪʀꜱᴛ ᴘᴇʀꜱᴏɴ ᴘᴏᴠ 🗡️ ꜰᴏʀᴄᴇᴅ ᴘʀᴏxɪᴍɪᴛʏ 🦋 ᴇɴᴇᴍɪᴇꜱ ᴛᴏ ʟᴏᴠᴇʀꜱ 🗡️ ᴍᴏʀᴀʟʟʏ ɢʀᴀʏ ᴍᴍᴄ 🦋 ᴄʟɪꜰꜰʜᴀɴɢᴇʀ ᴇɴᴅɪɴɢ 🗡️ ᴜɴɪQᴜᴇ ᴍᴀɢɪᴄ ꜱʏꜱᴛᴇᴍ 🦋 ʜᴜᴍᴀɴ ꜰᴍᴄ ᴡɪᴛʜ ᴀ ꜱᴇᴄʀᴇᴛ ɢɪꜰᴛ 🗡️ ꜰᴀᴇ, ᴠᴀᴍᴘɪʀᴇꜱ, ᴡɪᴛᴄʜᴇꜱ, ɢᴏᴅꜱ, ᴏʜ ᴍʏ! ❝𝐹𝑜𝓇 𝓉𝒽𝑜𝓈𝑒 𝓌𝒽𝑜 𝓁𝒾𝓋𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝒾𝓇 𝓃𝒾𝑔𝒽𝓉𝓂𝒶𝓇𝑒𝓈, 𝓈𝑜 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝑜𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇𝓈 𝓂𝒶𝓎 𝒽𝒶𝓋𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝒾𝓇 𝒹𝓇𝑒𝒶𝓂𝓈.❞ ·͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙ ⚠️ᴡᴀʀɴɪɴɢ: ᴛʜɪꜱ ʀᴇᴠɪᴇᴡ ᴡɪʟʟ ʜᴀᴠᴇ ꜱᴘᴏɪʟᴇʀꜱ …& ʙᴇ ʟᴏɴɢ⚠️ 💬┆𝐓𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐬 • You know what? Hell yeah. I get it. I get why you’ll either love Quicksilver or hate it. I get why there’s so many mixed reviews. Is the writing the greatest? No. Was there too much going on? Yes. Was it sometimes overwhelming with all the information thrown at you? Yes. But the tension was tensioning (not even sure that’s a real word) ➕ banter was bantering 🟰 vibes were sure as hell vibin’. • Sure, it’s the same old story that’s been told so many times in fantasy books: human & fae hate each other then fall in love, human & fae are fated mates, human dies/transitions. I get why a lot of readers are sick of this & want something new to read about. But guys, I am a sucker for a romantasy with a good enemies to lovers trope, a morally gray MMC who also happens to be a powerful shadow daddy, a badass FMC who takes no shit, & pretty much every trope I listed above ⤴️ These are the ingredients needed to make a perfect romantasy read for me. I would describe this as if ACOTAR & The Serpent and the Wings of Night had a child. • Like I say in my profile; I’m forever chasing the high that reading ACOTAR for the first time gave me. While this wasn’t the same high, tbh I don’t think there ever will be, it came pretty damn close. It scratched that romantasy itch. It gave me ✨the feeling✨ & if you’re a fantasy/romantasy fan, you know exactly what feeling I’m talking about. You could describe it as a million Oshellith butterflies dancing around in your chest. 😏 • While I knew I would fall in love with the star of the show, Kingfisher, I also ended up falling in love with Saeris, Renfis, Lorreth, & especially Carrion, the comedic relief we needed. He was giving Ridoc & I loved him so much for it. ⤷ ❝𝐼 𝒿𝓊𝓈𝓉 𝓁𝑜𝓋𝑒 𝒾𝓉 𝓌𝒽𝑒𝓃 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒹𝒾𝓈𝒶𝓅𝓅𝑒𝒶𝓇 𝒾𝓃𝓉𝑜 𝓉𝑒𝓃𝓈𝑒 𝒸𝑜𝓃𝓋𝑒𝓇𝓈𝒶𝓉𝒾𝑜𝓃𝓈 𝓌𝒾𝓉𝒽 𝒸𝓇𝑒𝑒𝓅𝓎 𝓅𝑜𝓇𝓉𝒶𝓁 𝓂𝑒𝓉𝒶𝓁,” 𝒞𝒶𝓇𝓇𝒾𝑜𝓃 𝓆𝓊𝒾𝓅𝓅𝑒𝒹, 𝒽𝑜𝒾𝓈𝓉𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝒽𝒾𝓂𝓈𝑒𝓁𝒻 𝓊𝓅 𝓉𝑜 𝓈𝒾𝓉 𝑜𝓃 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝒷𝑒𝓃𝒸𝒽. “𝐼𝓉’𝓈 𝒻𝒶𝓈𝒸𝒾𝓃𝒶𝓉𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓌𝒶𝓉𝒸𝒽𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒹𝑜 𝒶𝓁𝓁 𝑜𝒻 𝓉𝒽𝑜𝓈𝑒 𝒻𝒶𝒸𝒾𝒶𝓁 𝑔𝓎𝓂𝓃𝒶𝓈𝓉𝒾𝒸𝓈.❞ • Even though this was a 5 star read, there were a few minor things I wasn’t crazy about. I do think the author was trying to do too much in one book, albeit its length, with all the different antagonists & issues that our protagonists were faced with. & sometimes I thought I would understand what she was trying to do or what direction she was going in, but then she lost me & it became too complicated with too many moving parts & players in this game. • The ending is what really sealed the deal for me on how much I loved this book. Saeris Fane, the female that you are: most powerful alchemist to ever exist, mate of Kingfisher, half FAE, half VAMPIRE, & now QUEEN?🧎🏼‍♀️Can this chick get any more badass? From the beginning, I know she was going to become a favorite FMC of mine. random thoughts: ⤷ 10/10 would recommend the audiobook. I tried to do both, but the audiobook won in the end. Kingfisher’s voice is 🥵🤰🏼 ⤷ Before I read this, I thought the name of the MMC was going to be Quicksilver so imagine my shock being introduced to “Kingfisher”? ⤷ Anyone else immediately think of Star Wars when everyone kept saying Saeris was going to be the one to bring balance? Or did I just out myself as a nerd? ⤷ If anything happens to my baby Onyx, there will be hell to pay. ⤷ You know what else I’m a sucker for? When Faes have elongated canines. 🤭 ⤷ This book made me want to chug my 40oz Stanley in one sitting. The water rations that were implemented on the Third Ward was cruel. ⤷ I’ll never get over hearing Kingfisher call Saeris LITTLE OSHA 🥹 ·͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙ ❝”𝒟𝑜𝓃’𝓉 𝒸𝒶𝓁𝓁 𝒽𝑒𝓇 𝒮𝓊𝓃𝓈𝒽𝒾𝓃𝑒,” 𝒽𝑒 𝒸𝑜𝓂𝓂𝒶𝓃𝒹𝑒𝒹. “𝒲𝒽𝓎 𝓃𝑜𝓉?” “𝐵𝑒𝒸𝒶𝓊𝓈𝑒 𝓈𝒽𝑒 𝒾𝓈 𝓂𝑜𝑜𝓃𝓁𝒾𝑔𝒽𝓉. 𝒯𝒽𝑒 𝓂𝒾𝓈𝓉 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓈𝒽𝓇𝑜𝓊𝒹𝓈 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓂𝑜𝓊𝓃𝓉𝒶𝒾𝓃𝓈. 𝒯𝒽𝑒 𝒷𝒾𝓉𝑒 𝑜𝒻 𝑒𝓁𝑒𝒸𝓉𝓇𝒾𝒸𝒾𝓉𝓎 𝒾𝓃 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝒶𝒾𝓇 𝒷𝑒𝒻𝑜𝓇𝑒 𝒶 𝓈𝓉𝑜𝓇𝓂. 𝒯𝒽𝑒 𝓈𝓂𝑜𝓀𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓇𝑜𝓁𝓁𝓈 𝒶𝒸𝓇𝑜𝓈𝓈 𝒶 𝒷𝒶𝓉𝓉𝓁𝑒𝒻𝒾𝑒𝓁𝒹 𝒷𝑒𝒻𝑜𝓇𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓀𝒾𝓁𝓁𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓈𝓉𝒶𝓇𝓉𝓈. 𝒴𝑜𝓊 𝒽𝒶𝓋𝑒 𝓃𝑜 𝒾𝒹𝑒𝒶 𝓌𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓈𝒽𝑒 𝒾𝓈. 𝒲𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓈𝒽𝑒 𝒸𝑜𝓊𝓁𝒹 𝒷𝑒. 𝒴𝑜𝓊 𝓈𝒽𝑜𝓊𝓁𝒹 𝒸𝒶𝓁𝓁 𝒽𝑒𝓇 𝑀𝒶𝒿𝑒𝓈𝓉𝓎.” ❞ ·͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙ ✒️𓂃 ᴍᴏʀᴇ Qᴜᴏᴛᴇꜱ ɪ ʟᴏᴠᴇᴅ ❝𝐼 𝒶𝓂 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝑒𝓍𝒾𝓈𝓉𝓈 𝑜𝓃 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝑜𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇 𝓈𝒾𝒹𝑒 𝑜𝒻 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝒹𝒶𝓇𝓀. 𝐼’𝓂 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓅𝓊𝓉𝓈 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝒻𝑒𝒶𝓇 𝑜𝒻 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝑔𝑜𝒹𝓈 𝒾𝓃𝓉𝑜 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓂𝑜𝓃𝓈𝓉𝑒𝓇𝓈 𝓌𝒽𝑜 𝓌𝑜𝓊𝓁𝒹 𝑒𝒶𝓉 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒷𝑜𝓃𝑒𝓈 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝒶𝓁𝓁.❞ ❝𝐼’𝓋𝑒 𝓀𝓃𝑜𝓌𝓃 𝒻𝑜𝓇 𝒸𝑒𝓃𝓉𝓊𝓇𝒾𝑒𝓈 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓌𝑒𝓇𝑒 𝒸𝑜𝓂𝒾𝓃𝑔. 𝒯𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓌𝑒𝓇𝑒 𝒿𝓊𝓈𝓉 𝑔𝑜𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓉𝑜 𝓈𝒽𝑜𝓌 𝓊𝓅 𝑜𝓃𝑒 𝒹𝒶𝓎 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝒸𝒽𝒶𝓃𝑔𝑒 𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇𝓎𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓃𝑔. 𝒴𝑜𝓊’𝓇𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝒸𝒽𝒾𝓃𝓀 𝒾𝓃 𝓂𝓎 𝒶𝓇𝓂𝑜𝓇, 𝒮𝒶𝑒𝓇𝒾𝓈. 𝒯𝒽𝑒 𝓈𝑜𝒻𝓉 𝓈𝓅𝑜𝓉 𝓌𝒽𝑒𝓇𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓀𝓃𝒾𝒻𝑒 𝓈𝓁𝒾𝒹𝑒𝓈 𝒾𝓃.❞ ❝𝐼’𝓂 𝒶𝒷𝑜𝓊𝓉 𝓉𝑜 𝒾𝓃𝓉𝓇𝑜𝒹𝓊𝒸𝑒 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓉𝑜 𝒶𝓁𝓁 𝓈𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓃 𝑔𝑜𝒹𝓈. 𝒲𝒽𝑒𝓃 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓂𝑒𝑒𝓉 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓂, 𝒹𝑜𝓃’𝓉 𝒻𝑜𝓇𝑔𝑒𝓉 𝓉𝑜 𝓉𝑒𝓁𝓁 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓂 𝐼’𝓂 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝑜𝓃𝑒 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓌𝑜𝓇𝓈𝒽𝒾𝓅 𝑜𝓃 𝓎𝑜𝓊𝓇 𝓀𝓃𝑒𝑒𝓈.❞ ❝”𝐼’𝓂 𝒾𝓃 𝓁𝑜𝓋𝑒 𝓌𝒾𝓉𝒽 𝓎𝑜𝓊, 𝒮𝒶𝑒𝓇𝒾𝓈 𝐹𝒶𝓃𝑒,” 𝒽𝑒 𝓌𝒽𝒾𝓈𝓅𝑒𝓇𝑒𝒹 𝓆𝓊𝒾𝑒𝓉𝓁𝓎 𝒾𝓃𝓉𝑜 𝓂𝓎 𝒽𝒶𝒾𝓇. “𝒜𝓃𝒹 𝐼’𝓂 𝒶𝓁𝓇𝑒𝒶𝒹𝓎 𝒽𝒶𝓁𝒻-𝓂𝒶𝒹, 𝒶𝓃𝓎𝓌𝒶𝓎. 𝒲𝒽𝒶𝓉’𝓈 𝒶 𝓁𝒾𝓉𝓉𝓁𝑒 𝒸𝑜𝓂𝓅𝓁𝒾𝒸𝒶𝓉𝑒𝒹 𝓉𝒽𝓇𝑜𝓌𝓃 𝒾𝓃𝓉𝑜 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓂𝒾𝓍?”❞ ❝𝐹𝑒𝒶𝓇 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓈𝒽𝒶𝒹𝑜𝓌𝓈, 𝒷𝒾𝓉𝒸𝒽. 𝐼’𝓂 𝓂𝒶𝒹𝑒 𝑜𝒻 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓂.❞ ❝”𝒜𝓇𝑒 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓈𝒶𝒹 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒹𝑜𝓃’𝓉 𝑔𝑒𝓉 𝓉𝑜 𝒸𝒶𝓁𝓁 𝓂𝑒 𝐿𝒾𝓉𝓉𝓁𝑒 𝒪𝓈𝒽𝒶 𝒶𝓃𝓎𝓂𝑜𝓇𝑒?” 𝐼 𝒶𝓈𝓀𝑒𝒹. “𝐻𝓊𝓂𝒶𝓃, 𝐹𝒶𝑒, 𝑜𝓇 𝓋𝒶𝓂𝓅𝒾𝓇𝑒. 𝐼𝓉 𝒹𝑜𝑒𝓈𝓃’𝓉 𝓂𝒶𝓉𝓉𝑒𝓇 𝒽𝑜𝓌 𝓁𝑜𝓃𝑔 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓁𝒾𝓋𝑒, 𝒮𝒶𝑒𝓇𝒾𝓈; 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓌𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝒶𝓁𝓌𝒶𝓎𝓈 𝒷𝑒 𝓂𝑜𝓈𝓉 𝓈𝒶𝒸𝓇𝑒𝒹 𝓉𝑜 𝓂𝑒.”❞ ·͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙ ·͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚⁺‧͙ ⁺˚*•̩̩͙✩

re-read November 2025: can confirm it was just as incredible the second time around!!!! FIVE STARS 🌟 original review: what a ride 😅 wow ok where do i start?! this book had the PERFECT balance of romance and plot, it contained so many of my favourite tropes and all of them were executed EXQUISITELY!!!! the spice was SO GOOD and again for me had that perfect balance of not being so overdone that we lose interest. ok let’s talk about our two main characters; i am a sucker for a shadow daddy and let me tell you, kingfisher could possibly be my new favourite book boyfriend ever. he’s dark, moody, tortured and let’s not forget to mention the mouth on him, are you kidding me?! 😮‍💨😫👀🥵 i love that our fmc saeris was strong, bold and intelligent, often in romantasy i feel like the fmc can be written in a way to make her come across weak or stupid 😐 this was not the case here and i am so happy for it! i will be thinking about this book for a long time 🥹

2025 reread: This was a slightly different experience from the first time I read it, I still liked it but didn’t love it as much as the first time. I initially gave it 5⭐️ but its more like a 4.25⭐️ now 2024 first read: This is exactly what I want from fantasy romance! The fantasy elements were intriguing and ever growing, a combination of fae and vampires, a combo I didn’t know I needed in my life! The audiobook was sensational. I am definitely invested and not once was I bored! So excited for book 2!

Screaming. Crying. Throwing uppppp. Kicking my feet. Giggling. Smiling. then straight back to…Screaming. Crying. Throwing uppppp. and repeat!!! This book was a rideeee and i’d like to get back on immediately please miss callie i need book 2 NOW!!

✩ 4.75 stars ✩ What to Expect: ➼ Forced Proximity ➼ Enemies-to-Lovers ➼ Morally Grey MMC ➼ Fated Mates ➼ Fae, Vampires & Witches ➼ Animal Side Kick ➼ First Person POV I had SO many people message me when I started reading this book. Half of the messages were from fans who were excited for me to read it and the other half were from people who didn’t get the hype. I’ve spent plenty of time in the second camp, so I totally understand where they’re coming from, but this time around, I’m so happy to be in the fan camp! Go ahead and give me a foam finger - number one Quicksilver hype girl here! 🙋🏼‍♀️ I’ve heard people claim that this is a copycat of ACOTAR, but I honestly don’t see that many similarities. The description of Kingfisher was probably the most obviously one, but I’m gonna be honest, I want ALL the MMC’s to look like that… tall, dark and handsome, isn’t that the universal standard anyway? 😅 The other obvious similarity was what happens to Saeris at the very end combined with them being mates, but if something like that didn’t happen, this story would eventually become a tragedy and I always want HEAs for my favorite characters. 🤷🏼‍♀️ I think it’s kind of a stretch to call this enemies-to-lovers, but they definitely had some incredible tension. It may not have always been obvious to her, but it was pretty clear to me that he always had her best interest at heart, even when he was acting like an asshole. Personality wise, Fisher is much more hard edged and mouthy than Rhysand. I rarely like pet names, his endearment for Saeris really worked for me. His reason for calling her Little Osha was so sweet! 🥹💗 I honestly ate this up! I put off reading this for a long time because I was worried it wouldn’t be as good as everyone said it was and I’m so happy it lived up to the hype (for me). Cannot wait for book two! Good luck to my family trying to communicate with me on Thanksgiving weekend when I have the sequel in my hands. 😂 ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ Pre-read: Not to be dramatic, but if this isn’t good I might cry. 🫠 ≪ ◦ ❖ ◦ ≫ Connect with me on Instagram

This book was criminally, unbelievably good—a statement that stood true even after a reread. It was the perfect book to begin my 2025 reading journey. At the same time, I could kick myself for letting it sit on my shelf for months. I tend to get overwhelmed by the first book in a series, especially when the world-building feels too ambitious or the cast too crowded. But this novel strikes exactly the right balance between pacing, plot complexity, and character development. The author didn't overreach by cramming in unnecessary twists or an excess of characters. Instead, the story unfolded with confidence and clarity. The introduction of the gods and elemental lore toward the end felt deliberate, neatly laying the groundwork for the next installment without overshadowing the present narrative. The dialogue and banter were sharp, refreshing, and genuinely enjoyable to read. I’ll admit that I was completely distracted by Kingfisher, who effortlessly (and perhaps unfairly) stole the spotlight. Still, I’m eager to spend more time with Renfis, Everlayne, Lorreth, Carrion, and sweet little Osha in the next book. And maybe—just maybe—a budding romance between Ren and Layne? Lorreth’s storyline, in particular, deeply moved me; his courage and quiet strength added emotional weight to the story. I’m especially curious about Kingfisher’s real name and that Carrion Swift cliffhanger—I absolutely did not see that coming. If anything, it promised even more compelling developments ahead. I can’t wait for what’s coming next. 🍁🍂 Kingfisher of the Ajun Gate. What an amazing male who quietly sacrificed for everyone he loves 💔❤️‍🩹 Some of my favourite moments: 🗡️ When he confessed that Saeris was his mate. 🗡️ Where he was for the past hundred and ten years. Oh gods, that was heartbreaking. 🗡️ When he explained what Oshellith means. I swear my heart melted. Sighs. 🗡️ And that letter he wrote 🥹 “I have never been one to trust in the gods, but I choose to believe that all things come from the same place when life begins. I have hope that they return to the same place when it ends. I’ll be waiting for you there, Saeris Fane.” 🗡️ Tell Renfis that I'm sorry. That he was the standard that I always held myself to, and Yvelia would have been a better place if I was half as good as him. 🗡️ "I'll be grateful for every second that I can say that I belong to you, Saeris Fane. Eighty years or eighteen hours. It doesn't matter to me. It'll still be the highest honor of my life." 🗡️"If it were up to me, we wouldn't spend another night without each other again." 🗡️"I'm in love with you, Saeris Fane," he whispered quietly into my hair. "And I'm already half-mad, anyway. What's a little complicated thrown into the mix?" 🗡️ The revenge he swore he would exact on Madra at Gillethrye. "You spayed my mate when she was a fucking child," he seethed. "For that alone, I'll make your undying existence an unending agony. An eternity of suffering the likes of which even your evil cannot comprehend. You'll know no peace at my hands. I will destroy your empire and erase your name from the annals of time. When I am done with your legacy, Madra the Undying will never have existed. And you'll live on at my behest, suffering for all of eternity." 🗡️ I sobbed. The name he gave me, the name I hated, was a declaration of what I meant to him even then.

Get the audiobook, just do it 🤭

"It's under the most unbearable conditions that the sharpest, most dangerous weapons are forged" We follow our FMC, Saeris, through a magic portal that transports her into a fae kingdom that is at war. She needs to figure out how to embrace her new alchemy magic in order to stop the war and find her way home. Hello, found family, unique magic system, plot twists, and our shadow daddy Kingfisher! The slow-burn enemies-to-lovers romance will have you kicking your feet. You can FEEL the tension radiating off the pages, and when it heats up, it gets HOT🥵 “If I were evil and using your oath for my own purposes, I'd order you onto your knees for me,” THIS MAN "Ruin me" This book is for you, if you love: ⚔️Enemies to lovers 🖤Banter with all the tension 🔥Grumpy x Grumpy, slow burn romance 🖤Found family & hilarious side characters (Carrion has my heart) 🌶️Fated mates & Spice ⚔️Political Intrigue 🖤Single POV Special mention to the side character Carrion, his cocky & witty banter was everything! "Eh, I love a girl with a sharp tongue and a bad attitude. kinda makes my Di*& hard" & "It looks like a Simon" Never have I laughed so hard. I am going to be unwell until book 2 comes out!! *Edit, congratulations Callie on getting picked up by a publisher!!🎉 **Edit WE ARE GETTING A MOVIE ?! OH MY GOD!! 🤯

If you could only read one Faerie romantasy in your life, make it Quicksilver. This book was stunning, a work of written art—with intricate twists and hidden depths. I slipped into it like Saeris slipped into the Quicksilver pool. Callie, where is the next book??? I need more Carrion. And Kingfisher and Lorreth.

4.5⭐️ rtc!! too tired to write one rn

*changes to 5 ⭐️on re-read*** holy hell, kingfisher in this did things to my ovaries in this audiobook, saeris was meh (it's a me problem with female audiobook voices, they always sounds more whiney in the audiobook versions) but the whole book was so fucking good!! NOW I CAN READ BRIMSTONE!! rating 4.75 ⭐️ I think this book has all the best fantasy tropes that make a good romantasy (in my opinion) it’s hard to kind of think outside the box with fantasy because a lot of tropes/fae has been done. From the start of this book I was literally so invested. I was able to imagine the world and how it looked and honestly the magic system/fantasy aspects were easy to follow. It was just so new and exciting. Every time I put the book down I wanted to pick it right back up. ⋆.˚🦋༘⋆ Kingfisher ⋆.˚🦋༘⋆ This shadow daddy fae of a man. His filthy mouth had me SAT so hard. He was so funny and his banter was impeccable. He of course has his issues d/t some deep rooted trauma, and just doesn’t want to let anyone close to him. It’s always the men with the tortured soul complex that I fall the hardest for, But when I say this man is OBSESSED WITH THIS GIRL. 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻 on my knees good sir. ⋆.˚🦋༘⋆ Saeris ⋆.˚🦋༘⋆ She’s a badass FMC who fights her own battles and honestly doesn’t really take shit from people (besides kingfisher) I love how her and fisher push back and forth and have insults thrown at each other left and right and she’s just giving it right back. She definitely has a backbone and I love that about her. She is an alchemist (someone who can channel silver) I just find her rare ability so cool and fresh, and haven’t seen it done (yet) She cares deeply about the people she loves and will do just about anything for them. She’s brave and witty and strong and everything I want in a FMC જ⁀➴ The romance I think the romance in this was top tier. It had all the right elements to make you absolutely fall in love right along with them. It was a decent slow burn nothing crazy) but enough tension to make you WANT THEM KISS ALREADY. I love when the tension snaps and then the MMC because crazed obsessed. The Spice was so freaking good and they had insane chemistry 🔥🔥🔥 જ⁀➴ The ending I’m gonna drop this down to a 4.75 d/t the ending. (i loved it) but i was expecting something CRAZYYYY like insane and maybe im just use to SJM endings so im kinda expecting something wild the last 100 pages and while the ending was intense it didn’t have me gripping my kindle so hard that it was going to break in half intense, or you know when it’s so good, you’re laying down in bed and immediately have to sit up because your ancy, anxious and sweating ? yeah i needed that to give this a 5 ⭐️ I have a feeling the second book is going to be batshit crazy so i’m not really mad about it all. Tropes ♡ fated mates ♡ shadow daddy fae ♡ tortured soul ♡ vampires/witches/fae ⋆｡ﾟ☁︎｡⋆｡ ﾟ☾ ﾟ｡⋆ ⋆｡ﾟ☁︎｡⋆｡ ﾟ☾ ﾟ｡⋆ ⋆｡ﾟ☁︎｡⋆｡ ﾟ☾ ﾟ｡⋆ ⋆｡ﾟ☁︎｡⋆｡ ﾟ☾ ﾟ｡⋆ My fav quotes “𝓕𝓸𝓻 𝓽𝓱𝓸𝓼𝓮 𝔀𝓱𝓸 𝓵𝓲𝓿𝓮 𝓽𝓱𝓮𝓲𝓻 𝓷𝓲𝓰𝓱𝓽𝓶𝓪𝓻𝓮𝓼 𝓼𝓸 𝓽𝓱𝓪𝓽 𝓸𝓽𝓱𝓮𝓻𝓼 𝓶𝓪𝔂 𝓱𝓪𝓿𝓮 𝓽𝓱𝓮𝓲𝓻 𝓭𝓻𝓮𝓪𝓶𝓼” “𝓘 𝓭𝓸𝓷'𝓽 𝓱𝓪𝓽𝓮 𝔂𝓸𝓾𝓻 𝓴𝓲𝓷𝓭. 𝓘'𝓶 𝓳𝓾𝓼𝓽 𝓭𝓲𝓼𝓪𝓹𝓹𝓸𝓲𝓷𝓽𝓮𝓭 𝓫𝔂 𝓱𝓸𝔀 𝓫𝓻𝓮𝓪𝓴𝓪𝓫𝓵𝓮 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓪𝓻𝓮. 𝓘𝓯 𝓘 𝓱𝓮𝓵𝓭 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓭𝓸𝔀𝓷 𝓪𝓷𝓭 𝓯𝓾𝓬𝓴𝓮𝓭 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝔀𝓪𝔂 𝓘'𝓶 𝓲𝓶𝓪𝓰𝓲𝓷𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝓯𝓾𝓬𝓴𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓻𝓲𝓰𝓱𝓽 𝓷𝓸𝔀, 𝓘 𝓭𝓸𝓾𝓫𝓽 𝓽𝓱𝓪𝓽 𝔂𝓸𝓾’𝓭 𝓼𝓾𝓻𝓿𝓲𝓿𝓮 𝓲𝓽.” “𝓣𝓱𝓪𝓽 𝔂𝓸𝓾𝓻 𝓫𝓸𝓭𝔂 𝓲𝓼 𝓫𝓮𝓽𝓻𝓪𝔂𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓲𝓷 𝓸𝓽𝓱𝓮𝓻 𝔀𝓪𝔂𝓼. 𝓣𝓱𝓪𝓽 𝓘 𝓬𝓪𝓷 𝓼𝓶𝓮𝓵𝓵 𝔂𝓸𝓾, 𝓛𝓲𝓽𝓽𝓵𝓮 𝓞𝓼𝓱𝓪, 𝓪𝓷𝓭 𝓘'𝓶 𝓽𝓱𝓲𝓷𝓴𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝓪𝓫𝓸𝓾𝓽 𝓭𝓻𝓲𝓷𝓴𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓼𝔀𝓮𝓮𝓽 𝓷𝓮𝓬𝓽𝓪𝓻 𝔂𝓸𝓾'𝓻𝓮 𝓶𝓪𝓴𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝓯𝓸𝓻 𝓶𝓮 𝓼𝓽𝓻𝓪𝓲𝓰𝓱𝓽 𝓯𝓻𝓸𝓶 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓯𝓾𝓬𝓴𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝓬𝓾𝓹.” “𝓣𝓱𝓮𝓻𝓮'𝓼 𝓮𝓿𝓮𝓻𝔂 𝔀𝓪𝔂,” 𝓕𝓲𝓼𝓱𝓮𝓻 𝓻𝓾𝓶𝓫𝓵𝓮𝓭, 𝓱𝓲𝓼 𝓮𝔂𝓮𝓼 𝓭𝓪𝓻𝓴𝓮𝓷𝓲𝓷𝓰. “𝓘'𝓭 𝓴𝓷𝓸𝔀 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓼𝓶𝓮𝓵𝓵 𝓸𝓯 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓪𝓷𝔂𝔀𝓱𝓮𝓻𝓮. 𝓞𝓷 𝓪𝓷𝔂𝓸𝓷𝓮. 𝓘'𝓭 𝓴𝓷𝓸𝔀 𝓲𝓽 𝓫𝓵𝓲𝓷𝓭 𝓪𝓷𝓭 𝓲𝓷 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓭𝓪𝓻𝓴. 𝓐𝓬𝓻𝓸𝓼𝓼 𝓪 𝓯𝓾𝓬𝓴𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝓼𝓮𝓪. 𝓘'𝓭 𝓫𝓮 𝓪𝓫𝓵𝓮 𝓽𝓸 𝓼𝓬𝓮𝓷𝓽 𝔂𝓸𝓾—” “𝓑𝓮𝓬𝓪𝓾𝓼𝓮 𝓼𝓱𝓮 𝓲𝓼 𝓶𝓸𝓸𝓷𝓵𝓲𝓰𝓱𝓽. 𝓣𝓱𝓮 𝓶𝓲𝓼𝓽 𝓽𝓱𝓪𝓽 𝓼𝓱𝓻𝓸𝓾𝓭𝓼 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓶𝓸𝓾𝓷𝓽𝓪𝓲𝓷𝓼. 𝓣𝓱𝓮 𝓫𝓲𝓽𝓮 𝓸𝓯 𝓮𝓵𝓮𝓬𝓽𝓻𝓲𝓬𝓲𝓽𝔂 𝓲𝓷 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓪𝓲𝓻 𝓫𝓮𝓯𝓸𝓻𝓮 𝓪 𝓼𝓽𝓸𝓻𝓶. 𝓣𝓱𝓮 𝓼𝓶𝓸𝓴𝓮 𝓽𝓱𝓪𝓽 𝓻𝓸𝓵𝓵𝓼 𝓪𝓬𝓻𝓸𝓼𝓼 𝓪 𝓫𝓪𝓽𝓽𝓵𝓮𝓯𝓲𝓮𝓵𝓭 𝓫𝓮𝓯𝓸𝓻𝓮 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓴𝓲𝓵𝓵𝓲𝓷𝓰 𝓼𝓽𝓪𝓻𝓽𝓼. 𝓨𝓸𝓾 𝓱𝓪𝓿𝓮 𝓷𝓸 𝓲𝓭𝓮𝓪 𝔀𝓱𝓪𝓽 𝓼𝓱𝓮 𝓲𝓼. 𝓦𝓱𝓪𝓽 𝓼𝓱𝓮 𝓬𝓸𝓾𝓵𝓭 𝓫𝓮. 𝓨𝓸𝓾 𝓼𝓱𝓸𝓾𝓵𝓭 𝓬𝓪𝓵𝓵 𝓱𝓮𝓻 𝓜𝓪𝓳𝓮𝓼𝓽𝔂. “𝓝𝓸𝓫𝓸𝓭𝔂 𝔀𝓲𝓵𝓵 𝓮𝓿𝓮𝓻 𝓯𝓾𝓬𝓴 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝔀𝓪𝔂 𝓘'𝓶 𝓪𝓫𝓸𝓾𝓽 𝓽𝓸 𝓯𝓾𝓬𝓴 𝔂𝓸𝓾, 𝓢𝓪𝓮𝓻𝓲𝓼 𝓕𝓪𝓷𝓮. 𝓘'𝓶 𝓪𝓫𝓸𝓾𝓽 𝓽𝓸 𝓲𝓷𝓽𝓻𝓸𝓭𝓾𝓬𝓮 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓽𝓸 𝓪𝓵𝓵 𝓼𝓮𝓿𝓮𝓷 𝓰𝓸𝓭𝓼. 𝓦𝓱𝓮𝓷 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝓶𝓮𝓮𝓽 𝓽𝓱𝓮𝓶, 𝓭𝓸𝓷'𝓽 𝓯𝓸𝓻𝓰𝓮𝓽 𝓽𝓸 𝓽𝓮𝓵𝓵 𝓽𝓱𝓮𝓶 𝓘'𝓶 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓸𝓷𝓮 𝔂𝓸𝓾 𝔀𝓸𝓻𝓼𝓱𝓲𝓹 𝓸𝓷 𝔂𝓸𝓾𝓻 𝓴𝓷𝓮𝓮𝓼.” “𝓘'𝓶 𝓲𝓷 𝓵𝓸𝓿𝓮 𝔀𝓲𝓽𝓱 𝔂𝓸𝓾, 𝓢𝓪𝓮𝓻𝓲𝓼 𝓕𝓪𝓷𝓮,” 𝓱𝓮 𝔀𝓱𝓲𝓼𝓹𝓮𝓻𝓮𝓭 𝓺𝓾𝓲𝓮𝓽𝓵𝔂 𝓲𝓷𝓽𝓸 𝓶𝔂 𝓱𝓪𝓲𝓻. “𝓐𝓷𝓭 𝓘'𝓶 𝓪𝓵𝓻𝓮𝓪𝓭𝔂 𝓱𝓪𝓵𝓯- 𝓶𝓪𝓭, 𝓪𝓷𝔂𝔀𝓪𝔂. 𝓦𝓱𝓪𝓽'𝓼 𝓪 𝓵𝓲𝓽𝓽𝓵𝓮 𝓬𝓸𝓶𝓹𝓵𝓲𝓬𝓪𝓽𝓮𝓭 𝓽𝓱𝓻𝓸𝔀𝓷 𝓲𝓷𝓽𝓸 𝓽𝓱𝓮 𝓶𝓲𝔁?” honorable mention Carrion babes if kingfisher wasn’t in this i’d fuck you, you funny cuteypatooty and thats the TEA ♡ RTC. I’m sick af and don’t have the energy but what a rockstar book. Lovedddd every minute of

This book kept me up until the sun was coming up this morning. No, I did not have to return it, and yes, I managed to nibble on some stone fruit and drink a lot of Diet Coke. From the outset I was a little curious about how Reacher landed in such trouble so early in a story. Unlike some of his adventures, where he is presented with clear rights and wrong, or obvious misfortunes of others, this book started out a bit differently. It worked out quite well. The assembled characters, both good and evil, takes us on an incredibly interesting ride. There are some curiosities. Due to my fear of spoilers, I will not go much into the initial situation that sets the rest of the story into motion. The story is different in how several players are misidentified by the ‘People in Charge,’ which is a puzzle in progress. As in most books, Reachers has a relationship with a woman he’s paired with, and, like himself, she’s got some issues. The plot~the criminal enterprise~ is fascinating, and the methods used to shut the thing down quite interesting. I see comments about how Reacher should have been unable to do much because of his injury, well doctored by a medic. I lean more toward the opinion that the method of stabilizing the wrist with the product used would likely allow him to do most of what he did with ease. First, he’s Reacher. Second, if the wrist is completely restricted, he’d be fairly OK. I have recent experience with this… The ending worked for me, and now that we are all safe, I will be able to sleep. My thanks to Delacorte Press, via NetGalley, for the advanced download copy for review purposes.

In Too Deep Andrew Child & Lee Child reviewed by Lou Jacobs readersremains.com | Goodreads Your next guilty pleasure has arrived. The voice of our beloved hero, Jack Reacher, lives on in another action-packed, suspenseful thriller penned with the emerging prominence of Andrew Child, with his older brother Lee taking a back seat. The torch is being successfully passed to Andrew, as Lee plans to retire. Reacher’s inimitable style of conflict resolution, complete with action and violence in support of the victim, continues to shine with mystery and intrigue. This novel can be devoured as a standalone, with the necessary backstory seamlessly laid in. Reacher awakens disoriented, shackled to a table, with an obvious broken right arm and no recollection of how he got there. He’s told that “they” suspect him of being an FBI agent. Upon waking, he is confronted by the leader of a crime organization. With his usual guile and skill, Reacher tricks Fletcher, overpowers him, and frees himself from the shackles. While attempting to escape, he meets Ivan Vidic, who offers his help and provides background on the situation. Vidic reveals that he wants to “jump ship” from this criminal enterprise, which has become a dangerous fiasco. What started as making copies of paintings for collectors has escalated into creating forgeries for unscrupulous art gallery owners. Under the new leadership of Fletcher, the operation has become more dangerous and violent, drawing the attention of the FBI. A previous member, O’Connell, was killed in a heist where a guard was unnecessarily murdered by their muscle, the psychotic Kane. Another member, Bowery, has gone missing while trying to retrieve a payment, and Gibson died in a car accident where Reacher was found at the scene, though he has no memory of what happened. Reacher also suspects Vidic isn’t telling him the full story. After escaping, Reacher learns through investigation and gathering information from Vidic that the criminal cabal has multiple planned activities. They are rushing to complete “the Russian job,” obtain the contents of a safe worth more than two million dollars, and sell a stolen document (referred to as “the Report”) to a foreign government, which will likely net them millions. As Reacher skillfully evades confrontation with the group, he teams up with an off-duty female detective, Knight. Her father was senselessly killed while working security, and she has a personal vendetta to either apprehend or kill Kane. With Reacher’s help, Knight begins to unravel the subtleties of this complex criminal plot. Knight proves to be a badass complement to Reacher’s “take-no-prisoners” violence. Once again, the Childs prove to be excellent storytellers, weaving together a complex and twisted tale with many surprise reveals as they steadily ratchet up the suspense and intrigue. Reacher delivers the expected action and violence, leading to a barn-burning denouement. I eagerly await the next thriller penned solely by Andrew Child. Thanks to NetGalley and Delacorte Press for providing an Uncorrected Proof in exchange for an honest review. .... Published at MysteryAndSuspenseMagazine.com ...

Haha, what can I say, just too damned short. I love Reacher. I can’t get enough of him. I almost don’t care about the storyline, I just love his ruggedness, his smartness, his ability to think through and see round the problems he faces. It’s quite nice when he meets or uses characters from other parts of his life like the FBI guy. Sort of roots the story in his timeline. Concussed and with a broken wrist he still takes on the bad guys and wins. He’s unapologetically brutal with bad guys. Gives no quarter. As it happens I like this story. The jeopardy was massive but that only became apparent towards the end. I feel like since the brother Child stated writing the narrative isn’t quite as taut. I thought there were a few inconsistencies and even in Reacher world some things done by characters where I was thinking ‘would they really do that’. But it’s clever and brutal and our hero doesn’t change or evolve. He is a monolith. Epic.

Good one.

Reacher strikes again. Heists, Feds, Gold, murder and mayhem. how can you go wrong. one of my favorite Childs books so far.

Sandford gets better and better with every book. I just love his novels...and this one is no exception. I've heard that some people have a problem with the ending, but I guess that they haven't read a Sandford book before. He's had similar endings in the past, and they haven't dimmed my appreciation or enjoyment. If anything, its increased it...because he's willing to break with convention and with formula and go rely on his storytelling instincts instead.

Okay, first a confession: I finally must admit it - Virgil Flowers is my literary crush. And Virgil, thank you very much, is very much a part of this one! The book is a blast. I loved our mystery, very much wanted everything to end up okay, and actually loved the true crime blogger thing - and this is a plot device I often hate! Expect a fast moving read, complex without being overly complicated, and just pure, plain fun. Ready for the next one!

Lucas Davenport #35 Lethal Prey is John Sandford at his best. The returning characters mesh perfectly and I enjoy their interplay. The plot was believable and held my interest to the very end. I look forward to his next book.

Lethal Prey is Book 35 in the Lucas Davenport series from John Davenport. "Twenty years after the unsolved murder of her sister, Doris, Lara Grandfelt has dumped all of the case files onto every true crime blog she can find. And she offering a $5 million reward to find the killer. Dozens of true-crime bloggers show up looking for evidence and clicks. Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers are called in to review anything that looks like a new lead. When a blogger finds the murder weapon, Lucas and Virgil start finding out more about the killer's identity. As they get closer to the truth, they become targets when the killer feels threatened." Sandford doesn't write who-done-its? You know who the killer is right away and Sandford lets you inside their psychopathic head. This is a typical Sandford fast-paced story. I flew through it. Sandford has both good and bad comments on the true-crime blogger community. A big no-no for me is that the story ends in a bit of a cliff hanger - maybe more that part of the story is not resolved. I want a book's story to have a definite ending. Still a great story from Sandford. Amazing that he can still find ways to keep a character fresh after 35 books.

In John Sandford's Lethal Prey, two of Sandford's longtime protagonists, Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers, once again join forces. Davenport, a U.S. Marshall, and Flowers, an agent with the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA), team up this time to tackle one of Minnesota's most difficult cold cases. When Doris Grandfelt was brutally murdered, the BCA investigation quickly reached a dead end. It could not be determined where Grandfelt had been murdered, and the BCA had been unable to locate the murder weapon or much evidence. Twenty years later, her twin sister, Lara Grandfelt, wanted answers. She posted copies of the files from the cold case on true-crime sites and offered the true-crime bloggers a 5 million dollar reward. Lucas and Virgil began reconsidering the cold case from the small amount of evidence originally collected by the BCA. With help from some of the bloggers, Lucas and Virgil slowly pieced together what had happened to Doris - and a great deal more. The explosion of information that they uncovered also brought an increased threat from a dangerous, cold, and calculating killer. I am a huge and longtime fan of Sandford's work. And by joining Lucas and Virgil together on this cold case, Sandford does not disappoint. This book seems different from earlier Lucas and Virgil books - there aren't as many bullets flying around, and the ending is "unusual" (for Sandford). Nonetheless, by focusing on a cold case, incorporating true-crime sites and bloggers, and adopting a new, "unusual" ending, it feels like Sandford is growing as a writer. And I, for one, am excited to follow Sandford on this journey. Lethal Prey is another Sandford blockbuster. Highly Recommended.

4.5 Stars Rounded Up. Another fantastic entry into the Prey series. One of the things that has always set this series apart is the fact that the bad guys are almost always really interesting. Here, we have a true psychopath of a woman that's a long time assistant district attorney from a neighboring county, not far from Lucas's home in Minnesota. Even though Lucas has been a Federal Marshall for several books now, having cases all over the country, here he and Virgil are put on a case close to home as partners in a joint State/Federal operation. As usual, the writing's great, the dialog between Lucas and Virgil is great, and of coarse the overall story is great. SOMEWHAT OF A SPOILER AHEAD: This book does end fairly abruptly and will be continued in the next book, which has never really happened within this series before. There have been a couple books with the same bad guy, but never has Sanford splil a story over multiple books. Even though it's to be continued, this book is still extremely entertaining, and I'm looking forward to the next book with serious enthusiasm. Highly recommend!

Davenport and Flowers come together to find out about murder that took place over 20 years ago. Why was the person killed. Why was her body left where it was. And did the person they think killed her really do it. In trying to solve this murder, the incorporate different tactics and allow others, untrained and innocent, to join in. A great thriller!

I really enjoy John Stanford’s writing style, the characters, the interplay between Lucas and Virgil, and how the pace of the stories increase from slow to rapid as the stories head towards their conclusion.

Virgil and Lucas team up again for a page turning chase of a serial killer. The twist in this one is using true crime podcasters to crowd source leads. I'm totally intrigued by podcasts and documentary programs about killers so this was perfect! Even after 35 books, there is more for story for Lucas and this cast!

the bridge of the archer: “they see right through me, can you see right through me? i see right through me”, encapsulates this book perfectly. the loneliness; the bargaining with the universe; being loved and loving people; the fear of growing up; the fear of the possibility of never being happy; the perpetual struggle between living for yourself and the people you love; the terror of being an unhappy place to the people who love you; the fear of a job or something so permanent in your life being the wrong choice; everything around you changing; the nostalgia for moments you can never get back. harriet and i mirror each other in so many ways, and reading it in words across a book made me feel so seen and comforted. this book is for the girls who worry and worry, worry if they’re good enough, worry if they’ve achieved enough, worry if they’re enough. worry if they love people too much, worry if they love people too little. worry if they’re a catalyst for something bad that happens. worry if they’re too temporary or maybe too permanent. who have nostalgic happy moments on a loop in their heads. who feel the loneliness more with people around them than when they’re alone. ⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻ this part contains spoilers “stupid, stupid, stupid heart. don’t you know he hasn't been yours to cry over for a long time?” “it’s this feeling like the universe is compacting around me while something in my rib cage is expanding. i’m the culmination of their lost dreams, their missed other lives, and at the same time, they’re proud of me.” “i sit on the edge of the bed, feeling the loneliness swell, not knowing whether it's pressing against me from the outside or growing from within. either way, it's inescapable, my oldest companion.” preface: i rated this book on a completely different scale from emily henry’s other books or romance books in general. the reason why i loved this book so much, was not the romance but harriet’s introspection and character. its tones were much more subtle and nuanced, much reminiscent of a lit fic in some parts. harriet and i are vastly different in personality. she is much more outgoing, warmer, and patient than i am. but our fears and anxieties clicked, which emily henry did such an excellent job of writing about. especially her description of loneliness—i think it might be my favorite part she's written. wyn was an interesting character to me because he seemed so unlike other male protagonists. he feels like alex in a way, but the way his emotions and thoughts are wired is different. weirdly, i still don’t believe that he and harriet fully understand the reason that they broke up or they didn’t work out. they talked about their feelings, but did they truly hear one another? or did their worst fears get in the way of truly unpacking it and instead just tried to bandage it up as quickly as possible to appease one another? wyn’s constant need to feel loved or feel like he matters, and harriet’s constant fear that she will make people around her unhappy—i feel like it will eventually crash and burn again. wyn’s dad dying was a sort of superficial wound because it was an external circumstance/dent in their relationship. harriet quitting her job (although she was unhappy) also feels like a bit of an over-correction and a bandaid to the true problem. but i disregarded almost all of that during my read because of how much they love each other. it’s the first romance book i read where i could palpably feel how much and how desperately they love each other—not in an angsty or sexual way, but just how overwhelmingly they care about each other. and how intrinsically they understand each other (up until the aforementioned part). and also how they try their best to show that love in the way they think the other wants. the way wyn, in flashbacks, always reassures harriet that he will always love her. the way harriet represses all of her immense guilt so she can be the strong one for wyn. small gestures throughout the book that they are always trying to read and understand the other. that made this a very magical read, in a way. ⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻ this was literally AMAZING. i’ll be rereading again & writing a full review in a bit but all you have to know is that this has book lovers’ banter and beach read’s introspection. not so much a huge rom com like her other books but it’s much more mature and melancholy and UGH there are some passages i teared up at. 5/5 for the moment <3 thank you berkley for the arc!! ⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻ pre-read EMILY HENRY I WILL HIBERNATE UNTIL APRIL FOR YOU REALLY I SWEAR IT'S NO PROBLEM DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT

How does one write a five star review for Happy Place & hold back on unleashing a full on gush fest? I'm obsessed with this book. I could not help but find myself so invested in the relationship. It's broken & flawed, but I was rooting for them the whole time to find their way back to each other. Sort things out. Figure it out. MY HEART. The friendship group was so fun to follow and seeing how they supported each other was BEAUTIFUL. They all bring their flaws to the table without the fear of being judged, because they have trust that everyone will accept them regardless. That doesn't mean they're perfect, but they put in the work to keep their friendships in a solid place. I loved it. I loved it. I loved it. All the stars. ALL OF THEM. HAVE THEM ALL.

IN EVERY UNIVERSE!!!!!!!!!!!

emily henry wrote this for the right where you left me/champagne problems/the archer girlies (me) and she will be receiving my therapy bill

OH MY GOSH!!!!!! The queen, Emily Henry has delivered yet again with an amazing book. I thought Happy Place was going to be a cute, sweet, and fluffy romance, but boy was I wrong. Happy Place written by Emily Henry was such an emotional and heart breaking book. There were so many tears involved, the pain was truly right there. I mean, the title of the book is Happy Place, the cover is so cute and summer vibes, but don't let that fool you, this book was gut wrenching. Despite the painful memories we all have to endure while reading this book, it was so much fun, it was like the whole Goodreads community was doing a giant buddy read. I never wanted this book to end whatsoever, but damn, I loved every single minute of this heartfelt story. I was never once told this book was going to make me sob, so for those of you who haven't read it yet, here's your warning, Happy Place will make you SOB UNCONTROLLABLY. The last few chapters will truly put a dent in your heart, they were so painful, but they definitely gave me the closure I needed. It was like one minute I was giggling, and then the next minute I was gasping for a air, all on the same page. Happy Place was definitely one of my most anticipated 2023 reads. It was PHENOMENAL and absolutely DELIVERED!!!!!! "He's a golden boy. I'm a girl whose life has been drawn in shades of gray. I try not to love him. I really try." "He can't fathom that all my love for him didn't just vanish, the way his did for me. That it had to go somewhere, and funneling it into anger is how I've managed to make it through these last two days. It makes me feel alone. It makes me feel defeated". "I take a shuddering breath, square my shoulders, and get into the shower. Where I cry some more. Stupid, stupid, stupid heart. Don't you know he hasn't been yours to cry over for a long time?". "You're losing the love of your life because you're too indecisive to just pick a wedding date and a venue". "My best friends taught me a new kind of quiet, the peaceful stillness of knowing one another so well you don't need to fill the space. And a new kind of loud; noise as a celebration, as the overflow of joy at being alive, here and now". Where is your Happy Place? Harriet and Wyn have been the perfect couple since they met in college, they go together like peanut butter and jelly, honey and tea, but now for reasons they won't discuss, they don't belong together anymore. Harriet and Wyn were newly weds, but never had a formal wedding. Fast forward a little bit, Harriet and Wyn broke up six months ago and still haven't told their best friends. Harriet and Wyn decide to make a pact to pretend to still be together for their annual week long vacation with their best friends at the cottage in Maine that has been their happy place for so long. Harriet didn't expect to see Wyn at the cottage, but they later learn the cottage they have gone to for years is going up for sale, so Harriet and Wyn decide to lie through their teeth for the best friend's sake of having one last happy week at their happy place. Despite lying, Harriet and Wyn are trying not to notice how desperately they still want one another. Happy Place is told in a past tense and a now timeline. We get a glimpse of Harriet and Wyn when they first met, and how this group of best friends grew up together. Harriet is a people pleaser, she will tell her friends she's doing just fine and dandy when really she's struggling, because she wants to make sure everyone else around her is happy before she is. Harriet is a surgical resident who has lost love with her job, but she won't tell anyone because she doesn't want to let those down around her who have supported her for years. Harriet's parents sacrificed so much for her to be a surgeon, but when she doesn't find happiness waking up early and going to work, Harriet feels like telling her family and friends will drive them away from her. Wyn is a golden charmer who is dealing with the loss of his father. I absolutely loved hearing how Harriet and Wyn met, but it broke my heart when they were telling their story of why they broke up because they felt like they weren't good enough for each other, but they really never had a chance to sit down and talk about their issues, so the week long vacation at the cottage gave them plenty of time to talk to each other while playing their parts of the happy couple. I often find myself connecting on a personal level with Harriet, and making sure those around me are the happiest before myself. Knowing this is their last year at the cottage, Harriet and Wyn can't stand to break their best friend's hearts, so they decide to play their part of being the happy couple who has their who lives figured out. Harriet will be the surgical resident who never starts a fight with anyone, and Wyn will be the laid back charmer who never lets his cracks show. I loved this book more than anything, it felt like I was at the cottage in Maine with this group of best friends trying to figure out the true definition of what a best friend is. I will admit it was a little confusing when the story went back in time because you never really knew when and where they were, if that makes any sense. This group of friends was so wholesome, they fought like everyone does, but they never held grudges, they welcomed you with open arms, it was just so dang sweet. I can't recommend this book enough, if you love Emily Henry, you're definitely going to love love love Happy Place. I can't believe I finished this book already, but I don't think i'm ready for all the pain it brought on. Once again, don't let the cover and title fool you, this book will definitely destroy your heart.

”You are in all of my happiest places. You are where my mind goes when it needs to be soothed.” Angsty Perfection. Emotional Damage. Hopeful Second Chances. How is it possible to sum up your feelings on a book that you were sure wouldn’t be for you, but ended up being a guaranteed top read of the year instead? Let me explain. I’ve been reviewing books for many years now, and over time I’ve become more jaded with each new release that has an overwhelming hype train behind it. Typically, the pushy nature of READTHISBOOKPLZZZZZ that comes with a huge fan base tends to turn on my rebellious nature and make me want to not read it or like it even more. I cannot explain this phenomenon, nor do I defend it, but I have a feeling I’m not the only reviewer who tends to duck and run when hyped books are saturating every bit of your online footprint. Couple that with the fact that I like to try and champion books from either debut authors or without a large marketing budget behind them as often as possible (this is not a pat on the back, just a personal passion of mine), and I do not tend to fit in as many of the big books of the season that I used to. I managed to make it through Emily Henry’s first three releases without caving, but something about Happy Place caused me to rethink my decision, and I’m so grateful that I stopped being a stubborn turd and embraced this emotional journey. (Yes, I am now the proud owner of all four of EmHen’s adult releases.) So how did I come about requesting this book? Well, aside from the FOMO that had built continuously, the marketing of friends-to-lovers-to-enemies really got me, and the fact that this was being paraded as her angstiest book yet (I love a good tummy turmoil romance) sealed the deal. Also, the cover had nothing to do with it. Nope. Not at all. I thought I was getting a fun, summer romance that I’d enjoy, but would ultimately be forgettable in a sea of illustrated covers, but color me surprised when I discovered there was so much more here. ”Want is a kind of thief. It’s a door in your heart, and once you know it’s there, you’ll spend your life longing for whatever’s behind it.” I don’t think there are words to describe just how much this book means to me, or how relatable I found aspects of it, but I’ll try to convey here. It’s easy to perceive from the synopsis that this is a story or what was, what is, and what might be. We receive glimpses into the past that build Harry and Wyn’s friendship-turned-romance, and we also receive present tense pov where something has gone horribly wrong, but we’re not quite sure what that is. The tension of building up to that conversation (which actually is brilliantly more than one conversation) is DIVINE, and the havoc that Henry wreaked on my emotions along the way was sinister in the best way possible. Obviously the romance is swoons. The chemistry between Wyn and Harry is palpable, and the payoff after the pining throughout a good bit of the book is worth every bit of anxiety ridden, nail biting suspense. The journey that both characters go on together and individually is satisfying. But also? The dynamic and vibes between this group of six friends is something you can sink into. It’s what you desire if you don’t have it, and appreciate if you do. And it’s not perfect, not by a long shot. Everyone is flawed and has to work at keeping this group together. I also really found myself in Harry’s dynamic with her parents. As someone who, for years, carried a weight of feeling like I would not be enough if I didn’t make the most of my parent’s sacrifices, this aspect of the book, while small, absolutely wrecked me. I was a sobbing mess as I went full circle on this journey with Harriet, and I’m sitting here tearing up again as I write it now. Every single portion of this book is a hard earned happily ever after, which is just the way I like it. Maybe I’m a sellout now, but I’m definitely part of the EmHen fan club now, and I cannot wait to go and read her backlist while painfully waiting for the next book she writes. This book deserves every bit of hype that it has and will receive, and it gives me a glimmer of hope that I can still find that magical feeling of finding a new book that becomes a part of your soul, one that you carry with you on the rest of your journey here on earth and becomes part of your personality on a permanent basis. *Many thanks to the publisher for providing my review copy.

5 stars Ps: I wrote so many different versions of this review and still don’t think i did this book justice. ❛ " I think I love you, Harriet,” he says. "I know I love you, Wyn.” ❜ It is a truth universally acknowledged, that Emily Henry’s plume would transport you while reading with brillant words, sophisticated metaphors and complex characters poetically broken. However, the plume was subtly substituted in 'Happy Place' by a bitter, realistic and mature writing. Be aware that the book, characters’ flaws and their "Dark Places" will either resonate with you or will be hard to empathize with. In other words, you’ll either *love it and hate it at the same time* or just feel apathetic towards it. "The only way I can bear loving anyone this much is knowing it will never turn to poison. Knowing we’ll give each other up before we can destroy each other.” The narrative was melancholically swaying between two distinct timelines; divided between past chapters "Happy Place", "Dark Place" that retraced poignantly Harriet and Wyn’s love story from the very cute start until the culminant point(s) that broke them appart and "Real life" chapters that translated resentfully how both of them were trapped after they broke up 5 months before in a week vacation with their best-friends who accessory didn’t know about their separation. Their only choice was to fake being together but how blurred the lines can become when they had already eight long years of practice? "You’ve spent months trying to forget what you’re missing, I tell myself. How will you survive being reminded? Living the loss of it all over again?" Harriet was a contradictory but yet understandable character. The way she was painted as not only a brillant neurological chirurgien but as a woman, a broken one, was one of the most lovable and relatable aspect of the storytelling. She wasn’t portrayed as a passionate workaholic who loved her job, she wasn’t stereotyped with one and only one part of her personality. With her character Emily Henry highlighted how people can be complex in such beautiful and painful ways, that their personalities can be nuanced with infinity of colores. She explained gracefully how achieving your goals and purposes in life doesn’t specially rhythm with happiness. " I wanted to be special, Harriet,” he says. “And since I wasn’t, I settled for trying to make everyone love me. I know how ridiculous that sounds, but it’s true. I spent my whole life chasing things and people who could make me feel like I mattered." Wyn’s personage was pretty simple to capture and dissect from the very first chapters. The "way" he did what he did was —to my opinion—transparent and cristal clear but to excuse and compassionate with him and his individual choices the last chapters were really helpful and emotionally draining. "Our love is a place we can always come back to, and it will be waiting, the same as it ever was. You belong here." Every touch, every word had its own importance in the way their relationship flourished and tarnished. Their love had an elegiac tone in how Harriet was describing the "lose" of the love of her life in the present chapters and an eternal essence in how their love seemed unbreakable in the past chapters. Both of the them where in "Dark Palces" at the end of their relationship. So how can you save a ship when both captains have already drowned? "The irony of it all strikes me then: working so hard to earn their love and pride, and it’s brought me no closer to them. If anything, I think maybe it’s kept them at a distance." The book didn’t aboard only one traditional meaning of "love in crisis"; the storyline balanced with friends and family love-problems. It embraced some touchy and moving aspects of the word. For exemple, how adulthood can dig an abyss between longtime friends; how lies and secrets can break trust and finally, how resentment and an avid want of money might wreck a family. ~•~•~•~ Quote : So many, and i don’t even think i joined the review with the most pertinent ones😭 "He looks too earnest, too lost, like he’s desperately trying to understand. Like he can’t fathom that all my love for him didn’t just vanish, the way his did for me. That it had to go somewhere, and funneling it into anger is how I’ve managed to make it through these last two days. It makes me feel alone. It makes me feel defeated" "I can’t help but think he doesn’t look any happier than I feel." "So many of his details are slightly different, but my heart still sees him and whispers into my veins, You." "Home, I think. That’s new. But it’s not. It’s been growing there for a while, this new room in my heart, this space just for Wyn that I carry with me everywhere I go." " I am in that phase of love where you’re sure no two people have ever felt this way before." "It wasn’t that he was angry. It wasn’t that he didn’t trust me. He just didn’t want me anymore." "He was never yours to keep, and deep down you knew that. I watched him fade from me, bit by bit, day by day, a mirage receding into nothingness." « The silence leaves too much room for questions, for memories to vine around me, hold me captive. » "I would’ve done anything to bring you back to me for one last minute." "I’ve memorized the rhythm of his breathing when he sleeps and the smell of his skin when he’s been out in the sun, and I know when he’s afraid." "Want is a kind of thief. It’s a door in your heart, and once you know it’s there, you’ll spend your life longing for whatever’s behind it " "And it feels like taking a shot of tequila every time I hear it. Like I could get drunk on the sound of you. Or hungover when I go too long without you." " I was afraid they’d ask me what went wrong, and no matter what answer I cobbled together from the rubble, they’d see right through it. They’d know I wasn’t enough." ~~~~~ I wanted to play it cool and only say "ouh me gad, everyone lied to me this is not a contemporary romance but a freaking elegy poem" but im not cool and i need to pour my heart out so rtc ———— ctr: the way the title is literally HAPPY PLACE but everyone is sobbing and sad IS MAKING ME HELLA SCARED🥲 Buddy read with Rae, mama vee and vio🤭 ———— tbr: J -4 🥳 but it feels like everyone already read it

“That’s not what I‘m saying,” Wyn says, his voice gravelly. “I’m not accusing you of anything! I’m trying to ask …” “Trying to ask what, Wyn?” I demand. “If you’re happy,” he says. “I want to know that you’re happy too.” Now it’s my turn to stare at him in disbelief. He still wants absolution. And what can I say? That I’m not happy? That I’ve tried dating someone else and it was the emotional equivalent of bingeing on saltines when all I wanted was a real meal? Or that there are whole parts of the city I avoid because they remind me of those first few months in California, when he still lived with me. That when I wake up too early to my screaming alarms, I still reach toward his side of the bed, like if I can hold on to him for a minute, it won’t be so hard to make it through another grueling day at the hospital, in a never-ending series of grueling days. That I still wake from dreams of his head between my thighs, and reach for my phone whenever something particularly ridiculous happens in the cozy mystery I’m reading, only to remember I can’t tell him. That I spend more time trying not to think about him than actually thinking about anything. All that heady nostalgia and sweltering lust has become combustible, erupting into anger. “Yes, Wyn,” I say. “I’m happy.” If book called “Happy Place” then why am I sad. Dearest Goodreads community, we have gathered here today for one of those rare occasions where you watch me fail write a five star review. My favourite romance trope is second chance. To be honest it’s the only valid one. There’s just so much opportunity for ANGST and SADNESS and PURE PAIN. Starting a new relationship? Get out of here. BORING. But the deep intimacy of your ex-partner coming into your life again, someone you just KNOW by heart because they used to be YOURS and YOURS alone and involuntarily remembering all the little things about them and the moments you used to share and realizing, maybe not for the first time but for the first time with a vengeance, that you have loved and you have lost and that they aren’t yours anymore and probably never will be again but maybe, just maybe… maybe there’s still something there. Maybe that something has never left. GOOD SHIT!!!! Can you taste it, can you smell it, this delicious pain … ah, truly makes my heart go faster and then stop and go faster again (maybe see a cardiologist, Jonathan). This book is Emily Henry at her best. It’s romance at its best. This is everything I want from a book: five hours of pure sobbing and water damage to my copy from my own fucking tears. Throwing the book across the room because the emotions are overflowing. THIS is why I read. Why would I ever read for anything less? april reading: 22/26 --- second chance!!! second chance!!! second chance!!!! Emily Henry finally writing the best trope romance literature has to offer!!!

lets pretend i wrote a really good, long, thought provoking review here ok? ok thx

this book is my happy place. do not be fooled by the title because this book is painful. It made my insides shimmer and completely consumed every fiber of my being. I want it tattooed on my skin, etched on my tombstone, and injected in my veins. IT HAS: - one-bed trope - second chance trope - found family trope - fake dating trope (ex fiances pretending to still be in a relationship) - the best character dynamics - friends to lovers - single POV - past and present periods (happy place and real life) - most importantly, HEA - The amount of Taylor Swift songs that you can relate to every situation is insane! It was one of my most anticipated reads this year and I know I will love it the moment I read the synopsis. I thought I was prepared but how can I forget that I can never be prepared when it comes to Emily's books? You probably do not believe me anymore because I say this every time Emily Henry releases a book but BELIEVE ME WHEN I SAY THIS IS HER BEST ONE YET. HER BEST COUPLE. BEST CHARACTERS. BEST WRITING. BEST EVERYTHING. THE WRITING: I love the way it was told in two different periods: Happy place (past) and real life (present). In her happy place, I loved how it featured Harriet's happiness from different angles/periods. from the moment she met her best friends, leading to the moment she met Wyn, up to the moment he proposed and I fucking loved seeing that she found her happiness in these people. it also gave more depth to the characters and it helped me understand what they have been through together after all those years. it was a mix of beach read and book lovers. and for someone who cried so hard for the former and laughed a lot for the latter, you can conclude that this book made me feel a rollercoaster of emotions. I cannot even begin to describe it but I will try my best. AND YES, I WILL BE SENDING EMILY HENRY MY THERAPY BILLS. SKIP THIS PART BECAUSE THERE WILL BE SPOILERS. please note that the quotes I used below are subject to change as this is an advance readers copy THE SETTING: Knott's Harbour. This place is so magical and alive. It was so wonderfully described that it almost felt like I am also transported to the cottage at Knott's Harbour. I loved reading about the place that made them strengthen their bonds even more. It was their happy place. THE CHARACTERS: Harriet: This book was told from Harriet's perspective and I loved getting inside her head. I can see myself so much in Harriet. If I can summarize her using Taylor Swift songs, I would pick this is me trying, labyrinth, mirrorball, and the archer. That being said, I deeply resonated with her. Her fears, thoughts, and vulnerabilities are so real and raw. I also loved the way she came to realize that everyone around her will love her no matter what. "You see the best in everyone, and you make the people you love feel like even their flaws are worth appreciating." I loved that in the end, she had the bravery to choose something that she loved doing. It was far from safe, but it made her happy. "I want my life to be like making pottery. I want to enjoy it while it's happening, not just for where it might get me eventually." I hope I'll also have the strength to do that. Wyn: "I thought I made you. Just by wishing." Wyn is probably one of the best male main characters I have ever read. He is far from perfect and he's not without flaws but that made him more lovable. His vulnerability, insecurities, and fears alongside his adorableness are what made him Wyn. "I'm not going to stop fighting for you, Harriet. I'm not going to stop loving you." The way he loves is so unconditional and he gives them his all. He is also extremely talented and caring, 100% in love with him. I'm not gonna lie, I kind of disliked the way he handled their breakup but I understood that he needed it. He needs to grow on his own and handle his insecurities. Harriet and Wyn: him: I never fit there. her: you fit with me, and I was there. him: I know, I think that's really why I went. To find you. If I were to define soulmates, it is without a doubt these two.. in every universe. Reading their story felt like I was being stabbed multiple times. Their story is so real and raw in every sense and my heart physically clenches like it was being squeezed while I was reading both their past and present. The moment they met, I knew that they will be my favorite couple. Not in a sense that they are perfect, but in a sense that they were so real. "in every universe, it's you for me. Even if it's not me for you." The moment they met in Knott's Harbour is just soooo good. I felt the chemistry and everything just clicked into place. They spent years together, absolutely in love and their relationship felt so strong nothing could ever ruin it. "You have the weirdest laugh of anyone I've ever met, Harriet. Like I could get drunk on the sound of you. Or hungover when I go too long without you." I think that was the hardest part in reading this book: how I knew that they were made for each other but sometimes, there are some circumstances where you love each other so much but you needed to be apart because you are already dragging each other down. I do think that they could've still made it work but sometimes, a fresh start is all you need. Sabrina, Parth, Cleo, and Kimmy: It doesn't matter how busy life's been, how long the five of us have gone without seeing each other: meeting at the cottage is like pulling on a favorite sweatshirt, worn to perfection. Their group of friends (family) fits together perfectly. Every person in their group of friends has a very strong character and they still made it work. I love a good found family story and I really enjoyed how their friendship evolved over the years. They have been friends for 10 years so I can say that they have witnessed each others' worst moments, successes, and everything in between. That being said, I love the way Emily Henry was able to really explore the topic of friendship. Of course, we all change as we grow but I loved the way they can always make room for each other. Our love is a place we can always come back to, and it will be waiting, the same as it ever was I CANNOT WAIT FOR YOU ALL TO READ THIS AND LOVE IT SO MUCH IT PHYSICALLY HURTS. Thank you Penguin Random House International and Emily Henry for providing an eArc in exchange for an honest review ps. chapter 29, 73% in, will forever make you cry

happy place is emily henry's fourth adult romance novel and her first dip into the second chance romance trope - and it definitely delivers. happy place follows harriet and wyn, ex-fiancés who have to pretend to still be together so they don’t ruin their last holiday with their group of best friends. quite early on as i was reading, i thought that happy place feels like all of emily henry's books mixed together, in the best way - and i still stand by that. in terms of structure, happy place is more similar to people we meet on vacation, flipping between the past and present tense as the story unfolds. in terms of style and theme, it feels more similar to beach read and book lovers, with the emotional depth particularly reminiscent to that in beach read (i know some people don’t like it when you compare all of an author’s books, but i think it’s interesting to see which aspects they pluck out from their past works) while happy place has henry’s trademark charm and light, easy-going writing style, there is a feeling of melancholy laced throughout. it feels less of a rom-com, and more of a slow-burn, thoughtful exploration of growing pains and navigating all the love you can experience in life - both romantic and platonic. in fact, the friendship love and the theme of found family is probably the most prominent love story here. but of course it’s emily henry, so the romance is still incredible, and personally i felt like it was the most touching of her books so far, you could really feel how deeply these characters love and care for one another. i don’t want to say to much because i don’t want to spoil anything, but if you’ve loved any of emily henry's previous romance novels - you’ll love this one too. --------------- Emily Henry truly never misses. i'm not going to post a full review until closer to the release date, but for now i'll say that happy place feels like all of emily henry's books mixed together, in the best way.

4.75✩ MISS EMILY HENRY. I’LL SEND U THE THERAPY BILLS. At this point it’s no surprise that Emily Henry made me sob like a baby, because it isn’t the first time (and it definitely won’t be the last). This truly was a mix of her other books and I loved how she chose to create side characters in this book who leave a mark on you as well. Wyn and Harriet. Soulmates. My heart broke for them and so did my eyes (BECAUSE HELLO THE TEARS?!?!!!). Let me just say that the therapy bills are going to be 🔝♾️ I love Emily Henry. I fucking love her.

I don’t think Emily Henry is capable of writing a bad book. Or a book that DOESN’T make you cry. Every FMC she writes makes you feel like someone took a magnifying glass into your brain and stole your deepest thoughts and put them on paper. Her writing style genuinely brings me to my KNEES. I need more!!!!

Rereading my fave Emily Henry book to cure my stress levels 🥰 ——— It makes me so happy this book won romance of the year I own 4 different copies of it 😭 I'll have to do a re-read soon!! __________________ Update 28/06/2023: Easily one of the best reads of the year. Cried and laughed through most of the book. Emily writes so beautifully, i feel like this book will stay with me for awhile. Never wanted it to end.. A must read!

I never thought I’d say this, but I LOVED everything about this book. It spoke to my soul. I thought Emily Henry wasn’t for me, but I just hadn’t found the right one. Happy Place was definitely the one 🩷

Am I surprised I gave another Emily Henry book a 5? No, not at all. She writes these amazing characters and relationships and they are swoony & deep all at the same time. I related to so many characters in this book. Harriet for fear of letting people down, Sabrina as the organizer and the glue that tries to hold a friendship together. This book made me want to go to Maine to lobster fest and take a boat ride and fall in love.

This book was EVERYTHING! If you need a 5 star read that gives you all the feels, has duel timelines and follows the evolution of best friendships look no further. Where is your Happy Place?

I haven’t loved a book this much in so long. My heart is so full rn I love everything about this book. It was absolutely perfect I would not change a single thing. Harry and Wyn forever.

♾ stars “You are in all of my happiest places. You are where my mind goes when it needs to be soothed.” This book is my Happy Place. Wyn and Harriet are etched deeply on my heart, and I could read about them again and again for the rest of my life. Some books you simply enjoy, but others leave a mark—each word, each seemingly insignificant moment between characters, becomes something you hold onto, a small treasure that brings you warmth and joy. This book is that kind of solace for me, my happy place. The storyline is divided into two timelines, tracking the protagonists' shared history in the ‘Happy Places‘ and ‘Real Life’ timelines. The ‘Happy Place’ chapters were cute, and seeing Wyn and Harriet as friends, then as lovers, was beautiful. The ‘Dark Places‘ chapters were heartbreaking and raw, carefully describing the nature of Wyn and Harriet's love and how the dynamics between them were shifting due to changes in their lives, making their breakup feel inevitable. The ‘Real Life’ chapters were heartbreaking but comforting—the overwhelming longing and yearning between Wyn and Harriet was painful yet reassuring, showing they were trying to find their way back to each other. The fun and beautiful times their friends group spent together captured both the end of an era and new beginnings in their future. Everything was just so beautiful; I have no words for it. “My best friends taught me a new kind of quiet, the peaceful stillness of knowing one another so well you don’t need to fill the space. And a new kind of loud: noise as a celebration, as the overflow of joy at being alive, here, now.” Harriet is me. I am Harriet. I have never connected to a character like I do with her. Reading about her struggles and dilemmas made me feel seen and comforted. Harriet has a perfect job, but she is grappling with the realization that she's unhappy with the profession she pursued for a decade. She is a people pleaser who can't express her emotions freely because she feels she isn’t enough, even though she’s perfect as she is. Coming from a family that doesn’t show affection with words or actions, she is always expecting something bad to happen, and maybe making bargains with the universe seems like the perfect solution for those intrusive thoughts. Harriet never had the chance to heal from her past or her family's lack of love and happiness, but her growth in the present is commendable. I loved seeing her accept her flaws and recognize that she is enough and perfect, even without her job. I love her so much; I just want to hug her. “Before I even see him, my heart starts singing its favorite song. You, you, you.” Wyn Connor is the man I will love in every universe. He's perfect and so relatable in so many ways—thoughtful, funny, vast, and sweet. He’s so lovable that I instantly fell for him. He's a simple man, and I loved how he was always there for Harriet in the past. Wyn struggles with low self-esteem, often deprecating himself regarding his intelligence and career choice. He desperately wanted to be loved for who he is, and Harriet showed him she loves him in the way he needs to be loved. Harriet was Wyn's only anchor before their relationship, and he needed to find stability outside of her; he eventually found it in Montana and with his job, which he’s genuinely happy with. I acknowledge his mistakes, but it’s human to make mistakes when grief hits. You can't heal or help someone else or your relationship with them if you haven't healed yourself. “In every universe, it’s you for me. Even if it’s not me for you.” Wyn and Harriet are soulmates in every universe. Their love is eternal; it will always burn, no matter the time or distance between them. They are opposites, yet so perfect together. Their connection is deep, pure, and raw, and I couldn’t help rooting for their second chance at love. They decided to pretend to be together for their friends but didn’t want to address the conflict that led to their breakup, which was frustrating yet heartbreakingly realistic. Their love story is beautiful and heartwarming, full of angsty, sweet, and painful moments. “He’s become my best friend the way the others did. Bit by bit, sand passing through an hour glass so slowly, it’s impossible to pin down the moment it happens. When suddenly, more of my heart belongs to him than doesn’t, and I know I’ll never get a single grain back.” The longing and yearning between them was palpable; the lingering touches and stolen moments, filled with tension, desire, and love, made it hard for them to resist each other. I loved every moment of their antics, torturing each other playfully. The flashbacks of them meeting and falling in love described their destined bond beautifully. Their banter and sarcasm were so delightful that I could read about them forever. Heartbreak and tears led them back to each other, but what they have now is even stronger and healthier. They understand what it cost to lose each other and are working to be their better selves, showing some of the best character development. “Are you saying I can come home?” “I’m saying,” he murmurs softly, “it’s not home unless you’re there.” I am transfixed by Emily Henry's exquisite and profound storytelling—her delicate and complex prose that deals with nuanced emotional relationships and tight-knit friendships in this book. Each character is nuanced and contributes to the story in both small and significant ways. She delicately explores themes of grief, love, loss, hurt, and trauma, effortlessly weaving a story of second chances, self-discovery, forgiveness, and nostalgia by reminiscing about their friendship group in Happy Place timelines, and healing broken hearts and friendships by highlighting mature, real aspects of relationships and friendships. I could love this book forever, read it a million times in this life, and still not get enough. Emily Henry's books lean more toward women’s fiction, with romance adding a sweet, emotional vibe to the story—and that's what I love about Happy Place. It's not only about Wyn and Harriet’s love story; it’s also about the platonic love between friends and that's what makes it a masterpiece. “Things change, but we stretch and grow and make room for one another. Our love is a place we can always come back to, and it will be waiting, the same as it ever was. You belong here.” —————— I will always love this book and Wyn and Harriet in every universe. Rtc! —————— i am not a masochist but I know this book is going to ruin me 😗 Hoda if you see this pls be ready to pay my therapy bills bcs i am doing this for you

** spoiler alert ** 5 stars!! 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 (Spoilers!) 🙉❤️❤️ જ⁀➴“ 𝙄𝙣 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙮 𝙪𝙣𝙞𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙨𝙚, 𝙞𝙩𝙨 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙛𝙤𝙧 𝙢𝙚. 𝙀𝙫𝙚𝙣 𝙞𝙛 𝙞𝙩'𝙨 𝙣𝙤𝙩 𝙢𝙚 𝙛𝙤𝙧 𝙮𝙤𝙪."⋆✴︎˚｡⋆ I adore, ADORE this book and EVERYTHING in it!!!💝 I am convinced, Emily Henry can write anything and I will automatically give it a five star tbh- 😭😍 THE WRITING, in this is actually insane, I love it when authors write an exact emotion you’ve felt and then put into words, in a way where you wouldn’t know how to explain- (idk if that makes sense lol-🥲) As someone who doesn’t reach for the Second~Chance Romance trope..THIS THIS is how it should be written!!! I laughed, I got emotional, I was intrigued, I basically felt every human emotion in this book possible 👏🏼😭 Not only did I Love Wyn and Harriet with my whole heart but also the entire friend group, 🥲🫶🏼 The way that this book covered not only the relationship between Wyn and Harriet, but also covered the friendships and relationships throughout the friend group. It covered Harriet’s personal relationship with her parents and then covered her friendships between her friends, Sabrina and Cleo, which I loved sm🥹💝💝 Though after reading this I fear I now NEED to go to a cottage in Maine with all my friends ASAP. Can you tell I’m in love with the setting? 😭🌊☀️ Overall, love love this book, CANNOT WAIT to read Funny story!! I’m fully convinced in every universe I’m giving this book a five star 💫 🥲 💌favorite Quotes: જ⁀➴ “𝙈𝙮 𝙗𝙚𝙨𝙩 𝙛𝙧𝙞𝙚𝙣𝙙𝙨 𝙩𝙖𝙪𝙜𝙝𝙩 𝙢𝙚 𝙖 𝙣𝙚𝙬 𝙠𝙞𝙣𝙙 𝙤𝙛 𝙦𝙪𝙞𝙚𝙩, 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙥𝙚𝙖𝙘𝙚𝙛𝙪𝙡 𝙨𝙩𝙞𝙡𝙡𝙣𝙚𝙨𝙨 𝙤𝙛 𝙠𝙣𝙤𝙬𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙤𝙣𝙚 𝙖𝙣𝙤𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙨𝙤 𝙬𝙚𝙡𝙡 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙙𝙤𝙣'𝙩 𝙣𝙚𝙚𝙙 𝙩𝙤 𝙛𝙞𝙡𝙡 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙥𝙖𝙘𝙚. 𝘼𝙣𝙙 𝙖 𝙣𝙚𝙬 𝙠𝙞𝙣𝙙 𝙤𝙛 𝙡𝙤𝙪𝙙: 𝙣𝙤𝙞𝙨𝙚 𝙖𝙨 𝙖 𝙘𝙚𝙡𝙚𝙗𝙧𝙖𝙩𝙞𝙤𝙣, 𝙖𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙤𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙛𝙡𝙤𝙬 𝙤𝙛 𝙟𝙤𝙮 𝙖𝙩 𝙗𝙚𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙖𝙡𝙞𝙫𝙚, 𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚, 𝙣𝙤𝙬.” (⬆️this feeling was written so beautifully!! 🥲🥹) જ⁀➴ “ 𝙒𝙝𝙚𝙣 𝙨𝙪𝙙𝙙𝙚𝙣𝙡𝙮 𝙢𝙤𝙧𝙚 𝙤𝙛 𝙢𝙮 𝙝𝙚𝙖𝙧𝙩 𝙗𝙚𝙡𝙤𝙣𝙜𝙨 𝙩𝙤 𝙝𝙞𝙢 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙣 𝙙𝙤𝙚𝙨𝙣'𝙩, 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙄 𝙠𝙣𝙤𝙬 𝙄'𝙡𝙡 𝙣𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙜𝙚𝙩 𝙖 𝙨𝙞𝙣𝙜𝙡𝙚 𝙜𝙧𝙖𝙞𝙣 𝙗𝙖𝙘𝙠. 𝙃𝙚'𝙨 𝙖 𝙜𝙤𝙡𝙙𝙚𝙣 𝙗𝙤𝙮. 𝙄'𝙢 𝙖 𝙜𝙞𝙧𝙡 𝙬𝙝𝙤𝙨𝙚 𝙡𝙞𝙛𝙚 𝙝𝙖𝙨 𝙗𝙚𝙚𝙣 𝙙𝙧𝙖𝙬𝙣 𝙞𝙣 𝙨𝙝𝙖𝙙𝙚𝙨 𝙤𝙛 𝙜𝙧𝙖𝙮. 𝙄 𝙩𝙧𝙮 𝙣𝙤𝙩 𝙩𝙤 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙝𝙞𝙢. 𝙄 𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙡𝙡𝙮 𝙩𝙧𝙮.” (⬆️brb I’m crying) જ⁀➴ “ 𝙄 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙠 𝙄 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪, 𝙃𝙖𝙧𝙧𝙞𝙚𝙩," 𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙖𝙮𝙨 𝙇𝙤𝙫𝙚, 𝙄 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙠. 𝙏𝙝𝙖𝙩'𝙨 𝙣𝙚𝙬. 𝘼𝙣𝙙 𝙄'𝙡𝙡 𝙣𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙗𝙚 𝙝𝙖𝙥𝙥𝙮 𝙬𝙞𝙩𝙝𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙞𝙩 𝙖𝙜𝙖𝙞𝙣.’ (⬆️such a simple line but had me emotional 🥲) જ⁀➴ “ 𝘽𝙪𝙩 𝙄 𝙙𝙤𝙣'𝙩 𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙡𝙡𝙮 𝙗𝙚𝙡𝙞𝙚𝙫𝙚 𝙞𝙩. 𝙄 𝙖𝙢 𝙞𝙣 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙥𝙝𝙖𝙨𝙚 𝙤𝙛 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙬𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪'𝙧𝙚 𝙨𝙪𝙧𝙚 𝙣𝙤 𝙩𝙬𝙤 𝙥𝙚𝙤𝙥𝙡𝙚 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙛𝙚𝙡𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙨 𝙬𝙖𝙮 𝙗𝙚𝙛𝙤𝙧𝙚. 𝘼𝙣𝙙 𝙤𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙩𝙝𝙤𝙨𝙚 𝙛𝙤𝙪𝙧 𝙙𝙖𝙮𝙨, 𝙄 𝙛𝙖𝙡𝙡 𝙞𝙣 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙖𝙜𝙖𝙞𝙣. 𝙒𝙞𝙩𝙝 𝙒𝙮𝙣'𝙨 𝙛𝙖𝙢𝙞𝙡𝙮, 𝙬𝙞𝙩𝙝 𝙖𝙡𝙡 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙣𝙚𝙬 𝙥𝙞𝙚𝙘𝙚𝙨 𝙤𝙛 𝙝𝙞𝙢.” (⬆️Loved this scene) જ⁀➴ “ 𝙄 𝙡𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙗𝙤𝙬𝙡," 𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙖𝙮𝙨. "𝙎𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙝𝙤𝙬𝙚𝙙 𝙢𝙚 𝙖 𝙥𝙞𝙘𝙩𝙪𝙧𝙚. 𝙄 𝙩𝙝𝙤𝙪𝙜𝙝𝙩 𝙞𝙩 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙗𝙚𝙖𝙪𝙩𝙞𝙛𝙪𝙡.” (⬆️THIS SCENE 😭🫶🏼>>>) જ⁀➴ “𝙀𝙭𝙘𝙚𝙥𝙩 𝙬𝙞𝙩𝙝 𝙮𝙤𝙪. 𝙔𝙤𝙪'𝙧𝙚 𝙡𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙜𝙧𝙖𝙫𝙞𝙩𝙮." 𝙄 𝙘𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙𝙣'𝙩 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙥𝙪𝙡𝙡𝙚𝙙 𝙢𝙮𝙨𝙚𝙡𝙛 𝙖𝙬𝙖𝙮 𝙛𝙧𝙤𝙢 𝙝𝙞𝙢 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙣 𝙞𝙛 𝙝𝙚'𝙙 𝙗𝙪𝙧𝙨𝙩 𝙞𝙣𝙩𝙤 𝙛𝙡𝙖𝙢𝙚𝙨. "𝙀𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙮𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙠𝙚𝙚𝙥𝙨 𝙨𝙥𝙞𝙣𝙣𝙞𝙣𝙜," 𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙖𝙮𝙨 𝙞𝙣 𝙖 𝙡𝙤𝙬, 𝙝𝙤𝙖𝙧𝙨𝙚 𝙫𝙤𝙞𝙘𝙚. "𝘽𝙪𝙩 𝙢𝙮 𝙢𝙞𝙣𝙙'𝙨 𝙖𝙡𝙬𝙖𝙮𝙨 𝙜𝙤𝙩 𝙤𝙣𝙚 𝙝𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙤𝙣 𝙮𝙤𝙪." (⬆️only men written by Emily Henry do the love confessions that have me sobbing😭) જ⁀➴"𝙇𝙤𝙤𝙠 𝙖𝙩 𝙢𝙚." 𝙃𝙚 𝙬𝙖𝙞𝙩𝙨. "𝙋𝙡𝙚𝙖𝙨𝙚, 𝙃𝙖𝙧𝙧𝙞𝙚𝙩." 𝙃𝙞𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙪𝙢𝙗 𝙜𝙧𝙖𝙯𝙚𝙨 𝙢𝙮 𝙘𝙝𝙚𝙚𝙠𝙗𝙤𝙣𝙚. "𝙄 𝙖𝙢," 𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙖𝙮𝙨. "𝙄 𝙖𝙢 𝙨𝙩𝙞𝙡𝙡 𝙮𝙤𝙪𝙧𝙨." જ⁀➴ "𝙇𝙞𝙠𝙚 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙣 𝙬𝙝𝙚𝙣 𝙨𝙤𝙢𝙚𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙗𝙚𝙖𝙪𝙩𝙞𝙛𝙪𝙡 𝙗𝙧𝙚𝙖𝙠𝙨, 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙢𝙖𝙠𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙤𝙛 𝙞𝙩 𝙨𝙩𝙞𝙡𝙡 𝙢𝙖𝙩𝙩𝙚𝙧𝙨." જ⁀➴ "𝙄'𝙙 𝙧𝙖𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙛𝙞𝙫𝙚 𝙙𝙖𝙮𝙨 𝙖 𝙮𝙚𝙖𝙧 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙣 𝙖𝙣𝙮𝙤𝙣𝙚 𝙚𝙡𝙨𝙚 𝙖𝙡𝙡 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙩𝙞𝙢𝙚. 𝙄'𝙙 𝙧𝙖𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙖𝙧𝙜𝙪𝙚 𝙬𝙞𝙩𝙝 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙣 𝙣𝙤𝙩 𝙩𝙖𝙡𝙠, 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙬𝙝𝙚𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙬𝙚'𝙧𝙚 𝙩𝙤𝙜𝙚𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙤𝙧 𝙬𝙚𝙧𝙚 𝙣𝙤𝙩, 𝙄'𝙢 𝙮𝙤𝙪𝙧𝙨, 𝙨𝙤 𝙡𝙚𝙩'𝙨 𝙗𝙚 𝙩𝙤𝙜𝙚𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧, 𝙃𝙖𝙧𝙧𝙞𝙚𝙩. 𝘼𝙨 𝙢𝙪𝙘𝙝 𝙖𝙨 𝙬𝙚 𝙘𝙖𝙣. 𝘼𝙨 𝙡𝙤𝙣𝙜 𝙖𝙨 𝙬𝙚 𝙘𝙖𝙣. 𝘼𝙨 𝙨𝙤𝙤𝙣 𝙖𝙨 𝙬𝙚 𝙘𝙖𝙣, 𝙀𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙮𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙚𝙡𝙨𝙚, 𝙬𝙚'𝙡𝙡 𝙛𝙞𝙜𝙪𝙧𝙚 𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙡𝙖𝙩𝙚𝙧." જ⁀➴ "𝘼𝙧𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙨𝙖𝙮𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙄 𝙘𝙖𝙣 𝙘𝙤𝙢𝙚 𝙝𝙤𝙢𝙚?" '𝙄’𝙢 𝙨𝙖𝙮𝙞𝙣𝙜," 𝙝𝙚 𝙢𝙪𝙧𝙢𝙪𝙧𝙨 𝙨𝙤𝙛𝙩𝙡𝙮, "𝙞𝙩'𝙨 𝙣𝙤𝙩 𝙝𝙤𝙢𝙚 𝙪𝙣𝙡𝙚𝙨𝙨 𝙮𝙤𝙪'𝙧𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚." 𝙈𝙮 𝙖𝙧𝙢𝙨 𝙩𝙬𝙞𝙣𝙚 𝙖𝙧𝙤𝙪𝙣𝙙 𝙝𝙞𝙢, 𝙢𝙮 𝙝𝙚𝙖𝙧𝙩 𝙨𝙥𝙚𝙚𝙙𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙬𝙞𝙡𝙙𝙡𝙮 𝙖𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙞𝙣𝙙 𝙗𝙖𝙩𝙩𝙚𝙧𝙨 𝙪𝙨. "𝙄 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪," 𝙄 𝙩𝙚𝙡𝙡 𝙝𝙞𝙢. "𝙄𝙣 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙮 𝙪𝙣𝙞𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙨𝙚." જ⁀➴ "𝙔𝙤𝙪'𝙧𝙚 𝙖 𝙥𝙖𝙧𝙩 𝙤𝙛 𝙢𝙚. 𝙔𝙤𝙪'𝙧𝙚 𝙨𝙤 𝙙𝙚𝙚𝙥 𝙞𝙣 𝙢𝙮 𝙝𝙚𝙖𝙧𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙄 𝙘𝙤𝙪𝙡𝙙𝙣'𝙩 𝙜𝙚𝙩 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙤𝙪𝙩 𝙞𝙛 𝙄 𝙩𝙧𝙞𝙚𝙙, 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙄 𝙙𝙤𝙣'𝙩 𝙬𝙖𝙣𝙩 𝙩𝙤. 𝙄 𝙠𝙣𝙤𝙬 𝙝𝙤𝙬 𝙡𝙪𝙘𝙠𝙮 𝙄 𝙖𝙢 𝙩𝙤 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙮𝙤𝙪. 𝙏𝙤 𝙝𝙖𝙫𝙚 𝙥𝙚𝙤𝙥𝙡𝙚 𝙬𝙝𝙤 𝙡𝙤𝙫𝙚 𝙢𝙚 𝙚𝙣𝙤𝙪𝙜𝙝 𝙩𝙤 𝙝𝙤𝙡𝙙 𝙤𝙣 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙣 𝙬𝙝𝙚𝙣 𝙄'𝙢 𝙨𝙘𝙖𝙧𝙚𝙙 𝙩𝙤 𝙡𝙚𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢 𝙘𝙡𝙤𝙨𝙚." 🎧𝚂𝚘𝚗𝚐𝚜: ~Birds of a feather~Billie Eilish ~Put a little love on me~Niall Horan ~august~Taylor Swift ~You Are In Love~Taylor Swift ~Don’t you~Taylor Swift ~Maroon~Taylor Swift ~Packing it up~Gracie Abrams ~Two people~Gracie Abrams ~Too Good to be True ~Kacey Musgraves ~Giver/Taker ~Kacey Musgraves ~Dinner with friends~Kacey Musgraves ~Those Eyes~New West ~I know you~Faye Webster ______________________ 🩷💛💙Preread: Can’t wait to start this book!! All other Emily Henry’s books have been a solid 5 stars 🙌🏼🌟 Really hope this one is as well! 🤭💝

⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ (5/5 romance) Emily Henry could write a trigonometry textbook, and it would be the best thing I’ve read this year. If you’re a fan of romance or have always wanted to give it a try, picking this up should be the easiest decision you make today. Harriet & Wynn are one of those couples that seem to have been written in the stars. Like a cold glass of Sancerre and a lobster roll, these two go together perfectly. That is, until they break up and decide not to tell their best friends. This is how they find themselves on their annual friend trip in gorgeous Maine, sharing a bed (!!). While this vacation is typically Harriet’s happy place... what gets her through her grueling residency and endless San Francisco rainy days... this year, she’s forced to lie to her friends, as the cottage has been sold and this will be the last week they have together in this place. Who are Harriet and Wynn to break their friend’s hearts? After all, after years of being in love, how hard can it be to fake it for one week? This story is equal parts heady anticipation, butterfly-inducing banter, and heartstring-pulling real-life emotion. Emily Henry turns the English language into something decadent that you want to relish. I adored Harriet and really, really related to her. Like, more than I’d like to admit. I think Emily’s books are best enjoyed when you can fully get lost in the story. Best gobbled up sitting on a porch early in the morning before everyone else has gotten up, or curled up in a rocking chair after everyone has tucked into bed. Like all good things in life, this book is meant to be savored. Read this one with a crisp white wine or a strong dark coffee. I personally enjoyed it with a glass of Duckhorn Sauvignon Blanc that I dragged out from the back of my fridge and a hunk of sharp cheddar cheese and crackers.

5 + brave and bold stars!!! Want the naked truth about It Ends with Us? Reading this book will change your life. It’s so different from any of Colleen Hoover’s other books. You can tell it’s heavier, more personal, just more. This book is deep. It’s profound. It’s a book that needs to be read. I'll repeat: THIS IS A BOOK THAT NEEDS TO BE READ! This story is moving. It will make you think about things that are uncomfortable to think about. It will lift your heart, devastate you at times, make you proud, fill you with sorrow and make you smile. It will move you. It’s powerful and intense in the best way, but also has hopeful and lighter moments. The story itself is one that has been heavy on my heart from the moment I finished it. Sometimes, I read a book and it’s so beautiful, influential and emotional I will cry just thinking about the characters and their story. Not in a bad way necessarily, I just get that moved and that emotional while thinking about it. That is this book. Trying to find the words for this review is bringing me to tears. It’s hard to explain the story completely spoiler free, but this isn’t a ‘sad’ book. It’s a strength book. Because dealing with the issues in this story took so much strength. I’m not going to talk about the actual story at all, but I will speak a bit about the characters. Lily. Speaking of strength, Lily may be the strongest heroine that I’ve read about. Your strength is really tested when you are put in a hard situation where your choices are impossible. I loved Lily so much. I was proud of Lily and the choices she made. I want to be Lily when I grow up. Fifteen seconds. That’s all it takes to completely change everything about a person. Fifteen seconds that we’ll never get back. There are two men in this story, but please don’t think this is a triangle book. It’s not. It’s hard to explain, but it’s not. Ryle is a charming guy. He’s a giving person. He’s got a lot of great attributes. I’m not sure if I’ve ever felt so conflicted over a character as I did him. Atlas is the type of man I always have a soft spot for as a reader. His story gutted me at times, but he is also a character with a lot of strength and so much beauty. I loved Atlas from the second I met him and that love never stopped throughout the book. “Lily?” he whispers, looking at me sincerely. “You just might be the best thing that’s ever happened to me.” Aside from the three main characters in the story, Lily’s mom played a prominent part. Their relationship played an even bigger part. Ryle’s sister and Lily’s best friend Alyssa was one of my favorite characters in this book. When things got hard she was there. One line she said in the book, to Lily just solidified the type of woman she was. Coleen always writes that one side character that you love so hard in her stories, and Alyssa was that character for me. I can’t not mention Ellen, because, well, it’s Ellen. That part was brilliant. It made me smile every time Ellen was mentioned. When reading this book, there were moments I struggled between not being able to tear my eyes away from the page, and others I had to take a breather because I couldn't handle what was going on.Parts of this story left me so heartbroken and others lifted me up so high. There are some parts that are just so powerful I could only read them in awe. This is it. This is why I read. Books like this. All humans make mistakes. What determines a person’s character aren’t the mistakes we make. It’s how we take those mistakes and turn them into lessons rather than excuses. Colleen Hoover is an author who truly has a way with words. She killed this book. I’ve read and loved all of CoHo’s books. Some of her earlier books are some of my all-time favorites. I’ve enjoyed all of her latest books, but this is by far the best book she’s ever written. And it’s tied with Hopeless as my own personal favorite book by her. And that is saying a lot, because Hopeless is one of my top books ever. If you only read one book this year, let it be It Ends with Us. Everyone needs to read this book. 5+ star favorite. Completely unforgettable and highly recommended! “It stops here. With me and you. It ends with us.”

I honestly don't know how I feel. There are times I am angry and times I am sad. And then I'm both. And it's the worst, because there is a war raging inside me, and the winner side keeps changing. How is it possible to switch from denial to sorrow to fury to acceptance in a heartbeat? “There is no such thing as bad people. We’re all just people who sometimes do bad things.” I did my best not to cry. I felt sick, but I clenched my jaw and forced myself to keep reading, trying in vain to ignore the tremors that ran through my body. But when the last chapters came, and Colleen's note in the end, I couldn't take it any more. I dissolved into angry, hot tears, and I checked my chest to make sure my heart was not bleeding. Lily's story had a lot to teach. I think I died a little when I realized that sometimes love is not enough. Regret, good will, they're not enough to fix some wounds. On the contrary, they make them deeper. “Just because someone hurts you doesn't mean you can simply stop loving them. It's not a person's actions that hurt the most. It's the love. If there was no love attached to the action, the pain would be a little easier to bear.” It Ends with Us is the most personal and daring and painful book Colleen Hoover has ever written. Abuse and domestic violence are a delicate subject, and when I found out they were this book's main theme I thought about not reading it. It was a moment of cowardice, a moment I didn't want to witness this side of relationships. But I owed it to myself, as a person and as a woman to proceed. Because pretending a problem doesn't exist does not make it disappear. There will be spoilers below so if you haven't read It Ends with Us, you should probably stop here. “Fifteen seconds. That’s all it takes to completely change everything about a person. Fifteen.” Naked truth coming. I was one of the people who don't understand. The people who, when they hear about abuse, the first thing that occurs to them is why doesn't she leave him? Why does she let her fear guide her, and she's so selfish that makes her children witness such horrors inside their home, that was supposed to be their sanctuary? But what we should ask is what is wrong with him? Instead of making excuses and trying to justify him, we should take a moment and consider how she feels, and the difficult decisions she has to make. Ryle broke my heart into millions of pieces. I fell in love with him, and I kept wishing that Colleen would delete these words, these scenes that hurt me and disappointed me and shattered my belief in happy endings. A part of me, a part I tried to smother, a part I am ashamed that exists, wanted him to change. To try harder, and for Lily to let him try harder. Me, who judged them for not leaving. In the end, I felt sorry for Ryle. For losing the love of his life, for destroying his only chance at happiness. I don't forgive him, I just wish that a magic wand would make everything better. “So much gravity, pushing down on my emotions. Everything shatters. My tears, my heart, my laughter, my soul. Shattered like broken glass, raining down around me.” Lily is a hero. She had dignity, and courage and strength. At first I was judging her mother for staying, but witnessing through Lily's eyes her challenges, feeling her heartbreak and her dilemmas, made me regret all the ugly things I thought. Loving the person who hurts you is a greater torture than the physical act itself. And damn it I loved Ryle, and I hated Colleen for that. I hated her for making me swoon and laugh when she was about to shatter my soul. The Katerina that started It Ends with Us is a different person than the Katerina that finished it. Remorseful, destroyed, wiser. “Life is a funny thing. We only get so many years to live it, so we have to do everything we can to make sure those years are as full as they can be. We shouldn't waste time on things that might happen someday, or maybe even never.” A part of me wants to forget this raw, powerful, inspirational, beautiful and ugly book. But the dominant part, even though it suffers, is glad I read it and learned. To every single person out there, READ IT. To every woman in Lily's place, BE BRAVE AND BOLD. To Colleen Hoover, THANK YOU. For sharing this with us. With me. “Just keep swimming.”

Dear Colleen, I find it fitting that I write this review as a letter to you the way Lily would write to Ellen. Don't ask me why, I really don't know. What I do know is that I haven't been on Goodreads in nearly six months and it's entirely your fault that i'm here now. So, if i stumble upon a poor review on one of my books and end up in the fetal position on my kitchen floor surrounded by Ding Dong wrappers, well, I'm blaming it on you. I've even given my husband instructions to bill you for the psychiatry bill if that happens. On Friday I had a hysterectomy. It wasn't the worst day of my life, but it certainly wasn't the best. One chapter of my life--quite possibly the best chapter--ended. The surgery itself took twenty minutes. Twenty minutes. Can you believe that? Twenty minutes to take out the uterus that carried my three beautiful babies for a total of twenty eight months. Twenty minutes to change my life. Don't feel bad for me, that's not what I want. The offending organ had to come out, I knew this. But it didn't make it any easier. It didn't make the finality of the situation any easier. In all honesty, for a couple of minutes I didn't just feel like a chapter was ending, more like an entire flipping book. Maybe my life isn't made up of chapters, maybe it's part of a duet, or a trilogy? Either way, part of my story was over. Over a matter of several hours, I slowly woke up from surgery and at one point I remember sitting there and just staring at the wall paper in my hospital room. My uterus was gone. Mauve diamonds. The wallpaper was covered in mauve diamonds. That's the most hideous color, don't you think? Mauve. Not quite pink. Not quite maroon. I counted seven hundred and fifty three diamonds before I allowed the first tear to fall. But I wasn't just crying for losing a part of my body, and I wasn't crying for losing the ability to carry more children. I was crying because some women don't even get to experience what I've gotten to experience. Some women never get to have babies. They never get to feel them grow in their bellies. They never get to see the slimy little monsters as they tumble their way into this world. And I did. I got to do all of that three times. So why was I so upset? What the hell was my problem? I should be grateful, right? Happy? My husband slept soundly in the chair, snoring softly, but at some point my cries must have woken him up. He stirred and I did the only thing I could do ... I grabbed your book. You see, it was sitting on my bedside table. I buried my nose between the pages and when my better half asked me if I was okay I simply peeked over the top of the book and whispered, "Colleen. She did it again." I didn't need to say much more, he knows my obsession with your words and I found myself grateful. Grateful that he knew your books make me cry and grateful that you inadvertently allowed me to grieve. And that's what I did. I read your book and I grieved. I cried when Lily cried. I cried when Ryle cried. And even when no one was crying, I still cried simply because I needed to and I could and no one thought twice about it because i was reading and that's what i do when i read. It was my outlet, my excuse for the tears that wouldn't go away, the tears that kept falling despite my desperate protest. I cried for all of the Lily's in the world, and the Ryle's too. I cried for the Atlas'. And I cried for the Kirby's (that's my name. No i'm not named after a vacuum, or a cream puff) But you see, I didn't want to cry. I didn't want to be upset. I have three beautiful children whom I love with my entire heart. My body did it's job extremely well and that is something to be proud of. But why wasn't I proud? Naked truth? I'm selfish. I wanted one more baby even though my husband didn't. I wanted one more baby when there are women out there that can't have any at all. So why am I telling you this? My story is nothing like Lily's. Not even close. But maybe it is ... She wanted something she shouldn't want. I wanted something I couldn't have. She had a decision to make ... one that would change her life. So did I. She made a decision that was right for her and for her life at that particular time. Ditto. But the real reason I'm telling you this is because for two days I was drowning and It Ends With Us was my lifeline. It's what I grabbed when I needed to stop thinking ... it's what I grabbed when i needed to cry ... and when i finally finished the book and put it down, it wasn't mauve diamonds that I saw ... it was my smiling children. My three beautiful smiling children ... and my niece Lily. -- Kirby

My additional thoughts on the book adaptation and my movie review: I love Colleen Hoover so much, I’d probably even read her shopping list if she published it—her perfect blend of angst and tear-jerking emotion always gets me! I also really enjoyed the movie—the performances were strong, the emotional depth was moving, and the powerful, liberating message against domestic violence truly resonated with me. However, I can’t stand the ongoing feud between the lead actors. It needs to end! They need to make peace, especially with the It Starts with Us sequel coming up. It’s time to put the drama behind them and focus on what’s next for the fans. Here are my thoughts on the movie: https://medium.com/@niluferyozmekik/w... ———————- Oh my! Argh! This is me confronting my ripped apart heart pieces after reading this book! Actually, I read the book a long time ago. I was too scared to write a review because writing meant opening up about my feelings. This book hurt me a lot, and I couldn’t find the right words to describe the “hurt” it gave me. Honestly, this is my longest Coelho reading because I put it down several times. I got pissed! I screamed! I clenched my fists so hard! I cursed the entire family tree of Ryle Kinkaid! I haven’t wanted to hire contract torturers to kidnap a character and give them the punishment they deserved for so long. The things he did to Lily—the physical and emotional abuse—were impossible for me to absorb. I felt breathless and gave up several times. This book sledgehammered my heart and crushed my soul! I returned to my reading because the beautiful love story between Atlas and Lily was like seeing sunshine through dark clouds, giving me the only hope I could hold onto. I honestly thought of only reading the flashbacks to warm my heart! What if they had reconnected that night when they accidentally met again at the restaurant? What if Lily had gone back to him instead of choosing a path with Ryle? That scenario made me so happy, but it would never be the same without the tremendous angst Coelho threw at us because she is an expert at bringing out the dirtiest, ugliest cries of regular human beings! And without pain and suffering, so much sadness, we don’t feel like we’re reading an actual Coelho story, do we? Never! This book is being developed into a screenplay! It’s so compelling to read this heart-stabbing, soul-sledgehammering story without consuming tons of paper products to dry the tears we may shed. I cannot imagine how the movie will affect me. But sometimes words hurt more than actions, and I’m sure no screenwriter has the ability to reflect all the emotions Coelho made us feel during our reads. So my advice: stock up on all the paper products from grocery stores, lock yourself in a soundproof room so as not to scare your neighbors with your screams and howling sounds, and give your entire concentration to this lyrical, insanely heartfelt story. It’s one of the most compelling, sad, and sensational Coelho books. I could hardly digest the emotional turmoil it gave me! But it’s worth the pain. Especially that meaningful, sentimental, poetic ending melted my heart. I made some adjustments for clarity and flow, while preserving the original emotions and tone.

at the beginning i told myself i knew what i was in for and i was completely wrong. there are very few times, personally, when a book feels like it’s become a part of you. like you can physically feel it become a core book that you know you’d never stop thinking, talking, and recommending to those that would enjoy it. this is definitely that book i don’t think this book could have been written more perfectly. from the writing, the plot, to characters…nothing is fabricated. it is raw emotion and realistic. you fall in love with Lily. You want the best for her and you fight with her from cover to cover. i adored her character and reading her journey. i was so scared that this would end it a way that would have been unrealistic or just covered up in hearts and butterflies like we didn’t just witness 300+pages of trauma. but it didn’t, it quite literally ends with us. and you won’t know what that means until the very end. yes i cried. a lot. all for different reasons but i ended the book with the biggest smile on my face. it truly felt like i was on a journey with Lily, like i was vicariously living through her. this is definitely a favorite book of mine that i’ll be taking to the grave. i loved it so much and if anyone has anything negative to say about it you are simply wrong. i get the hype now and i was blown away. it went above and beyond from my expectations. if you plan to read this book, look up TWs because it’s very very intense. more intense than i realized. do not romanticize these characters because that’s just speaking over their trauma and experiences. and READ THE AUTHORS NOTE, it tells you how this came about. every page of this is worth it, if you can handle the subject matter of course.

Initially I rated it 3 stars & I just left the screener for the movie. The movie made me appreciate the book so much more. The parallels between my life & Lily’s character truly hit home. Absolutely check the trigger warnings on the book & movie! My advice is to read & then watch!

If you need me I'll be sweeping up all the pieces of my shattered heart. Dear God! It's amazing how you can read a story that is simultaneously gut wrenching and beautiful. I'll be honest, I managed to make it through this ENTIRE book without shedding a single tear... until I hit CoHo's note/acknowledgements at the end and ugly cried. The fact that this story had so much basis on real life events that meant so much to her shined through in her writing. Clearly you can guess the ending of the story (to some degree) by the title, but a majority of what makes this story so breathtaking is the journey there. "It Ends With Us" caused me to look at domestic abuse in ways I never allowed myself to in the past. As a society we are quick to judge women (and men) who stay in abusive relationships without taking into account what the process really is like for them. We get a slight glimpse into the fragile situation of how incredibly difficult it is to leave a dangerous relationship when you love the person who is causing you harm. I won't say more for fear of ruining the reading experience for someone else, but this book was so much more than a flimsy romance novel. Highly recommended! (Maybe I'll stop ugly crying by the time you've finished reading it.)

reread, just to see if my previous statement holds up. and in case you were wondering - yes, this is still my favourite CoHo book. ____________________________ this is, without a doubt, my favourite book by colleen hoover. im still trying to process everything i read, but goodness me. this book, this book, this book. where do i even begin with something as beautiful, and real, and devastating as this? just thinking about this story immediately gets my pulse racing and my stomach in jitters. this book covered so many brutally heavy topics that it left me shattered in the best way possible. it was a heartbreaking and heartwarming story, all at the same time. it made me question and think about some standards i have for myself, because you never really know how you are going to react in a situation until you are faced with it yourself. and because of that, you should never judge another persons circumstances. i think this story effectively shows that theres not always a right or wrong answer. not everything is black and white. and sometimes, when it comes to love, you just have to listen to your heart and thats the best you can do. my only critique was i desperately wanted more of atlas and his story. he was such an interesting character and i didnt feel like i got enough of him to be satisfied with his storyline. but overall, this story has stolen my heart. i also know this story was particularly personal to CoHo, so i just wanted to say how honoured i was to have read something she felt strongly enough about to share with her readers. i think it made the book so much more meaningful than it already was. ↠ 5 stars

You guys are always telling me this author writes vaguely shitty romance novels and is unbelievably overhyped... and yet this masterpiece exists? I call bullshit because this was masterful. If you have read this book and also follow my reviews, you know the topic of abuse is one I sort of talk about a lot. this book got it right. this book got it so, so right. So let’s talk about why. → character work ← I knew I would love Lily from the moment she stood up at her abusive father’s funeral and refused to speak. And oh boy, was I right. Lily works so well as a protagonist because she isn’t the archetype. She has been through abuse herself and she is so, so sure it would never happen to her. She would leave if even one thing happened. She would. ...But then she doesn’t. She reads as absolutely, totally real. And her character development? Fucking iconic. → friendship focus ← Something that really bothers me a lot in romances like this is that a romance tends to save the protagonist, and I think this book - despite marketing that made me concerned this trope would rear its ugly head - does the opposite. The lead friendship here between Lily and Alys is so 20/10 and so important. And even though there is a touch of romance, I think the book is very explicit about it not being healthy for Lily to jump right into a new relationship. I appreciate that a lot. → narrative treatment ← I think this is one of the only books I have ever read that actually seems to understand that abuse is a mortal sin. The wild thing is, aside from his moments of extreme rage, Rylin never appears to be that bad of a guy. He apologizes every time. He continuously seems to account for Lily’s feelings. But his actions against her are enough. There is no question in the narrative on whether she was being unempathetic: Lily was right to leave, no matter how he treated her in the aftermath. And I think that means a lot to me, how his character is nuanced but also irredeemable for Lily. I mean, aside from these three things, everything about this novel was basically good - the writing is extremely clean and easy-to-read, there are some really really funny moments, the romance that does end up occurring is genuinely sweet, and it's overall a win - but on a personal level? I am destroyed. This book is not just good, this book is Fantastic. and that's my opinion. goodnight. Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube

OMG 😍😍😍 Pls read Colleen's latest post... 😊 https://www.instagram.com/p/Bza_RYegc... -------------------- GOODREADS - 2016 BEST ROMANCE WINNER!!! :) https://www.goodreads.com/choiceaward... -------------------- This book is a masterpiece… “Life is a funny thing. We only get so many years to live it, so we have to do everything we can to make sure those years are as full as they can be. We shouldn't waste time on things that might happen someday, or maybe even never.” I won’t summarize this book to you because this is a Colleen Hoover book. She doesn’t need an introduction. She is Colleen Hoover. Her name is enough reason for me to read her books… <3 But you should know just one thing about this book… “THIS BOOK WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE…“ This book will make you realize whatever bad things you live in your own life that we shouldn’t give up from ourselves … We just have to keep swimming until we reach the shore… This book given me a lot of things to think about… And I never found myself a situation like Lily did. But when I start to read this book I felt that like I was the main character in this book. Colleen made me feel Lily’s all good and bad moments. One time I found myself laughing out loud and another time I found myself crying with her… And I must warn you, you’ll cry like a river… I even cried when I read Colleen’s note end of the book. I finished the book almost 36 hours ago and I’m still trying to gather myself. I'm really stuck right now with my own thoughts. I wanna tell you more about this book but words will only fail me because it’s really so hard to write a review about this book. It’s so damn hard. But nothing I said won’t be enough to explain how powerful is this book… Nothing will never ever enough to express my love about this story... So please stop losing time and read this amazing book. Trust me you won’t be regret for reading it. ;) Colleen Hoover, thank you very much for this unforgettable story. THANK YOU! <3 Ps. If I have a bad day I’ll think about this book. And if life gets me down, I’ll just keep swimming until I reach the shore… <3 “In the future . . . if by some miracle you ever find yourself in the position to fall in love again . . . fall in love with me.” He presses his lips against my forehead. “You’re still my favorite person, Lily. Always will be." -------------------------------- “Fifteen seconds. That’s all it takes to completely change everything about a person.Fifteen seconds that we’ll never get back." “Maybe love isn't something that comes full circle. It just ebbs and flows, in and out, just like the people in our lives. Just because we didn't end up on the same wave, doesn't mean we aren't apart of the same ocean.” “All humans make mistakes. What determines a person’s character aren’t the mistakes we make. It’s how we take those mistakes and turn them into lessons rather than excuses. “There is no such thing as bad people. We’re all just people who sometimes do bad things.” “I feel like everyone fakes who they really are, when deep down we're all equal amounts of screwed up. Some of us are just better at hiding it than others.” "I start shaking my head, wanting the last fifteen seconds to go away. Fifteen seconds. That’s all it takes to completely change everything about a person.Fifteen seconds that we’ll never get back." “It stops here. With me and you. It ends with us.”

This book tells us the story of Lily, Ryle, and Atlas. Lily is a businesswoman who moved to Boston after graduation. Ryle is doing Neurosurgery residency in Boston. Both of them accidentally meet together one day and fall for each other. Atlas is Lily's first love who suddenly reappears in her life. After a long time, I enjoyed reading a romance novel. But this book gave me a totally different experience compared to my favorite books. After reading 50 pages My rating at that time 1 star I was wondering what Ryle was doing. The author said that he was doing Neurosurgery residency. But he was behaving like a roadside Romeo and a kindergarten child at the same time. After 100 pages My rating at that time - 3 stars Colleen Hoover slowly fleshes out the character of Lily, and the story slowly starts to become interesting here. After 150 pages My rating at that time - 2 stars Cliches and smut regularly seen in romantic novels start appearing here. The author slowly but steadily falls into the bandwagon created by the writers of the new generation. After finishing this novel My rating at that time - 4 stars The novel ended in the best way possible. The author could have easily gone for a more conventional ending that might have satisfied more readers. But she decided to follow her heart and wrote a fantastic latter half for this novel After reading the authors note My final rating - 5 stars After you finish reading this novel, please don't forget to read the author's notes in the last part of this book. Colleen Hoover is telling her personal experiences and opening up her heart there. I was thoroughly impressed with what she wrote there. After reading that, I understood that I couldn't give any rating less than five stars for this book. I can never call this a perfect novel. There were many areas in the initial part that I detested a lot. However, the author brilliantly managed to bring everything back on track with her brilliant writing skills. She is discussing some extremely important topics, like domestic abuse, in this novel. She is also giving a great message to the readers through it. I can easily say that it is one of my favorite romantic novels I read in the last few years.

5/5 incredible stars. Colleen Hoover strikes again. This book has completely misled me, I admit. This is actually the third book I read from this writer. I don't remember much of the first book (Ugly Love), but I'm aware that I loved it. I think I'll read it again soon, to refresh things. Then, I read the book "Confession." That's where I fell in love. And strongly. I don't know if you read my review of this book, but if so, I guess you can notice how much this book has affected me. Anyway, the name "Colleen Hoover" was engraved in my head, and I came to the decision that I wanted to read more of her books. I admit I didn't really know which book to pick up, so I did it randomly. I have to admit, the impression I got about this book from the description is not wow. But if that's what I got, then whatever. Now I thank my random choice, and big time. Like I said, this book fooled me. I was sure at the beginning that it was such a nice love book. Oh, how wrong I was. Continuing, I realized how amazing Colleen Hoover is, how fascinating this book is, and how important the message and meaning is. This isn’t a book that tells only about love, it is a book about the lives of quite a few women in the world who have experienced it. The plot talks about Lily, a sweet girl who tried hard to rearrange her life. At the beginning of the book, she meets Ryle, a smart, handsome, assertive neurosurgeon. And he really likes Lily. They manage to connect and get to know each other with their secrets. They call it "naked truth." The extraordinary truths and familiarity brought them to life together. But how can you forget the sweet guy from Lily's past? Atlas is an absolutely exceptional guy. The book bounces you between the past, written from Lily's diary, to the present. In her diary, Lily talks about Atlas, a child without a home, without a family. Lily helps Atlas, she sneaks him to her house, lets him take a shower, gives him clothes, watch TV together, eat, talk, get to know each other. The connection between them is definitely special. But I guess everything has an end- or... doesn't it? When Lily and Ryle enter an upscale restaurant, Lily encounters Atlas, after so many years, and discovers that he has managed to create and bring his life to a good place. Sounds like a cliche love story to you, right? So it's not. I don't want to do spoilers, so I would be very careful. it’s a book about strong love, with problems that quite a few women get into a cruel situation. There are women who manage to take their feet and walk, and some do not. Our main character, Lily, who is indeed a special hero for me, is going through jolts, ups and downs. Will her love succeed in overcoming logic? Or could logic make it better for her love? You know, a lot of people tend to say, "Oh, come on, to me it won't happen, I'll never get to that." Well, it might not. But it can be. Whether it's a man or a woman - whether you're on the violent or innocent side. You can get into that kind of situation. We all can. This is a book that should reach a wide audience - men, women, adults and more. This is a book that teaches a terribly important lesson in life. You know, I learned about that in psychology and sociology. Freud talked about it - it's called a defense mechanism. This is a situation where the person starts to make a “rationalization”. It operates by the subconscious mind. The person may even not be openly aware of it, but only in the subconscious. It is very difficult, and I can talk about it for hours, but I can’t do it here lol. To sum up, that’s why this book is so important. So of course I highly recommend this book. Have a good read, my loves.

“There is no such thing as bad people. We’re all just people who sometimes do bad things.” I am a mess. Torn. So, so goddamn conflicted. Broken over the what-ifs of this book. Filled with sorrow. Proud. I feel manipulated. Tricked. Heartbroken. Educated. Thankful. Mindfucked. It Ends With Us is nothing like I’ve ever read. It certainly isn’t like any other novel Colleen Hoover has written. The word ‘DIFFERENT’ is just etched into its very essence. I feel like Colleen put part of her story and her soul on a silver platter for us to observe and draw our own conclusions from it and this also became evident within the Author’s Note which, by the way, I wholeheartedly encourage you to read. Hell, no. Scratch that. I WHOLEHEARTEDLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO READ IT ENDS WITH US. Not because of the hype. Not because of the romance. Not because of Colleen’s awesome writing skills. But because of the message. I cannot guarantee you’ll love it. I’m definitely far from loving it and I don’t even think it’s Colleen’s best work. This is the second book that’s ever made me feel the ‘I-love-it-but-I-hate-it’ vibes, the first being Dusty. I rated that one with 3 stars because based on my logic 1 star equals hate and 5 stars equate to love so the average of 3 will do. But I rated IEWU with a full 5 stars rating because if there’s one word to describe this book, then it’s EMPOWERING. And WOMEN EMPOWERMENT deserves 5 stars any given day. Plus, its unraveling is perfect. Without being spoilery, I will say this: this book is heavy. This book knifes your heart and twists it until you bleed all your pre-conceived ideas about certain topics straight out the window. I loved Lily. I loved Ryle. But most of all, I loved Lily & Ryle. Their relationship is so complex and layered and I was overwhelmed with feelings at just how perfect they were together. I laughed, I smiled, I felt my heart catch wings and head into the clouds. And then I cried buckets. Then there’s Atlas, which I did not fall in love with, but he just fit the puzzle perfectly and after a while I found him so lovable as well. And yes, I loved Lily & Atlas too. They were like a weak but brilliant rainbow after a storm. “In the future . . . if by some miracle you ever find yourself in the position to fall in love again . . . fall in love with me.” Now, now, don’t rush and believe this is some love triangle. I just feel evil now and I will say that YOU HAVE NO FUCKING IDEA MUHAHA. *sobs* I’m not saying more because you should definitely head in blind with this one, as I did. Honorary mentions are needed, however: Alyssa, I swear, she’s the best friend I could possibly imagine; I cannot comprehend how difficult it must have been to say and do some things considering the unique dynamics of her with the other characters; Marshall was another great addition that simply showed how easily men can empower women too; and Lily’s mother is a glorious character. And I will share this: there was one particular scene that left me crying like there’s no tomorrow. The last hospital scene. That beautiful and so very ugly and just 100% gut-wrenching scene. Where decisions were made in the hopes of a better future. Where letting go was worth the love you’ve built piece by piece. Where the cycle of history stopped. Where I had to put the book down and start a sobfest. It gutted me, completely and utterly gutted me. “And as hard as this choice is, we break the pattern before the pattern breaks us.” I read this book in 5 hours. I finished it 24 hours ago. I still can’t stop thinking about it and my stomach is still churning like ashes have taken residence there. I’m an emotional mess. I feel unsatisfied, yet content. Enraged, yet peaceful. This book shows the good, the bad, the in-between. It shows life and love and hatred. It shows how love can become a poison. It shows how love can shackle and hurt, but also save and heal. Honestly, it blew my mind. It doesn’t matter that it made me uncomfortable or that it made me wish things ended up differently. This story needed to exist exactly as it is no matter how broken my heart feels. It is brave and bold. It’s an eye-opener. I realized upon reading that I might have been indifferent or dismissive or downright judgmental regarding some statistics (this sounds weird, I know, but you’ll get it once you read). I never fully grasped some scenarios or some perspectives, but It Ends With Us changed that. It changed me, undoubtedly. And for that, thank you, Colleen. Thank you, Lily. Thank you for making me a better person.

29th NOVEMBER 2023: I STILL LOVE THIS BOOK AND I STILL LOVE COLLEEN HOOVER’S WRITING. This much hate on the internet is just not acceptable and I have lost trust on some bookish friends who used to post multiple times day and night featuring the author’s name, book quotes and character names, and who used to praise the author like the author was the only ONE author we MUST ALL read. I just do not want to be someone who uplifts someone so HIGH and then push them down suddenly from the highest tower by bringing them up there just because of some opinions. Yes, calling out what’s not okay has been done/discussed BUT I’m really tired of all the mean posts and hatred directed towards the author. I have been waiting long enough for it to die down but trying to gain views by stretching this hatred is getting a little too much. Yes, I do not like every book by the author and yes, have hated a few but it happens with most of my other fav authors as well. Just pray that you are not killing someone while they are still alive because of all your mean posts and comments. . . . 💯First read: 4 🌟 💯Second read: a freaking good 5 🌟 read! CoHo you 🖤🖤🖤🖤🖤🖤🖤🖤🖤🖤🖤🖤 I am so glad I read this book. It is one of the most hard-hitting books of all times I would say. It's realistic, relatable and happening. Domestic violence. The one theme that is really important but we choose not to discuss much. The victims accept it most of the time thinking it's their 'fate' and I can understand why we find it difficult to leave the so called 'abusers'. Until it happens to us, we find it somewhat difficult to believe the hurt and the truth that we as victims face. The trauma is real and it stays with us forever. The writing style is really good. The character representation is so damn amazing and it's so clear like the dark blue ocean. You will grasp it and will feel the deepest emotions that lie beneath the words. The chemistry between the characters is sizzling and dark and honest. The ending is so damn satisfying. I am so in love with this dark, realistic read. The plot is simply real and raw. I would like every woman to read this book once. We all need to read this book once! Atlas. He is my favourite character. I will trust my instincts more and help the less unfortunate in times of need. What touched me the most about this read: The characters saving each other at unexpected moments of their lives. Why don't we make it happen more in real? It doesn't take much. We don't have nothing much to lose when we do so. This book has changed a few things about the ways I used to believe as 'normal' being a woman. Yes. I will make my life and my family's life better by taking a stand of my own. Thanks, Colleen Hoover.

Update: I just made a vlog on Patreon where I reread this book and watch the movie adaptation to compare. You can see that video here: https://www.patreon.com/posts/110407368 "Maybe love isn't something that comes full circle. It just ebbs and flows, in and out, just like the people in our lives. -- Just because we didn't end up on the same wave, doesn't mean we aren't apart of the same ocean." I finished reading this book months ago and I haven't been able to stop thinking about this story and these characters. This story is so incredibly important and moving and emotional, and this book feels so raw and real. I love that each one of these characters has flaws, some bigger than others, but all of them feel so realistic and have so many layers to them. In this book we follow Lily Bloom, a young girl living in Boston where she meets a Neurosurgeon Ryle on the roof of a building one night. They share a lot of "naked truths" as they call it where they share some brutally honest secrets about each other, and I easily fell in love with both of these characters and their chemistry right away. Lily wants to own a flower shop and create her own business and she comes from an abusive home, where her Father abused her Mother. "No one is exclusively bad, nor is anyone exclusively good. Some are just forced to work harder at suppressing the bad." As we follow Lily and Ryle's love story, we get flashbacks of Lily's teenage-hood when she fell in love with a homeless boy named Atlas. Lily starts all of her diaries with "Dear Ellen" and writes her diaries to Ellen DeGeneres which I thought was super awesome. Atlas is one of my all time favorite male characters, he's so sweet and humble, and innocent and he deserves all the best in the world. I am in love with his character. The flashback chapters kind of reminded me of Eleanor & Park with the way Lily and Atlas would ride the bus to school together, and Lily is a red head just like Eleanor. I thought Lily was so sweet for taking care of Atlas, who was secretly staying in a vacant house next door. Their relationship started out so innocently and grew into one of the most beautiful love stories I've ever read. (view spoiler) I love all the first chapters with Ryle's character. His sister Alyssa and her husband Marshall are two of my all time favorite side characters. They were just so funny and entertaining. I love how Lily always talks about Ryle wearing his scrubs as a doctor and having the "steadiest hands in Boston". I also love how passionate Ryle is about being a doctor and he's so driven and goal-oriented. (view spoiler) This book was so raw and heartbreaking and it was completely different from all of Colleen Hoover's other books. This book was absolutely incredible and one of the saddest books I've ever read, but also one of the most beautiful stories I've ever read. This book deals with intense themes like: drug use, abuse, rape, death, all of it, and yet it finds the silver lining in the sadness. Atlas is quite possibly my favorite male character in existence, I just love and adore him so much, I can't say it enough. This book has affected me on a personal level and an emotional level in a way that few books ever have. The writing style is paced so nicely and I loved how it flowed so easily between the flashback chapters and the present chapters. This book has stolen my heart and I don't really have the words to describe how incredible this book is. It's unlike anything I've ever read before and it has two insanely beautiful story lines going on at the same time that collide in the most amazing way possible. This book is going to speak volumes to young women everywhere and I love the message that this book gives. It's so powerful and honest and I'm so proud of Colleen Hoover for taking on a topic like this. This book is phenomenal and I can't say enough positive things about it. I already want to re-read it and I read it three days ago. "Imagine all the people you meet in your life. There are so many. They come in like waves, trickling in and out with the tide. Some waves are much bigger than others. Sometimes the waves bring with them things from deep in the bottom of the sea and they leave those things tossed onto the shore. Imprints against the grains of sand that prove the waves had once been there, long after the tide recedes. That was what Atlas was telling me when he said I love you. He was letting me know I was the biggest wave he'd ever come across. And I brought so much with me that my impressions would always be there, even when the tide rolled out." REVIEW BEFORE RELEASE DAY: (written in May 2016) I was provided an ARC from the publishers. Oh my god, I finished this book late last night and I can't put into words how much this book has moved me. Colleen Hoover is my favorite author and I absolutely love all of her books but this book is easily my all time favorite book from Colleen. This book is exceptional and heartbreaking and it's so incredibly raw and real. I haven't cried this much while reading a book in a long, long time. This book is so important and I love the message it sends. Not only is this one of the best books I've read this year, it's one of the best books I've ever read in my life. It's only been a day since I've finished it but I haven't been able to stop thinking about it since and I know this book will be on my mind for so long. This is unlike any of Colleen's other books and she said herself that this is her most personal book to date and it really shows. I could feel the emotions jumping off the page. I sat on my couch and finished this book in one sitting because I could not put it down unless I knew how it ended, and I'm glad I did because this is the kind of book that deserves to be devoured in one sitting. I also feel like this book is even better when you go into it knowing absolutely nothing like I did, because every little plot twist is extremely shocking and amazing. I will post my full review closer to the release date but, my god Colleen this book is phenomenal. Also, I created a playlist for this book of songs that I think go really well with the book, check it out here: http://8tracks.com/itsgabbyg/it-ends-...

⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ I started reading this only this morning and have just finished reading the last page five hours later. I could not put this down. I was so emotionally invested in this story from the very first page. I have been putting off reading Colleen Hoover for a very long time due to fear of disappointment but it's safe to say I'm so glad I finally got around to reading this one. Do check trigger warnings if you are going to read this one though!

update: just realized that the cover is not a broken lily but a broken pink orchid and that pink orchids symbolize innocence and fertility... 😱 guys i am WRECKED i went into this thinking i was getting fluff with a side of smut but NO. i was not emotionally prepared. after about halfway through, i sent Izzy seven videos over the span of the rest of the book. will insert some quotes below for your reading enjoyment. please know that all of this is hysterical and I am sobbing thru every one of these sentences: "nowww he's t-taking care of her after she's been housing him and taking care of him for like the majority of the book and," I'm wailing at this point, "it's a CYCLEEEEE." I read out this line to her but like full-on WEEPING: "If in the future... if by some miracle you ever find yourself in the position to fall in love again... fall in love with me." "Um there's only like 50 pages left and there's no happy ending. there's a happy ending, right? i swear to god if they're not together by the end of the book I will climb through this screen and kill you." there's a moment of silence where I'm just aggressively staring at the screen here. live footage included below: favourite quote of the day: "I just finished the book and read the author's note and look at my tears... i put this book on my Christmas list and my mom bought my books for Xmas today and if this book is not one of them... these tears will come out on Christmas day." I also sent a wordless video tracking my tears as they ran down the face and counted them. if that doesn't tell you about my experience with this book idk what will.

SPEECHLESS. This book left me completely speechless. It's why this review will be far from eloquent and admittedly a little short. I've been staring at the cursor as it blinks in silence on my computer screen, trying to come up with a review for this unbelievably complex, astonishingly real, and heart wrenching novel. I can't decide what I want to tell you and I think that's because I really don't want to tell anything at all. I went into It Ends with Us with a clear head and absolutely no idea on what was going to happen. It's best that way. This novel is one of those reads that simply knocks you out cold. It's a heavy handed, physical blast to the feels (aka: emotions). You cannot catch your breath while reading. It's settles you into an easy reading pace, makes you feel good, cocoons you in it's warmth, and then when you think you're happy and safe, you're not. It EVISCERATES you. It tears you down piece by piece until you're left confused, torn, broken, thinking, "I can't believe this is happening. I don't believe it. I don't want to believe it." I still can't get over it. I still can't process the fact that it threw me so off center. And when I describe this book to people, I keep repeating, "It's heart breaking, but hopeful." And I know that doesn't seem really comforting. It doesn't tell you much at all. But here's the thing, I don't want to get into Ryle or Atlas or Lily or the characters in this book. I don't want to break them down piece by piece. I don't want to plant seeds or ideas in your head. I don't want to influence your reading experience. I want you to go in. I want you to READ. I want you to EXPERIENCE it with the same innocence and naivety that I did. I want it to sucker punch you. I want it to ruin you. I want it to heal you. I want you to LIVE this through Lily's eyes, heart, and mind just like I did. And I feel as though saying anything to you, about anything, is a spoiler. And that is why this review is so pathetic. It's why this review is a short, hot mess. ARC received in exchange for an honest review FOLLOW ME ON: FACEBOOK | INSTAGRAM | TWITTER | BLOG

*****5 STARS***** This is not my real review, please read the unfiltered review here... https://prettymessreading.wordpress.c... So here the thing... I am struggling writing this review because it hits so close to home. Because of that fact this isn’t going to be written like my normal reviews, it will be about me and Lily. It will be a correlation of our lives. As I read this book the little broken girl inside me started coming out. I wanted to put her back. I didn’t want her resurface. I needed her to go back to her hiding place where the adult Danielle wouldn’t find her… She came out nonetheless. I spent my childhood from 6 months to 12 years old in a 3 bedroom, 2 1/2 bathroom, 2 car garage house from hell. My mother had a job at a warehouse and my step-father owned his own construction company. We went to church every Sunday where my step-father’s brother was the preacher. We were clean, never hungry and went on family vacations. It looked perfect from the outside. But the inside was a completely different story. Unlike Lily, my step-father’s abuse reached my brother, sister, and me. I learned from an early age how to take a few blows from a man. It became so normal that they didn’t even hurt anymore. But let’s talk about It Ends With Us… I fell in love with Ryle during the beginning of the book. He was sexy, smart, good in bed – everything I girl could ask for. He was attentive even with his busy schedule at the hospital. He worked for Lily’s heart and never took her love for granted. Lily was funny as hell. I loved her from the first paragraph. I thought, “This is a chick I could rock with.” Plus she was a red head. My inner lesbian has a thing for red heads. She was a badass. She was a woman who knew her self-worth and I loved that about her. When the two of them came together it was pure magic. Here’s this man who doesn’t want anything that resembles love in his life but couldn’t help himself from falling in love with her. That’s one of my favorite things to read about and to see in real life. Atlas, Atlas, Atlas! He was just… perfection! I want an Atlas when I grow up. I really enjoyed reading Lily’s letters to Ellen Degeneres. Getting inside Lily’s head, seeing Atlas the way she did made me love him too. I became so conflicted as to who I wanted Lily to be with. From this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and health, until death do us part.” Maybe those vows weren’t meant to be taken as literally as some spouses that time. For better, for worse? Fuck. That. Shit. I’ll be honest, it was hard to hate Ryle. Even after everything he did there was a piece of me who hoped he could change. I think that that scared little girl in me wanted to believe he would stop, like I prayed my step-father would. This is one of those books everyone has to read for themselves to find their voice on it. It's not a book to be reviewed, it's a book to be felt. Follow all my crazy... Blog https://prettymessreading.wordpress.com/ Instagram https://www.instagram.com/prettymessr... Facebook https://www.facebook.com/prettymessre... Twitter https://twitter.com/prettymessread

5 stars! “Now all that was gone. This was the unbelievable fact of death. This was a paradox her mind could not accept, that someone could be in the world one moment and simply be gone the next.” I never doubt Rebecca Kuang when it comes to books. Like she can switch to any genre, write literally any storyline, but she's just so insanely talented that it never fails to capture my attention, it literally casts a spell on me, and I feel breathless when I read her books. I have read all of her books with the exception of "The Burning God' because lets be real 🧍I am not ready for the devastating blow it'll deliver but from what I have read by her, I've noticed how well researched her books are, and how they're so neatly finished like you cannot find any cracks and Katabasis like her other books followed this path. It was a different genre (Dark academia), but it was so well-researched, and I realized many times as I read this, I was simply in awe. The book felt like it was written by someone who had graduated from Oxford, Yale, and Cambridge. This book had Calculus, my worst nightmare, but the way R.F. Kuang wrote it to support the paradoxes and the logic around her world was so well done that I was secretly invested. I wanted to read more about it 😭 I felt so foreign harboring feelings like that towards Calculus, but if Miss Kuang decides to teach calculus...I'LL ENROLL. You don't understand how hard you have to try for me to like or even read something related to calculus, but I was so invested in the way she bent it to her own narrative and her own world-building. She's quite literally a mastermind. “Christ,” said Peter. “Hell is a campus.” There were a lot of criticisms that this book got when it was published, and the only one I found myself agreeing with was that it was a love story because it wasn't; it had a love story in it, but it was NOT a love story; it was so much more. Also, people criticized it for being too academic 😭 it's DARK ACADEMIA?? What do y'all expect, but even if we scratch that, it was still digestible, it was. It also wasn't like the academic part felt like a slog or dragged because the way she blended it in with the story just made the whole concept so much better, you had an idea of how everything was working because proofs were being provided and the explanation was so beautifully written within the novels constraint that it didn't feel like a "textbook" also I felt like this was way more easier to read than 'Babel' if we're talking about it being too academic. The logical demonstrations that Kuang did in the interludes were so exciting to read, and I was so bummed that they weren't filled throughout the book because I was having SOO MUCH fun reading them. “This was the key to flourishing in graduate school. You could do anything if you were delusional.” I have so much to say about this book 😭 one thing being how Rebecca writing this book made many of the readers feel like she was flaunting her three degrees because her characters are graduates in Cambridge but it quite literally the opposite of that, she highlight the criticisms of these institutions with her pen, the exploitation of students, the cruelty that was depicted and hell quite literally being Cambridge 😭😭 took me out but it was a really good way to convey that message. So, I feel like sometimes people should just actually try and see what the book is trying to convey rather than bashing it. “She gazed at Peter and thought, 'I wish I were the night, so that I might watch your sleep with a thousand eyes.” I honestly think that in the following years to come, this book will be perceived as a classic because it is a timeless classic, it has all the aspects that would give it that recognition and I know that the way she targeted institutional corruption, her take on hell so far is the best one I have seen, it's so unique and it stands so well on it's own despite drawing inspirations from others, I also loved the blend of Chinese mythology in it. “And if falling in love was discovery, was letting yourself be discovered the equivalent to being loved?” Rebecca's narrative in Katabasis refused to sit still because it transitioned from academic satire to academic seriousness. She weaved her way through the narrative, adding philosophical touches to it, and it worked in her favour. The journey that she took us on was presented to us through the present timeline and past flashbacks, and usually, I'm not that big of a fan when there's a past and present switch, but it sort of elevated the story here. The narrative that this book follows, coupled with its themes/tones and the setting itself, can be very heavy; the back and forth gave it a much-needed balance. Although the chapters were long, each of them ended up with a mini cliffhanger, which kept the pace moving; however, I would still classify this as a slow-paced book, and it's more beautiful like that, you absorb so much when you read it at the pace that it sets, the sharp twists and turns just hit you one after another. When I reached the end, I did sit and think, 'What was even the point of this book?' because there's not much that happens, but also simultaneously, there's so much that's happening. The main thing that really hit me was the factors that Alice faced. How she questioned her loyalty, how she processed her own emotions, her inner turmoil was so vividly displayed that it just made everything so much better. “Her memory did that sometimes; she confused memories and reality, her imagination was too vivid, she couldn’t help it.” Moving on to the characters, Alice Law, I have never met a character whom I have been this conflicted about because Alice Law was a very hypocritical person. I did not like her at times, but I also resonated with her at times. Reading her journey through hell was the best part of this book. The reasons why she went to hell at first didn't convince me, but as I saw more of the flashbacks and got to know more of her, the reasoning became clearer, and I was more understanding towards her. Rebecca displayed Alice's mind in this unfiltered manner, where we saw everything that happened, ALL her thoughts- the bad and the good. Her determination is a quality about her that I really liked because 😭 she literally went to hell and had no idea what to do 🧍 but I liked the way she mapped hell out and her journey, which dealt with bitterness, guilt, and confusion. I really enjoyed reading about her character. The way I wanted to kill Grimes was because of the immense torture that he put everyone through and especially her, and the reason behind it made me even more enraged. Everything that she did. All the hate and the envy that was etched into her was a consequence of Grimes' words and actions, and I will forever hate him for that, and that is perhaps why the ending was very satisfying for me. Also, she was portrayed so well 😭😭 because she was literally bartering with the king of the underworld. “I feel sometimes it is so difficult to be conscious.” Peter Murdoch. We see Peter through Alice's perspective, and through that, Peter feels very distant and unpredictable. I had no idea what to think of them because Alice was so uncertain about him and reading the book through her thoughts made me uncertain about him as well, he did come off across as a bit reckless - joining Alice on her journey to hell, the whole notebook fiasco but Peter was the exact opposite of what we made him to be and it was al because of the subtle differences that Grimes had caused between them by favoring one over the other and this was so deep rooted. Ugh, I hate Grimes. Peter's story through his own perspective (flashbacks) was very refreshing because that way we saw Peter for who he was, what he was struggling with, and his encounter with Grimes was the same as Alice's. I felt so sad for Peter tbh :(( He deserved better. “Surely no one else lived like this - burdened by the tiniest details they assumed had enormous consequences. Surely no one else was so anchored by anxiety. Other people could stumble and shake their heads and move on. How she envied their lightness.” Elspeth and Archimedes, Archimedes was the cutest, and Elspeth was just another victim of Grimes. I liked how she helped Alice see him for who he really was, but also I hate how much she was underestimated because 🙏 she was strong asf. “Meteorologically, Hell didn’t seem much worse than an English spring.” The romance, initially, when this book was announced, I thought it was going to be a romance, but to my surprise, when I got to know more about it, I knew that was not the case, and thank god for that because it helped me manage my expectations so much better!! Alice and Peter's love story was so well written, it was a subplot, but the way it bloomed was what I loved, and the fact that all of this happened in hell, LMAOO. I feel like there was so much hate-filled b/w them because of Grimes, but I liked that they worked their way through that. But honestly, them working it through that and trying to trust each other was the best art, and the humor/ banter between them was absolute gold!! “Fortunately graduate school had prepared her for this, the constant managing of despair.” The plot I'm so tired of writing this review 😭😭 and the fact that I still have so much to talk about 🤸 So, Katabasis is the descent into the underworld and is a Greek term. Katabasis literally feels like reading a half descent in myth and a half dissertation, in the best way possible, btw. The way she interwove the linguistic and philosophical aspects of this book with the plot was truly phenomenal. I have never felt this immersed. This review might have a repetitive nature because I've been writing it for the past week 😭 The plot was not just complex, it had a logical emotional reasoning. It was literally like taking a rollercoaster ride on an intellectual escapade; the paradoxes, the interludes, and the intricate magic system just elevate the entirety of the reader's experience. For me, Katabasis had a rather stagnant plot. Not much was happening, and side by side, a lot was happening. I honestly do not know how to explain that, but that literally is what it felt like reading it. You might think nothing of substance is happening, but you would also be conflicted because you would feel a lot is happening 🧍🤸 the stakes were not always high. “But of course it was worth it. It was the only thing that was worth it. She had been fortunate to find a vocation that made irrelevant everything else, and anything that made you forget to eat, drink, sleep, or maintain basic relationships—anything that made you so inhumanly excited—had to be pursued with single-minded devotion.” I think it doesn't always matter if the journey doesn't have epic action sequences or climactic situations, and Katabasis proved that. The main focus, or the main beauty of reading Katabasis, is noticing Kuang's deliberate action of making Katabasis a slow-paced book. I was truly able to appreciate this book way more this way. I was able to see that the plot was the journey itself, because at its core, it's about Alice's descent through knowledge and self-destruction. Katabasis itself is so nuanced that this kind of pacing is necessary for you to catch up on these subtle hints and understand what the plot actually revolves around. One of the main plot points was Alice and Peter discovering that hell was a campus. Highlighting how academic drive or academic ambition can be hell itself, another thing that was done very subtly was showing us how Alice was a character who had her perceptions about knowledge, academics, progress, success, and the way it was slowly peeled away for her to be met with the cold, hard truth was so brilliant to see tbh. This shows how the plot was never moving around things like entering or escaping hell; it was about what Alice felt and discovered, and how her priorities shifted; it was her experiencing something of which she had no control. “What you must realize, Alice, is that you cannot just take refuge in feminism when it suits you.” All of this doesn't negate that there were scenes of action sequences and climax, but they were not to the degree you would expect them to be. It was more about the main character unveiling the reality of the world of academia, while tackling her own personal critiques. If you want action, you will get that. Do you want plot twists? You will get that too. It's sort of filled with everything, but the amount of it in the book differs. The plot twists tbh really got me, and the chapters after the reveal were my favorite because we got so many answers!! I absolutely loved that. “Hell’s lonely,” said Peter. “You’ll want company.” “Hell is other people, I’ve heard.” I'm blabbering so much in this review 😭 but I don't want to stop because I loved it so much!!! And one thing that I loved the most about this book was its world-building and magic system, I fear I may never shut up about this part. The world that Rebecca created literally has me in awe because it's so vast, it's so well crafted, and like you could go on hours and hours dissecting it, and AHHHH you would love it because everything about it is so damn interesting and all-consuming. Rebecca Kuang's take on Hell is so different from the other interpretations despite her inspirations. So, in Kuang's version of Hell, Cambridge itself is hell. The entirety of the system fits categories that would define hell; it's served as a vivid parallel for Alice as the eight circles mirror academic corruption, and it's done so well!! Every inch of this world is a critique of the system. Kripke's symbolizes the consequences of when the intellect overpowers humanity; the Lethe, according to my interpretation, was a relief of academic stress or academic burnout. In this version of Hell, it served as a form of mercy where you could forget everything, and all the courts of hell represent the academic corruption, like the arrogance of intellect, the need for validation, exploitation, rivalry and resentment, self-destruction, autocratic control, and knowledge being weaponized. All of the parallels are so well reflected!! You can quite literally see them in the institution that Peter and Alice attend, and how vividly it mirrors hell. “Perhaps human intelligence was a mistake, and everyone who celebrated the escape from the Garden of Eden was wrong. Perhaps the gift of rationality did not outweigh the debilitating agony that came with it.” The magic system's backbone is logic, reasoning, and paradoxes. There's so much theory involved in just the magic system alone that I believe someone can write a separate book on that, and honestly, I would devour that as well, like every epic magic system, it's not perfect. It has its flaws too, which makes it so much better. The way she gives us extensive knowledge on the system she created in the form of interludes just shows how passionate Rebecca was about this world; it honestly felt like the output of a collision between Theory and logic, and it honestly was explosive. The main source of magic is done throughout the use of chalk which felt very academicy and intriguing to me 😭 so chalk is used in the real world, Alice and Peter bring it along in hell thinking it would work but upon using it on the sands of hell it would remove the work done, this formed the way the hell functions and the use of blood on chalk to perform magic for it to exist felt so fun to read!! I might be wrong on this, but I think the magic was also heavily reliant on maths, with functions and equations being used to perform. The spells worked really well that way. I love it when there's some depth, and there was extensive depth in this world's magic systems so far as to using the principle of paradox, and the very idea of that was so mind-boggling, I LOVED IT!! “The life of the mind, unfettered from commerce, was the only kind worth living.” The ending was satisfying to read, it gave me what I wanted in the most satisfying manner, and I loved that as well!!! Overall, Kuang aced this! It was my favorite read of the month, if not the year. p.s.: special thanks to areeba who proofread this entire review and corrected my mistakes for free out of the goodness of her heart. ___ The review is never-ending 🧍🏻 I've been writing for the past 3 days. ___ I don't get the hate😭 this was breathtaking. ___ I am feral over this already, and I'm at page 1 🧍🏻 ___ AVON AND HARPER IM ON MY KNEES BEGGING FOR AN ARC 🙏🏻 ___ Can we just stop what we're doing to admire this beautiful cover 🙏🏻 it's gonna look so good on my shelf!! ___ "Alice Law, you naughty girl. You're trying to go to hell." Just give it to me, please 😭 🙏🏻

Some books are too magnificent to simply be described—they must be devoured and savored slowly to fully appreciate their brilliance. This is one of them—a spellbinding blend of enemies-to-lovers romance and dark academia fantasy, featuring a mind-blowing journey through hell, where every level embodies sins like pride, desire, greed, wrath, and tyranny, alongside the infamous City of Dis. The story weaves together elements of mathematics, philosophy, and religion, enriched with fascinating anecdotes from Ancient Greek mythology. Alice Law, an ambitious and brilliant mind in Cambridge’s Magick field, accidentally kills her mentor by misdrawing a pentagram. Determined to bring him back, she embarks on a dangerous quest to hell—only to be joined by her arch-nemesis (and former crush), Peter Murdoch. Their mentor, Grimes, could be anywhere in the underworld, and as they navigate its treacherous levels, they encounter terrifying entities, battle monstrous creatures, and undergo hell’s grueling trials. Trapped in a relentless race against time, Alice and Peter must confront their tangled past, wavering between love and hate, while guarding dark secrets that could destroy them. The deeper they descend, the greater the danger—not just of losing their lives but of succumbing to the underworld itself. If their secrets come to light, will they escape hell unscathed, or will they be doomed to wander its eternal abyss, their memories erased forever? Overall: Words cannot capture how much I adored this book—it’s not just my favorite fantasy of the year but possibly the best book I’ve read all year! With its sharp academic wit, themes of abuse, existential questioning, self-respect, and the infinite choices that shape our lives, this novel masterfully blends intellectual depth with an addictive rivals-to-lovers romance. I can’t recommend it enough—add it to your reading list immediately, and prepare to be enthralled by its intricate, mysterious, and utterly unputdownable adventure. A huge thank you to NetGalley, Avon, and Harper Voyager for providing a digital review copy of this masterpiece in exchange for my honest thoughts! medium.com instagram facebook twitter

Potential Spoilers Ahead!!! Beneath the ancient stone walls of Cambridge University, Alice Law is pursuing a master’s degree in Analytical Magic. She’s smart and hardworking, but no matter how much effort she puts in, she just can’t seem to win the favor of her advisor, Professor Grimes - a powerful academic gatekeeper who basically controls the entire field. His biases and manipulations are like invisible spells, shaping the fate of his students. Those who don’t earn his approval, no matter how brilliant, often find themselves sidelined and forgotten. Then, during a magical experiment gone wrong, Grimes dies - and his soul ends up in hell. Alice originally just wanted to advance her academic career, but after his death, she makes a shocking decision: she offers up half of her remaining lifespan in exchange for a one - time trip to the underworld, hoping to bring Grimes back. Joining her is Peter Murdoch, another of Grimes’s students. He’s nothing like Alice - different personality, different beliefs - but in this journey, they become each other’s only lifeline. Their descent into the underworld - called Katabasis - takes them from one infernal hall to another, facing philosophical riddles, logical paradoxes, and trials of the soul. Along the way, they meet the Shades - spirits who were once victims of Grimes’s cruelty and deception. These souls are waiting for rebirth, and for justice. The more Alice sees, the more she starts to question her mission: why save someone who’s hurt so many? As the journey deepens, Alice’s goal quietly shifts. She no longer wants to rescue Grimes - she wants to bring Peter back with her. She realizes that the man she once idolized, the person she aspired to become, isn’t worth sacrificing her life for. Grimes belongs in hell. What she truly needs is to reclaim the part of herself she gave up chasing a false ideal. So this is a novel packed with intellectual weight. Reading it feels like you need a cheat code - math, logic, Greek mythology, philosophy… all these layers are woven into the story’s fabric. The title itself comes from Greek, meaning ”a journey into the underworld,” often referring to a hero or deity who ventures into the realm of the dead and returns with a loved one or deeper wisdom. So yeah, the title kind of spoils the plot - but in a poetic way. The book reminded me of the Kuang’s other works. In Yellowface, she takes aim at the publishing industry’s hypocrisy and gatekeeping. In Babel she goes full force against the colonial undertones of Oxford. And here in Katabasis, she turns her critique toward academia itself - specifically the toxic power dynamics between professors and students. Cambridge’s ivory tower isn’t sacred anymore; it’s a breeding ground for control and oppression. Kuang’s writing is wildly creative and ambitious. She blends Eastern and Western mythologies seamlessly: there’s Hell, but also Lord Yama; the River Lethe from Greek myth, and Meng Po from Chinese lore; Dante’s inferno meets traps set by the betrayed Weaver Girl. There’s Orpheus descending into the underworld for love, and now, students diving into hell for their professor. This cultural mashup is totally my thing - it’s rich, layered, and challenges how we perceive myth and meaning. So why does Alice insist on saving Grimes? By the end, I realized she wasn’t trying to save a person - she was chasing an ideal, a version of the future she thought she wanted. She was willing to give up everything for that imagined future, which is something a lot of us do. We sacrifice the present for a dream that might not even be real. When Alice finally sees Grimes for who he truly is - a morally bankrupt, mediocre academic who bullied and harassed students - she also sees through her own illusions. Her rescue mission becomes a personal reckoning. She’s no longer trying to save him; she’s trying to save herself. This journey through hell was never about him - it was always about her. Of course, with 2 young protagonists, romance is bound to show up. I get that. But Alice’s emotional shift felt a bit jarring - she goes from being laser - focused on academia to suddenly prioritizing being with Peter. It didn’t quite sit right with me. They’re brave enough to face death, yet too scared to admit their feelings? That trope felt a little tired, and didn’t fully match Alice’s character. That said, Kuang mentioned in an interview that this book was written for her husband - a brilliant, gentle man who even added her surname, Kuang, to his own. Knowing that, the romance feels more personal, more heartfelt. It’s a love letter between intellectuals, wrapped in myth and metaphor. As expected, Katabasis isn’t an easy read. It doesn’t cater to the casual reader or chase market trends. It demands knowledge, cultural awareness, and philosophical patience. But that’s exactly what makes it special. In a time when love is dismissed, literature is commodified, and knowledge is oversimplified, this book stands as a quiet rebellion. It’s not a book that’s easy to understand as well, but it’s one that deserves to be understood. It’s a literary descent, a spiritual journey, a conversation between self and world. And as I read it, I felt like I was going through my own Katabasis too. 4.6 / 5 stars

Where oh where to begin this review. I can usually rattle off my thoughts within minutes of finishing a book. This is the first time in a long, long time I've taken over a week to even try to gather my thoughts. To say it plainly - Katabasis is the sort of book to recalibrate something within me. A book that spoke to my very soul. I've always had such an intense love for the dark academia subculture, its themes often pulling on so many tangled, complicated emotions towards academia as both institution and romantic image in one. The indulgence of knowledge, paired with the stark contrast between an appreciation for the aesthetic vs the feverish, cult-like darkness that can often lurk behind closed doors, is a very specific feat to accomplish well - and Kuang proved she could manage it with Babel. With Katabasis, those same themes were achieved but with a shift in aim for its scathing criticism of academia, and with a stronger romance element too. After loving Babel, I hardly dared hope Katabasis would reach the same level of enjoyment. But it somehow, unbelievably, managed just that. Katabasis proved to be one of those rare books that felt personal somehow. For better or for worse, I saw parts of myself in Alice and Peter. I saw their flaws and hated them for it because I understood some of them all too closely, wanted to shake them knowing it'll get them nowhere. And I adore reading about insufferable characters if done right. Another balance Kuang manages effortlessly. Hand in hand with those characters are their backstories. While I don't wish to go into any amount of detail (admittedly, it's a large contributing factor to why I struggle to review or even talk about this book), one thing I didn't expect to find was a touch on chronic illness that was so succinct, yet so accurate to my own experience in academia, that I shut the book and stared at the wall for a long while. Not once have I heard or seen that particular experience from someone else. To use my own staircase analogy, it felt like I missed one step from the bottom - startling, yet comforted once the shock fades. While the moment in the story itself passed quickly, everything in me felt laid bare, and continued to be so throughout. It was humbling and overwhelming all at once. There's a lot of discourse around this book, grand expectations built up and readers daunted by the apparent homework it requires. Even if it'll ease one person to know - I don't think it's necessary. Of course, R.F. Kuang has a brilliant mind and there's no escaping that knowledge throughout. But just as she is a successful academic, she is a successful writer. She knows how to remind you of what's relevant, to break down the bones of her point to ensure readers understand enough to keep reading. I truly don't believe all the talk of philosophy and mythology and whatever other types of -ologies need to be all that daunting. It's Kuang's job to guide us through. She doesn't lock you in a philosophy lecture. It's a strange one, to have so many emotions tied to a book. I could prattle on for days (clearly). Equally, you could ask me my thoughts and I'd simply stop in my tracks. I know this book won't be for everyone. But it sure as hell* felt written for me. *Let's not get into how 'sure' hell is after reading this, eh?

Spoiler Free 5-min Review Video: https://youtu.be/9FuR90gz5n4 Personally I think this is Kuangs best book yet. I loved it. Katabasis is about two graduate students who journey into hell to try and save their advisors soul. It draws on Dante's Inferno and lots of philosophy, but I think it's a pretty accessible (albeit slower paced) book. This book has LAYERS but it gets at things like different ideas of the afterlife, the treatment of women and minorities in academia, academic and workplace abuse among others. It's smart and nuanced, and Alice is a great main character. I really feel like Kuangs character work has developed with this book and she nails the landing with how this ends. It is indeed a journey, both literally through the different parts of hell, and figuratively as our main character reflects on her life and grows. It's set in an alternate version of our world where magick exists and is an academic subject. I can't say too much about it without spoilers, but I absolutely recommend it! It's not a quick read - it's the kind of book that requires close attention and space to think. I read it over a couple of months and I'm glad I didn't rush it. That said, I DON'T think you need to have a background in philosophy or have read Dante's Inferno to enjoy and understand this. If you have read those things, you will probably get an added layer of depth, but it seems designed to be relatively accessible as long as you have some patience. Personally though, it's one of my favorite things I've read this year. I received a copy of this book for review from the publisher, all opinions are my own.

I have been equally eager and daunted to read this since its release. No more waiting. The time has come to enter the underworld… 😈 ‘Katabasis, noun, Ancient Greek. The story of a hero's descent to the underworld.’ 🖤 I LOVED this book SO very much 😭 Having read Kuang’s other books, I had high expectations and I have to say: this is my FAVOURITE yet! It was incredibly readable and compelling. I couldn’t put it down, demolishing it in just over a day! I didn’t really have any preconceived ideas about the plot but I was NOT expecting this…it was FAR better than I could have imagined! 👏🏽 Katabasis takes us on a wonderfully dark and absorbing journey through Hell. As we follow 2 rival Cambridge academics, Alice Law and Peter Murdoch, on this compelling expedition we learn also of their past, both together and apart. This story is laced with fascinating insights and a heavy dose of mischief 😈 “Alice Law, you naughty girl. You’re trying to go to Hell.” Dark academia at its FINEST 🙌🏽 Alice Law has one goal: to become the greatest mind in the field of analytic magick. Only problem is she needs her advisor, Professor Jacob Grimes, to make this dream a reality and he is very inconveniently dead; in Hell to be precise. Her only solution is to go to Hell and bring him back. But not without her greatest rival, Peter Murdoch. He isn’t letting her go there alone. As their journey through Hell continues, the past unravels itself, creating a clearer picture of what has brought them both to this point. The question is: will they survive Hell together, or die trying? I enjoyed this SO much more than Babel! It was much easier to follow, perhaps because our focus was predominantly on 2 MCs. Alice Law. My girl. I feel so seen. Honestly, I can’t express how much I related to her character. As someone who spent many years in higher education, thriving off the buzz of approval from my professors, I saw my story written in words I could never quite find. Furthermore, (without spoilers) I too have experienced many of the traumatic events that she underwent, and found myself with a very similar mindset to hers. The depression representation was SO accurately portrayed. Watching Alice’s character develop over the course of the story was so captivating and rather emotional 🥹 ‘Rituals helped. Keeping herself busy helped. She was not one of the depressives who lay stinking in bed; she could not just lie there, the stillness hurt worse. Moving staved the agony.’ 🖤 Peter. Oh Peter. How I despised you in the beginning. You were Alice’s greatest enemy and so you were mine 👀 I apologise sincerely. I was wrong about this one. He became my brilliant and equally mischievous nerd 🧐 His character development was off the charts 📈 Over the course of the story, his character shows a wonderful mix of fierce intelligence and a surprising loyalty. And after learning about his chronic illness 🙂‍↕️ I die. I felt SUCH an emotional connection to him. I felt his pain so deeply. Peter - you deserve the world young man. There were also some great characters that we met along the way. Elspeth being my favourite, Jacob Grimes being my most loathed. For me, the highlight of this book was the middle section; so often not the case. I thoroughly enjoyed every page but I loved how Kuang dove deep into the personal lives of Alice and Peter. I could resonate with them both SO much, feeling the pain of both of their stories. As a female academic, I related so much to Alice, and as someone with chronic illness, I felt understood and respected so much of what Peter experienced. This combined vulnerability and relatability really sold the book for me. However, the plot as a whole grabbed my attention. I felt instantly sucked into the storyline and the world-building was rapid, yet vividly clear. I loved the academic rivals to lovers theme that was based on high-stakes; it was literally life or death. Their constant banter and mischievousness was balanced perfectly with their reliance on each other. It was a JOURNEY in more ways than one. Overall, this was a fantastic dose of dark academia. Every aspect of the book was so well done. The plot unfolded at a perfect pace, constantly leaving me on edge, excited to see what was next 👀 The characters were phenomenal; up there with the best of them. And the rivals-to-lovers romance subplot? 🤌🏽 Finally, I loved how the story was deep-set in a fantasy world, yet had me thinking about my real life choices…Highly recommend! ‘Wickedness felt better when you had a coconspirator; otherwise it was just you and your conscience.’ 🤭🖤✨ 5🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟

4.75⭐️ Thank you SO MUCH to the amazing Harper Collins and their wonderful team for gifting me an ARC in exchange for an honest review. [I will probably be editing this over time] This one is for the classic lit fans, the Greek and Roman nerds, for the dark academia lovers and most importantly, this book is for the GIRLS. Katabasis is everything that it was promised. A story about 2 post grad students, Alice and Peter, who go to hell to bring back their professor because they need him to write a recommendation letter for them to get a job. This story is written in RFK fashion. And we know this because of the brilliant writing, the vivid imagery and her thought provoking prose. The dark academia was dark academiaing in this book. But this is unlike anything she’s written before. This is a very ADULT book with real world ADULT problems. There are words used in here that made me say “REBECCA. DID YOU REALLY JUST FUCKING WRITE THAT?!” I was not expecting some of the lines she threw at me. She said this book was the most emotionally hardest books she ever written and it very much shows. In Alice’s POV, RFK shows us how HARD it is to be a woman of color in a male dominated field. How women have to work 2-3 more harder to get the recognition they deserve. And how toxic the relationship is between an older professor and a young woman of color in the academia world. Also the subtle SHADE that Rebecca threw in here was CHEFS KISS Example 1: “Most schools had stopped offering magicians tenure when it came apparent that their research were more interested in the trivial and esoteric than producing anything useful or profitable…” - On this specific page, RFK writes how the field of “magick” and being a magician is something that’s kind of frowned upon. To me, in this particular part, Alice resembles RFK as an author/ writer. How people scrutinize her as an POC author. We see a little bit of this in Yellowface (the shade I’m referring to)and how publishing only pushes out what’s profitable and what’s in trend. Example 2: Peter: “… I don’t know, taking into account when they were written, and the author’s social context, and such.” Alice: “historicalization Murdoch, that’s what we call it. What, do you just take everything you read at face value?” - TO ME. This was RFK throwing shade at TPW haters. Call me delusional. Now let’s talk about the beautiful romantic subplot that had me giddy. Peter and Alice’s banter was so mf cute my heart could not handle. Peter is such a hot nerd. I literally want him to slap my hand and tell me to rewrite his name 8000 times. Now I did end up giving it 4.75 stars. And that’s becaussseeee IM A PUSSY ASS BITCH YALL. but also yall knew that right?! I do NOT read or watch horror and my number one fear in life is death. You gave me a horror book about what happens after death?? Yeah. I was scared and uncomfortable for 75% of this book. But the pay off was extremely worth it. Because why focus on what happens AFTER DEATH when you can focus on the NOW? If you’re not finding the goodness in life then are you really living? If you’re not happy then what is the point? “There was no answer, only wondrous and inexplicable grace, and the only thing to do in return was to simply live.” Other than the horror elements and the essential crisis the book put me through. The pay off was extremely worth it. I am very happy with it. And I cannot wait for everyone to read it.

ⵌ݁ 5 stars ★ ⤿ no spoilers.ᐟ you thought the world was one way and then it wasn’t. one could become zero. one could become two. a blink of an eye, and the fact of the matter was not. if the world could be fluid for you once, how many more times could you make it dance according to your whims? hell really is other people! this was fantastic, and i absolutely loved it. it's a book that's unapologetically pretentious, layered with mythology, philosophical conundrums, references to classical literature, history, and math. this is true dark academia, with discussions on classism, racism, misogyny, power dynamics, and the soul-sucking nature of academia. it discusses grief, and shows how abuse can twist someone's mind. there's depictions of depression, suicide, imposter syndrome, and being so fixated on something that you can't see life beyond it. there's no dramatic plot twists or extreme adventure—it's a quiet journey through hell with a lot of soul searching, both literally and figuratively. an unexamined life is not worth living, as socrates tells us. katabasis is the kind of book that needs to be read slowly and analyzed. it is info-dumpy and i LOVED it!! i was looking up stuff every few pages and i've learnt so much. you do not need to read dante's inferno or be a master in philoshopy to enjoy this book, everything is well explained and kuang's prose is incredibly accessible. “oh, the horror! oh, to not be clever” the magic system was so unique and interesting! it's built on paradoxes, math, and philosophical theories and involves chalk and pentagrams, which was so cool to read about. i'd read an entire textbook on this world. it was so fascinating how the magic was nothing supernatural or otherworldy—because math and philosophy is magic in itself, that when believed in, can tip the entire fabric of reality. to be a magician was to be that tortoise racing achilles; deluding himself, as the runner loomed larger behind him, that space and time would hang still so that he might stay ahead. the characters were incredibly realistic. alice and peter are both deeply flawed characters. alice is obsessed with academia, recognition, and glory, and that obsession is slowly destroying her. she has a lot of internalized misogyny and prejudices to unlearn. she is unlikable at times, and jumps to conclusions quickly, but she is utterly human. i won't say much about peter, because slowly learning about him and unpacking his character throughtout the book was the best part. they're both amazing characters—delusional and utterly fucked up. this book is an exploration of their psychology, of their deepest self. it truly feels like you are on this journey to hell with them. she would sacrifice her firstborn for a professorial post. she would sever a limb. she would give anything, so long as she still had her mind, so long as she could still think. alice and peter's emotional spiral was done so well. the narrative structure follows the classic hero's journey—they need to completely lose their minds, utterly break apart, sink to the lowest of the low, before they can start to rebuild themselves. they're on the verge of insanity since the beginning, trapped in the suffocating box of university, unable to focus on anything aside from success. and only when they go to hell and all structure and reasoning breaks apart can they finally unravel. “christ,” said peter. “hell is a campus.” this is a love story! alice and peter are true rivals to lovers. they know each other inside out, have seen the best and worst sides of themselves. they truly are made for each other. the romance is NOT a huge part of the story at all. no dramatic love confessions or makeouts in hell, sorry. it's there, but it is very much just a subplot, and that subplot is beautiful. i love them so much <3 she gazed at peter and thought, i wish i were the night, so that i might watch your sleep with a thousand eyes. i have SO many more thoughts but i don't think i can put them into words. overall, this was very clever, gripping, and a must-read. i will be thinking about this book for a long time. “lines that are parallel meet at infinity!” euclid repeatedly, heatedly, urged until he died. and so reached that vicinity: in it he found that the damned things diverged. —PIET HEIN, “PARALLELISM” · · ─ ·✶· ─ · ·

RF Kuang, the writer that you are. Yellowface, and then this??? I haven't even finished it yet but I could already rate it 5 stars. I'm DEVOURING it. PLEASE TELL ME MORE ABOUT PENTAGRAMS AND LOGIC AND PARADOXES AND HISTORY AND CAMBRIDGE AND WHATEVER YOU WANT TO TELL ME, JUST TELL ME. Especially about Peter. Tell me about Peter :)) I went it with humongous expectations and they were surpassed. * Later edit: finished. Gorg. And what an interesting magic system.

Katabasis is a University English student's dream come true. If I were still in graduate school, I would have written about it. Yes, understanding the ideas in this novel might be a hiccup for younger or less experienced readers unwilling to type allusions into google. But come on, the day that an author can no longer count on readers to take two seconds to bloody well look up elementary allusions is the same day I'll lose interest in reading. You don't need a background in the western and eastern literary canons to enjoy a book with allusions--you just need to be willing to look up whatever you don't recognize. Brief Summary: Alice Law and Peter Murdoch, both Cambridge graduate students in the most challenging field of magical studies, transport themselves to Hell in order to rescue their deceased academic advisor, Professor Grimes. This particular professor is one of the most respected scholars in his field, and without him, both students feel that all of their academic toiling will have been wasted. So despite the steep price, they magic themselves into Hell. The majority of the novel details the various realms of Hell through which Alice and Peter must travel. Extended Metaphor, Wit & Humor: Surely by now, you are wondering if this book is an updated version of Dante. Nope. Of course Dante's works are referenced, but this novel is essentially a conceit--one giant allegorical metaphor--and it absolutely oozes the most delicious wit. When I first started, I had no idea that I was in for such fantastic hilarity. I hadn't read anything about the humor here at all. But the puns begin immediately, and it quickly becomes obvious that Kuang is making fun of everything we take too seriously. If as a student this ever applied to you, if you endured countless sleepless nights in service to your grade point average, if you poured over practice sites to obtain perfect standardized test scores and revised obsessively to win academic awards and scholarships; then this novel is your chance for catharsis...your chance to laugh. In Katabasis, Kuang takes on academia, the western canon, and even America. I laughed out loud at least once every three pages, and the moment I hit the last page, I flipped right back to the beginning for a reread. Style & Structure: Kuang's prose here is expertly sculpted. In fact, Katabasis represents an improvement over her prose style in Babel. She seems to have completely mastered organically allowing the sentence structure to imitate the tone and thus influence the reader's mood. Her diction, never high handed and never purple, is exquisitely measured and timed. One of my favorite opening sections details why our protagonist intends to make a quite dangerous rescue attempt. She introduces the local color of her magic system with several eclectic names for laws and principles, makes several subtly humorous allusions to Dante and TS Elliott. And then, at the end of the paragraph, Kuang adds bluntly and plainly, "this meant she had to go to hell, and she had to go today." It's the first time such simple diction has been used in this paragraph, and it's just the perfect touch. Another example of Kuang's evolved use of organic structure occurs when she uses repetition to emote exactly the opposite of what is said. To clarify, when Kuang offers exposition on Alice's conflict, she repeats the opening phrase of descriptive sentences. "No one saw" Alice's involvement in her professor's death, and "no one saw" when she took off her bloody clothes, and "no one saw" her incinerate them. The phrase "no one saw" is repeated multiple times throughout the paragraph. It's repeated so often that readers begin to doubt the validity of the phrase. They begin to understand that Alice is worried about just the opposite--that someone must have seen. Each time the phrase is repeated, the anxiety builds. Readers sincerely feel Alice's fear, her need to reassure herself, and the emotion is so much stronger because it is indirectly conveyed by structure instead of being merely stated. Kuang's prose depicts exactly the artistry possible when authors wield a mastery of grammar and form. There's nothing pedantic or even didactic in the descriptions. They are just as carefully crafted as the sentence structure. Ignore the one star reviews that say otherwise. This is the sort of novel that belongs on Locus Award nomination lists. Katabasis is literature. Further Thoughts: Kuang's books have always offered readers a carefully laid out symbology. But Katabasis is next level. Her motifs weave thematic layers upon layers so perfectly that the ending tapestry is a marvel. Bluntly, I can't even understand how brilliant one would have to be to pull off something like this. It's that sort of book--the sort you want to spend months deconstructing just so you can polish your own awe into language. I had not originally intended to write a review for this one, mainly because it's already so widely reviewed, but I have seen such a baffling smear campaign against what is essentially Kuang's most impressive work to date, that I felt compelled after a second reading to throw in my two cents. I really urge fantasy lovers, especially academic fantasy lovers, not to miss out. Of all the hardcovers on which I have spent far too much coin, this is one first edition I will never regret. This book is beautiful beyond its colorful jacket and sprayed edges. Bottomline: If you are a reader of literature, then you will love this book. If you are used to the average national bestseller, no problem--you can still love this book. Just go into it with a search engine at the ready and take your time. It's worth it.

੭୧ 5 stars . ۫ “ But why— ” He stopped himself, then rephrased. “ But then you came for nothing. ” “ Not nothing. I gained everything. ” It's not enough to just read Katabasis. I need it embedded in my matter 😣‼️ overall thoughts — This book is living proof that reading is subjective, because the fact that Katabasis - one of the most brilliant, deeply researched, and thought-provoking novels I've read to date - sits at a 3.78 rating, while a certain wildly popular novel Shatter Me, a 3.84, is unfathomable. Regardless, R.F. Kuang has clearly found her niche and perfected her craft!! With every release, I continue to be left in disbelief by her capabilities. It's impossible not to feel the blood, sweat, and tears that went into creating Alice and Peter's story. I believe this book makes for a better read by going in blindly, so I'll keep plot details short. Katabasis follows Alice Law and Peter Murdoch, two postgraduate students and academic rivals, who descend into Hell to retrieve the soul of their dead professor. We get to see Alice and Peter's journey through the 8 Courts of Hell, which resemble a university campus. One of the most honest things Katabasis says about academia is that the system only values the mind, and it treats the body as an inconvenience. In Alice's world, hunger is normal, exhaustion is expected, pain is ignored. The body is something to push through or sacrifice in the name of "brilliance." And the worst part is that no one explicitly forces this on her - she internalizes it. That mindset is exactly what turns academia into Hell. A lot of people criticize the novel by saying Hell was boring, it had no stakes, nothing dangerous really happens. But I think that misses the point. The tension in this book, to me at least, doesn't really present itself as "will they survive?" It's about watching Alice slowly realize that everything she's sacrificed her life for might be meaningless. As Alice and Peter go through Hell, rather than feeling exciting, it feels almost slow and draining. This to me perfectly mirrors academia because academia destroys people slowly, through exhaustion, pressure, and the constant feeling of never being enough. The next biggest complaint I've come across is that Katabasis is pretentious - R.F. Kuang spends so much time referencing + explaining different theories, writers, concepts, and in turn sacrifices the development of her characters (I'll comment on the latter below). First, if I went to Oxford, Cambridge, and Yale while writing 6 best-selling novels, I promise I would be infinitely worse. R.F. Kuang deserves to brag!! Being in academia is difficult as Hell (literally)!! And honestly, I am not ashamed to say there were so many terms and ideas I did not understand. It's a learning opportunity. Katabasis doesn't spoon-feed its readers, and that seems to be where a lot of frustration comes from. I don't know what non-Euclidean geometry is. What is a dialetheia? What is a syllogism? Having these unfamiliar ideas didn't ruin the experience for me. Maybe Google something. Maybe crack open a dictionary. I thoroughly enjoyed all the academic references and tidbits of knowledge. I think that's what makes the book unique and engaging. And what's more. Even if you strip away all the theory, all the references, all the philosophy - Katabasis is still fun. I laughed. I cried. I was invested the entire time. I loved the characters. I loved the ending. A book can be entertaining and enriching. The two are not mutually exclusive. I've always appreciated Kuang's ability to write characters who aren't morally perfect, and Alice is definitely her 2nd best example of that (Fang Runin is just unmatched). She's messy, obsessive, stubborn, and painfully sincere. Somehow, she's also incredibly likeable (contrary to what people say). Peter, too, I adored. Peter follows Alice to Hell partly out of obligation, partly out of guilt, and partly because he doesn't know how to stop orbiting her. Their romance is definitely not traditional (as the author mentions), but I personally felt their connection DOES NOT lack depth. A lot of their relationship is developed in Hell, and that choice makes sense because it is where they are able to mutually recognize and understand the toxic system that shaped them. Their relationship + the way it unfolded worked for me because it felt realistic for who they are: two deeply damaged people clinging to the only person who sees them clearly. I loved reading from Alice's perspective. I loved AlicePeter's interactions. My idiotic, crazy duo 😣😣 final thoughts — You don't need to be in academia to enjoy this novel. And again, I can't stress this enough: this book was fun. I never felt like I had to drag myself through the book - I wanted to keep reading. Obviously, reading is subjective, so what entertained me might not entertain others, but I think that a lot of reviews focus too heavily on this idea of pretentiousness and less on how Katabasis is a good book. CW: misogyny, abuse, death, ableism, blood, gore, grooming, suicide, sexual abuse, eating disorder, murder ⋆ ⋆ ⋆ ⋆ ⋆ ⋆ finished: 02/08/26 my roman empire!! every crevice and corner of rf kuang's mind is filled with brilliance. straight to the favourites shelf this goes...are we even surprised? pre read: 02/01/26 opinions shift, stars move, and things change, but my love for rf kuang will always remain a constant in my life <3 can't wait to rate this 5 stars (there's no other option).

i’m in pieces, sobbing at the mere perfection of this novel. rtc when i can collect my thoughts, but all of my already impossibly high expectations were exceeded in explosive fashion. remarkable, truly remarkable. new favourite r.f. kuang novel and the book to beat this year - maybe even this decade.

2026 RE-READ: Just fascinating!!! I love the complexity of this story and how entertaining it is. For me, it keeps being just as the title says: “TO HELL WITH LOVE” 😍🔥😈 ———————————————————————————————— This book is a satire and kind of an absurdist fiction. A mixture between Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, Nettle and Bone, The Divine Comedy, and Orpheus & Eurydice. Paradoxes, cognitive semiotics, philosophy of mind, mathematical thinking, and thermodynamics that turn into the magic system of this quirky academic setting in Cambridge. There’s a lot of academic stuff that’s related to how postgraduate students usually feel or think due to the stressful environment they’re in; always in a race, always needing founding, tuition and recognition in order to make a career. Those who have been there will understand the weight on your shoulders. Also, as the cover says “to hell with love” is the core statement of the plot. The story shows the backgrounds of several characters, and also explains why and how they went to hell. However, be ready to submerge yourself in a different kind of hell where physics and logic meet in an impossible conundrum with chalk, yes, chalk! There are random characters in the book that somehow turn quite important for the development of the plot, and also a cat, which isn’t Schrödinger’s cat, but I would say it’s pretty much an allegory of it! It’s not a chill reading, so get cozy and go meet an unorthodox Mephistopheles!

Quentin Tarantino wowed me with his book “Cinema Speculation”, a wonderful nonfiction book about the movies that made Tarantino the man and the director he is today. It was a gorgeous thought-provoking love-letter to cinema of a specific era, that era being the late-‘60s and early-‘70s. I picked up his novelization of his film “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood”, but I honestly didn’t think I was going to like it, for two main reasons: 1) I honestly believed that Tarantino’s brilliance in “Cinema Speculation” was a one-off, not necessarily because I didn’t think he could pull off another excellent book or that he couldn’t possibly be as talented of a novel-writer as he was a screenwriter or director, but simply because I thought that “Cinema Speculation” was so good that it would be hard for him to replicate it. (Never mind, of course, that “OUATIH” was published a year BEFORE “Cinema Speculation”, but whatever…) and 2) I had seen the movie “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood” and, while I enjoyed it (I’ll be honest: there hasn’t been a Tarantino movie I haven’t enjoyed), I felt that it was his most flawed film to date and I had problems with the ending, that being the “fairy tale” alternate reality ending in which the lovely Sharon Tate et al. at 10050 Cielo Drive, Los Angeles, CA were not brutally murdered by four brainwashed hippies under the insane orders of Charles Manson. Honestly, I shed a few tears at the end, knowing that Tarantino’s ending was bullshit but also knowing that I wish it had happened the way Tarantino envisioned it, which, I know, was most likely his point. So, I read the novelization. I need to say it: it’s excellent. Fucking brilliant. And it’s also not a novelization. It’s a novel, and a damn good one. It also has very little resemblance to the film. A few scenes from the film made it into the book, but there were a lot of scenes I don’t remember seeing. (I have a feeling some of these scenes show up on the DVD bonus features or in a “Director’s Cut” version that I have not seen yet.) The book is so different from the film that they are almost two separate entities with only the barest of similarities. This is, in my opinion, a positive. Tarantino has written a novel that tells a beautiful story about the death of Old Hollywood, the big-studio machine that essentially controlled and helped create the City of Angels. He tells it in the story of has-been actor Rick Dalton (played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film), stuck in the weird limbo period of the late-‘60s when big-studio Hollywood was transitioning to the New Wave of the ‘70s, in which a slew of independent and European filmmakers would reshape the market and the entire film industry in less than a decade. There’s little to no room for old-school actors like Dalton, condemned to playing guest appearances as villains on TV westerns and cop shows. His alcoholism doesn’t help. Thankfully, he has Cliff Booth, his former stunt man/current driver/best friend (played by Brad Pitt in the film). Cliff is a good guy, if one can forgive his past transgressions, which include murdering several people including his wife and getting away with it. Both men represent a dying breed, struggling to hold on to the only world they know and pushing back against all the crazy changes they see in the world around them, changes that they secretly know that they need to embrace in order to keep going in Tinsel Town. I’m not sure why Tarantino chose to downplay the violence and the emphasis on the Manson Family in the novel, but it was, in the end, the right decision. This book is not about Charles Manson or the murder of Sharon Tate. It’s about Rick and Cliff. I don’t care what the fuck Tarantino writes about in his next book, but I sure as fuck look forward to reading it.

I started reading this book late afternoon yesterday as soon as it arrived through my door and I’ve just finished it while compiling a list of every movie that was mentioned in the book at the same time (144 films, if you’re interested in the number). It’s hard to compare the book to the film, they exist in almost two separate tales while still retaining an air of familiarity as we know scenes, characters and even some portions of dialogue from the film. The book still uses Tarantino’s brilliant non-linear story telling but gives insight into those smaller stories from the film like what happened to Cliff’s wife? how did he get Brandy? and lots more. A movie nerds dream, this book describes in situations vivid detail with some very niche references to other films. It’s clear that the research Tarantino did for Once from an historical perspective comes to good use here, with old Hollywood tales and detailed knowledge of shops, roads and bars from the era. An absolutely enjoyable companion to the film, that digs deeper into the characters of Rick and Cliff helping to flesh out their throughly engaging back stories with tons of detail. I only hope that if Tarantino does stop directing after his 10th movie that we still get books like this, maybe we’ll even get a novel of that long awaited Vega Brothers story? now wouldn’t that be cool.

It seems pointless to try to critically assess ONCE UPON A TIME IN HOLLYWOOD, the novel re-imagination of Quentin Tarantino's screenplay and film, by conventional criteria. If you're reading it, you're not thinking about theme or concerning yourself with three-act structure or character arc. You're either into what Tarantino is into, or you'e not. You;'re either turning the pages of this boook with sheer delight, or you're not. Me, I'm into what Tarantino is into, as someone close to his age who shares his interest in a certain corner of a certain cultural time and place. And I turned each page with delight and also a running dread of running out of pages. So, by that criteria, ONCE UPON A TIME IN HOLLYWOOD was a five-star experience for me. By other criteria, I think so too. Was it well-written? Well, the sentences are readable and full of fun stuff, and never lay flat on the page, even though there are long passages that read like Wikipedia entries. Again, if you love the subject, you'll devour the Wikipedia page on the subject, most likely. So my reactions to ONCE UPON A TIME IN HOLLYWOOD take the form of bullet points: 1. Why hasn't this been done more often? Why have unadapted screenplays developed into successful films not also been written as novels by their authors? Why has the work of the tie-in novel always been treated as a piece of downmarket hackwork on the level of the-in McDonalds drinking glasses to downmarket hack writers? Why wouldn't, say, Robert Towne write CHINATOWN, the novel? Or Joe and Ethan Coen write THE BIG LEBOWSKI, the novel? Why would that have been seen as an undesirable thing to do, or even beneath their artistic dignity? Tarantino really shouldn't be the first owner of a story for the screen to seize upon this idea. 2. As has been pointed out elsewhere, this is not a faithful reproduction of the screenplay. That would be boring, and I suspect Tarantino knew it. No, he simply developed the parts of ONCE UPON A TIME IN HOLLYWOOD that he personally found most interesting, as is his perfect right to do, and downplayed the stuff he was less interested in. You won't find much about the big showdown between Cliff Booth and Rick Dalton and the murderous Manson disciples bent on "doing the Devil's business." But you will find even more interesting stuff, like Charles Manson's obsession with becoming a produced singer-songwriter rock star. Like Cliff Booth's history of homicide. Like just how much Rick Dalton had on the line when he did that guest spot as the villain on the pilot episode of LANCER in February 1969, and how his character's own challenges brought painful weight to bear on his own. You'll get to see more of Trudi Frazier, the little girl who plays the Lancer daughter, and not just during her shooting days with Rick, but what the decades ahead hold for her. (Hint: She is nominated three times for an Academy Award, her final time in 1999 as the female lead in "Quentin Tarantino's remake of John Sayles's script for the gangster epic The Lady In Red," opposite Michael Madsen as John Dillinger. She lost to Hilary Swank forBoys Don't Cry." 3. For those of you who have problems with how Quentin Tarantino depicts women, you won't find anything in this novel to change your mind. ONCE UPON A TIME IN HOLLYWOOD is a story in which men are men and women are precious gems, bitches or whores, and no apologies are made for that mindset. Whether that's a reflection of the mindset of Tarantino or the mindset of its time and place is an argument I will leave to others. I certainly cringed at a lot of these passages, particularly the ones in which Cliff Booth doesn't feel particularly bad about inflicting a particularly nasty and lingering death on his wife. 4. Think about something: Of the novels you thunk are great, how amny do you think are great in part or sum because they're fun? Can a great novel be fun? Can a story that tickles you almost nonstop also be one that makes you think and engage with deeper with themes? Or are those two ideas necessarily exclusive? My experience with ONCE UPON A TIME IN HOLLYWOOD was this: I was tickled to my toes,, and I'm thinking a lot about how art is made, how entertainment is manufactured, and how dreams and nurtured and neglected and often sacrificed on thei= altar of the devils that also inhabit the vessel that cultivate them. And yet, it was a bottomless bag of buttered and salted popcorn. I don't understand how those things can co-exist; I just know that they do, and I suspect it's because Quentin Tarantino is so filled with joy about what he gets to do and do well that you can't help getting caught up in the current of his sunlit obsessions. I guess I don't have a problem with that. Not in a world where greatness seems to ride dark-shadowed shotgun alongside grimness. That may give the story gravitas, but it doesn't give it delight. 5. ONCE UPON A TIME IN HOLLYWOOD is proof of something I've long believed: Stars aren't interesting; fallen stars are. As are people on their periphery. The struggle is baked in; the three-act structure practically builds itself. To wit, to borrow an example from Rick and Cliff's time: I wouldn't much be interested in a biography of Paul Newman and Robert Redford, because they have a flat arc once they became stars, because they became stars. But I'd be utterly absorbed by a biography of, say, George Peppard or James Stacy, both of who have incredibly interesting true stories threaded into their downfalls from short-lived stardom. Stars play interesting people, but that doesn't make THEM interesting people. People who have to struggle to overcome themselves to keep one nostril afloat? Their stories are the ones I want. And I love that Quentin Tarantino knows this, and agrees. 6. ONCE UPON A TIME IN HOLLYWOOD also passes my personal two-part test for a great novel: a) Is it insanely quotable? Is it all you can do to keep from copying-and-pasting whole passages and sharing them with the world? b) Would you love the story if it were twice as long? Would you be happily immersed in the world it inhabits for as long as your imagination — and the that of the creator — could possibly take it? For me, the answer to both questions is "yes." And for those reasons above all, ONCE UPON A TIME IN HOLLYWOOD is a great novel in my eyes.

Found this to be absolutely delightful. The Aldo Ray chapter! The Cliff Booth back story! The alternate versions of and perspectives on events from the film! The deep dive into the careers of journeyman filmmakers and '70s television! I probably won't revisit this as much as I have the film itself, but I will revisit this for sure. God, what a fucking gift.

I found this book difficult to review, as I don't want to review Tarantino himself. To address the elephant in the room, QT isn't for everybody. I remember seeing people walk out of Pulp Fiction back in the day. I also think DiCaprio and Pitt are over-hyped, but I digress. As you can tell, I'm going the random thought, asides, and dream sequences route, here. I wonder if Rick Dalton's name is some sort of homage to The Dalton Gang. One of the surviving brothers, after getting out of prison, became a Hollywood actor, starring as his own dead brother. Known liar Al Jennings parlayed a reputation as an outlaw into Hollywood fame and fortune. Real life outlaw Henry Starr, had a short, successful film career before the industry moved to Hollywood. He ended up getting shot while trying to hold up a store. Is Booth somehow a homage to John Wilkes Booth? Sharon Tate is much more present in the movie than in the book, while Charles Manson is more present in the book than in the movie. One of the things I liked about the movie, is that it gave some life to Tate, who is only remembered as a beautiful victim. The guy they cast as Manson didn't really look or sound like Manson to me. Manson always struck me as a scary Willie Nelson. One time, I had a dream where Orson Welles went on a toot and made an 8 day western back in the 40's, and I helped rediscover it, only to find it was terrible. One thing QT emphasizes, but we've all seemed to forget, is how filthy and unhygenic hippies actually were back then. They've had quite a cleaning up over the decades. The music criticism is pretty good. A lot of great songs sort of fall through the cracks of oldies radio. Cliff Booth really is a protagonist from a Fawcett Gold Medal novel. The "controversy" over the Bruce Lee scene is overblown. Bruce Lee didn't lose anything. QT handled the twitter mob the way they should be handled. The Bruce Lee portrayed here seems like the guy who completely pranked Burt Ward during the Batman/Green Hornet team up. I didn't think of it before, but both Bruce Lee and Charles Manson had cults of personality, and had to work to keep them. QT seems to have his own personality cult, so I'd imagine he knows how they work. The story of how Rick Dalton was on "the list" of actors to get McQueen's part in The Great Escape captured my imagination. As Dalton goes through the list, and says when they get to the end, they'd make a new list, I created my own: Bob Conrad, Bob Culp, Bob Vaughn, and Burt Reynolds. Then they'd give the part to Nick Adams. Who is on your list? I've often thought Howard Hawks should have made a Rio Bravo knock off with John Wayne and Bruce Lee. Instant classic.

it’s way funnier and better written than it has any right to be

Fantastic. I really wish he would do a novelization for Kill Bill and expand on that story.

Great book so far! Punchy dialogue and fabulous insights into the world of 1960s Hollywood. Tarantino never disappoints, but his novel is punchy, witty and clever. Different from the film, offering a larger story and more character development. This is the guy that made me want to be an author after I read his screenplays, and his first novel is easily a masterpiece!

Your view on this book will depend on your taste for old Hollywood and movie trivia, and whether or not you like Quentin Tarantino. If you do, you're in for a good time! The movie of the same name is one of Tarantino's best, and the book adds depth and back story to the film characters, as well as having some fun with plot expectations- it does not follow the film, although most of what happens in the film happens here in a different order and context. Very clever, amusing and harking back to a different time, with the usual Tarantino mix of bad language, violence, sex and shock factor. Great fun.

I have so much to say about this book I don’t know where to start. I will resist my urge to talk about the plot or story at all and instead focus on three other things which I think are even more important: 1. The reading setting. The setting? Yeah, I mean where you are when you’re reading. This is a 400-page drugstore paperback movie novelization of an R-rated movie. So I have to say when I read it I felt like a teenager in the 70s reading something exciting and vulgar and thrilling and sultry and wild in the wee hours before turning off the nightlight. Because can I ask: When was the last time you read a drugstore paperback movie novelization? Forty years ago? Never? And yet: it totally worked to mentally transport me on completely other plane. (For those of you in bookselling or publishing you get the gall and gumption required in putting a book in this format at $9.99.) It felt so classic Tarantino to reinvent yet another form after gangster movies, Blaxploitation films, Kung Fu sagas, and spaghetti westerns. Might this book singlehandedly lift up an entire genre? Could we all be buying movie novelizations of our favorite films in December? Maybe! 2. No moralizing. It seems like these days we often see morals placed above story. Was the person good? Did they do the right thing? Or can they become good? Can they learn to do the right thing? We live in such a “you gotta do it this way” society that if you say the wrong thing you’re quickly outcast. Well, there’s no moralizing here! And it’s so refreshing. Tarantino is a master storyteller writing in service of story alone. Characters say horrible things, character do horrible things, and they don’t necessarily grow at all – or, at least, in the ways you might expect. Some scenes may make you wince, others cause your heart to fly, but if you’re like me you’ll keep flipping because the story is just so propulsive. The swerves and curves feel like riding a waterslide. 3. Unapologetic geekfest. Are you a bit of nerd? Do your friends think of you as the person who could easily geek out on some inane topic for twenty minutes at the party? I feel like the answer is yes since you’re 381 words into a book review right now that you're presumably reading just for fun. Well then you'll love this book for the sheer quantity of lore. I’ve always considered myself a movie fan but after reading this book I feel I can confidently elevate that label a tiny notch towards aficionado. Quentin manages to share a wobbly mirrored mix of factual and revisionist history of cinema and half the fun is trying to spot the difference. Feels like you're being read Trivial Pursuit questions by Vladimir Nabokov. Bottom line: For those who’ve seen the movie, the book is different. For those who haven’t, you don’t need to. And for both, I’m going to come right out and say that, in my view, the book is better. (Don't worry: You can still picture Brad Pitt if you want to -- and he gets a lot more than topless in the book.) This is a fun and wild book I highly recommend. And I just feel so excited as a reader and book lover that Quentin Tarantino says he will spend his time after making his tenth and final film "becoming a man of letters... that's how I want to spend my twilight years." Full disclosure: I received the book for free from HarperCollins before it was published so I could read it before interviewing him on 3 Books (my podcast).

I am honestly stumped that I loved this so much, but that's how it is. I approached this one tentatively but with much curiosity. I am generally not a fan of Tarantino's films, and I have very little regard for the majority of his fans. But I was keen to see Once Upon a Time in Hollywood as I thought the premise sounded really cool, especially as it ended with the brutal murder of Sharon Tate, which I thought was a perfect and poetic subversion of his usually pro-violence message. However, I was foolish to think he would stick to what really happened, and after learning this, I watched the final showdown with the hippies in Cliff's house on YouTube, was not impressed or remotely surprised at the once-again juvenile indulgence of blood and savagery, and thought nothing more of the film after that. However, when I came across this book the other day, not realising he had written a novel for it too, but also remembering years ago that he once said he was interested in writing novels, I decided to try it out. And yes - a resounding yes! - this is actually bloody brilliant. Tarantino tells what is apparently the same story as the film, but with more depth and exploration into the characters of Cliff and Rick, and to a lesser extent the angelic Sharon Tate. It still has its less savoury moments, and I guess you have to be willing to accept that sometimes his much greater experience as a screen-writer shows through. But I honestly loved this. It was funny; it was intriguing; it was, in my opinion, the most passionate and creative he has ever been; and, most surprising of all, it was sometimes unapologetically touching. I also loved Cliff's character. I mean, he's not a lovely person by any means. But he's the most old-fashioned and squarish of all Tarantino's heroes. Also I couldn't not love the numerous jabs at the 1960s hippie culture. Am I being too kind here in giving the book five stars? Maybe. It could very well be that my expectations were low. And so this might turn out to be one of those books I initially award a rare five stars, only to demote it to a more moderate rating further down the line (as happens very occasionally). At this point though, whether in relation only to itself, or as a meta-fiction/alternative-history novel in the broader sense, I thought this was really excellent. I hope Tarantino turns his attention towards writing novels more throughout the rest of his career.

This review in video format is here: https://youtu.be/vzzMUk7B4Kk Brandon Sanderson is a storming genius. Rhythm of War is another scintillating masterpiece in The Stormlight Archive series—one of my top favorite series of all time, and easily the best ongoing series right now. I truly believe that the words contained in The Stormlight Archive will continue to establish the series as one of the most important series for epic fantasy. It’s been three years since Oathbringer was released, and there’s no sign of Sanderson’s name and fame disappearing into oblivion. It’s the other way around; Sanderson has gotten more and more popular within the past three years even though no Cosmere novels were being published within this period. And here we are once again, Knight Radiants. Rhythm of War, the fourth book in The Stormlight Archive, is here. At roughly 458k words, this penultimate volume to the first out of two sequences of the series is also the second biggest novel—the first being the 471k words of The Stand: Complete & Uncut Edition by Stephen King—I’ve ever read so far. For the first time ever in the series, instead of continuing seamlessly from where the previous installment left off, Rhythm of War continues a year after the end of Oathbringer. But first, in a similar fashion to the previous three books, Rhythm of War starts with a prologue that shows the Assassination of King Gavilar; this time we get to witness the event from the POV of Navani’s. It’s so impressive; I’ve seen this event happened four times now, Gavilar is on its way to becoming Uncle Ben and Bruce Wayne’s parents at this point, and yet every retelling of this specific incident from a different point of view managed to bring forth a different and crucial piece of information. There are also a few changes in storytelling structure being done here; each book in The Stormlight Archive usually begins a slow-burn that leads to an explosive middle and final section; Sanderson launched Rhythm of War with an early Sanderlanche that lasted for about 100 pages long, and this successfully created the best Part I of the series so far. Just within the first 20% of the book, Sanderson has started moving the many pieces of his stories incredibly well; heartbreaking scenes have occurred, the development in the power of the Radiants was demonstrated, and I was already emotional. I am that attached with the series, and the strongly evident themes of the series—family, conviction, friendship, honor, loyalty, cooperation—that returned once again successfully pierced my feelings throughout the entire tome. But before I get to the core of why Rhythm of War, or The Stormlight Archive really, is so special, I would like to get my small grievances with the book out of the way first. I think the sooner you know about this, the better your reading experience will be. As you can probably predict, I genuinely loved Rhythm of War, but was it a perfect book? I will have to say no. Part III of Rhythm of War was the first time in the series that I actually felt that the book should’ve been shortened. I found several scenes in Part III to be a slog to get through. True, important events and development did transpire in this section, but the way the story is being written here felt repetitive, and frankly, too long for its own good. Plus, Venli & Eshonai’s flashback chapters, which started at Part III and lasted throughout the whole book, were just far inferior compared to the flashback chapters of the previous three books. To be fair, it is tough to write flashback chapters that rivaled Kaladin’s or Dalinar’s, and I’m going to be lenient about this. Fortunately, these are small parts of the tome; the awesomeness of Part I, II, IV, and V remarkably overshadowed my issue with Part III. I’m not kidding; Sanderson showcases why he’s one of the most highly-praised storytellers in the genre right now. The answers he gave and the questions he repeatedly provided actually blew my mind non-stop. This ridiculously high level of plotting—especially if you’re caught with all Cosmere novels, but more on this later—can only be fully realized by the greatest of authors who actually know what they’re doing with their story, characters, and worlds with utmost confidence. The burst of mind-blowing revelations he forwarded to his readers in Part IV and V, and the rewarding feelings bestowed for our investment in everything about his books, are simply unforgettable. And THIS exhilarating consistency of high-quality storytelling that Sanderson constantly achieved has once again been proved with temerity here. How? His extremely well-written characters and world-building. Ever since I finished Words of Radiance, Kaladin Stormblessed has become one of my favorite protagonists of all time. This isn’t exclusive to fantasy novels, but out of all mediums of speculative fiction that I’ve experienced so far. And Rhythm of War somehow strengthened this notion further. For the last decade, we’ve known that Kaladin is afflicted with heavy depression and PTSD, and despite them he fought and fought. But the amount and intensity of the mental torture he has to endure within this book were lunatic. And yet he continues to fight and help people the best way he can despite his weaknesses, and I am simply amazed by his journey. His feelings and pain felt raw and real to me, and from my perspective, he has become a real friend and leader that I understand. Also, on the topic of Kaladin, I would like to encourage people to be more compassionate. Depression is more pervasive in our society lately; for the past few years, I’ve seen several readers calling Kaladin being depressed and struggling through his depression as pathetic, and I must say that’s really too harsh. I’m not saying that you have to like his character, reading will always be a subjective experience after all, but if you already know he has depression and yet still call him pathetic for his struggle, I sincerely hope you don’t ever treat real individuals with depression that way. Additionally, if you want to read about main characters who are fearless and good at everything, you’re not getting one from The Stormlight Archive. I hope Kaladin’s story and the relationship he has nurtured with Syl and the crew of Bridge Four—which deserve their own book, by the way—throughout the series so far will inspire all of us to be more empathetic. This display of magnificent characterizations and development aren’t solely applicable to Kaladin, Syl, and the crew of Bridge Four. The biggest surprise for me was how much I grew to love both Shallan and Adolin’s story here. For those of you who know me, I think you know that I have mixed feelings regarding Shallan’s character development; to put it simply, I didn’t like how rude she was towards Kaladin in Oathbringer. But I might have underestimated Shallan’s difficulty in overcoming her past trauma, and now I have to admit that I’m thoroughly impressed and hooked by her story. This is hugely pleasant to me; I never want to dislike her character, and in this book, I actually wanted more of her and Adolin’s story. Her story was captivating, and the character development unveiled through her abilities were stunningly good. Then there’s also Adolin’s oozing positivity, optimism, and kindness which is purely precious, and this doesn’t mean that he’s not afraid to do the hard choice if it’s the right course of action. I absolutely loved their storyline; there’s no dull moment in Shallan and Adolin’s story, not even for one page. ‘Trial by Witness’ is one of my favorite chapters in the book, and their story arc contains some of the most wonderful and tension-packed scenes of the entire novel. And I’m so grateful that the almost-love-triangle subplot initiated in Oathbringer has been completely thrown away. Then there’s also Navani’s impressive character development; I feel like this is more of her book rather than Eshonai/Venli’s, and I honestly wouldn’t mind having more of her being in the spotlight. It was super intriguing seeing her inspects and do research on fabrials, sprens, and most importantly, her interaction with Raboniel was one of the key strengths of Rhythm of War. I’m not kidding; Raboniel is not only Sanderson’s most well-written antagonist so far but also one of the best antagonists I’ve ever read. The dynamic and chemistry of their interaction with each other in the pursuit of science, truth, and knowledge were magically compelling, complex, humane, and fascinating to me. What I do appreciate most from the world-building, though, would have to be the increasing blend of fantasy and technology. I’ve heard from several fantasy readers who are fixed on the idea that fantasy should have as minimum technology—or maybe none—as possible in the world, and magic should have no rules at all; I disagree with this. There’s, of course, nothing wrong if a specific reader prefers that in their fantasy books, but personally speaking, I found this to be a limitation to the genre. Fantasy is a genre that’s brimming with limitless potential, and if done believably and fitting to the narrative, the combination of magic with science/technology can conjure exceptional results. And that’s what Sanderson achieved in Rhythm of War. Sanderson’s world-building has always been perpetually outstanding, that’s to be expected of him, but even with that belief in mind, Sanderson has outdone himself here on the world-building, or to be more precise, universe-building. Almost the entirety of the narrative in Rhythm of War was confined to two settings: Urithiru and Shadesmar. Please do not let this fool you into thinking that there weren’t a lot of revelations and information to learn about. A lot is actually an understatement; there’s SO MUCH content to unpack here, and if you’re caught up with all the Cosmere novels, well, you’re in luck, we’re finally at the crossroads where crossovers aren’t merely Easter Eggs anymore now. A lot of people have asked me whether it’s necessary to read the other Cosmere books before reading The Stormlight Archive. I usually suggest you have to read Warbreaker before reading Words of Radiance and Oathbringer. But now? Read Mistborn trilogy and Mistborn: Wax & Wayne series as well, or even better, just read them all; they’re all superb books anyway. I know that it can be a burden to have to read so many books if you’re in a rush to read this series, but Sanderson’s vision of the Cosmere pretty much will result in these crossovers getting more prominent as each respective series goes by. Sanderson is not just a world-builder; he’s a universe-builder, and Cosmere is his ultimate playground. Seriously, some of the most shocking events in this book were intensely exalting to me only because I’ve read everything in the Cosmere universe so far, and I hope you get to experience that as well. One last thing before I end this review, I want to give my praises to the production value. I’ve mentioned on my YouTube Channel before that I don’t read many more physical books now due to limited spaces and budget. I tend to read more often from my Kindle now, but each physical book in The Stormlight Archive is irresistible to me; they practically have a living soul that demands me to spend my money on a physical copy. I mean, The US edition of Rhythm of War has its cover art illustrated by the legendary Michael Whelan, then there’s also the ultra-beautiful Endpaper arts (only available in the US edition) done by the always terrific Magali Villeneuve and Karla Ortiz. Last but not least, there are TONS of interior artworks illustrated by Ben McSweeney, Dan dos Santos, Isaac Stewart, and Kelley Harris. Here’s four examples of the resplendent artworks in Rhythm of War: Picture: Kalak by Magali Villeneuve Picture: Chanarach by Karla Ortiz Picture: Envoyform by Dan dos Santos Picture: Dagger by Kelley Harris They’re gorgeous, right!? I’ll leave the rest for you to examine yourself. It’s always worth remembering that a lot of people played a role in bringing a book into its final state, especially for a book as massive as Rhythm of War. Kudos to all the people involved! Following the footsteps of its predecessors, I’m willing to give the superlative Rhythm of War a 6/5 stars rating if I could; this is—for me—unquestionably another masterwork by Brandon Sanderson—one of the master storytellers in epic fantasy. The insanely challenging internal battles conflicts that the characters fought—whether in this book or the previous books—extensively reinforced the point that characters and superbly-written characterizations are the most vital element to my reading experience. The world-building of Roshar and Cosmere are both intricate and meticulously built, and Sanderson’s prose continues to be accessible and impeccably vivid to read. The Rhythm of War have been sung and orchestrated, but this doesn’t mean the time to hum the rhythm of peace has arrived. All the groundwork for the grandiose conclusion to the first sequence in The Stormlight Archive has been prepared, and I have faith that the fifth book in the series—slated to be released in 2023—has a great chance of becoming the undisputed best book of the series. Rhythm of War and The Stormlight Archive is a tremendous marvel for epic fantasy, and it is a series of a lifetime I’m grateful to partake in. Until the next book… Life before death. Strength before weakness. Journey before destination. P.S: I had to cut off 1,500 words & all the quotes from this review because the final word count of my review exceeded the characters limit allowed on Goodreads. You can find the UNCUT review on my blog: Novel Notions You can order the book from: Book Depository (Free shipping) | Bookshop (Support Local Bookstores!) Special thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for giving me extra support towards my passion for reading and reviewing! My Patrons: Alfred, Alya, Annabeth, Blaise, Devin, Diana, Edward, Hamad, Helen, Jimmy Nutts, Joie, Lufi, Michelle, Mike, Miracle, Nicholas, Zoe.

One Trillion Stars! “Journey before destination, you bastard.” I honestly have no words for this book (🧍🏻) Tropes; -Found family -Secret locations/orders -The most vile cunning villains -Heartbreaking arcs -Healing Journey -War buildup -Siege/Heist -Intriguing politics -Heart-racing Action sequences “Our weakness doesn’t make us weak. Our weakness makes us strong. For we had to carry it all these years.” I missed the feeling of reading a cosmere book that wasn't a reread and this book fulfilled that enjoyment along with the nervousness, the fear, the enjoyment and the anticipation which is what I expect to come with a Stormlight novel and honestly I know that they all are 1000+ pages but I want them to be even more than that because not once do I feel like they are a slog to go through. Like did this read like a science textbook at times? Yes, but it was a very enjoyable textbook mind you. Like if they serves us with this textbook in school you bet your ass I would get A* on all my subjects. Petition to make Brandon my professor. That way I can study and have fun and urge him to give Kal the peace he needs and write a VinElend a novel which we deserve, The principal would have to call the security guards to get me off of questioning him....Okay I ventured off a bit out of topic (🤡) but can you really blame me? This was the longest Cosmere book besides Wind and truth. The audiobook was 57 hours the Ebook was 2000 pages and my paperback editions combined were 1490 pages and I savored them all, every comma, every full stop, even the ellipsis. The book itself is just so fun to read like it takes off after the events of Oathbringer and it deals with them in such a fun way, It's broke my heart, it had it almost on the verge of a cardiac arrest and it also had me confused at times but I loved every minute of his writing!!! It was so simple and so vivid and it felt so good to read, the way he puts his special twist on characters and they shape up to be the best characters that you read and it's the way the story keeps on moving forward, unraveling things without repetition and the way it has the ability to keep me hooked throughout and the way every single thing is connected is so mindfuckingblowing that I can't stop with his books. I love how he is that one author who has never ever disappointed me at all! I know that I will read his books and they will be five stars and worst case scenario a four star, It's very very very rare for a book of his to be below that, he just knows what to serve and I love that because he does what he intends to do and what initially planned ( keeping in mind everything about this series was planned during the 1990s-2000s) but still deliver on what the fans want and I feel like he in a way manipulates to want the things that he knows is what he's gonna write next (😭) and I just love that so much and honestly the sanderlanche (aka the last three hundred pages) are what I crave, like it's a drug and I am addicted because there is no other explanation for my not so unhealthy obsession with them, like keep me away from that for too long and I might get a seizure (🌚) “It will,” Wit said, “but then it will get better. Then it will get worse again. Then better. This is life, and I will not lie by saying every day will be sunshine. But there will be sunshine again, and that is a very different thing to say. That is truth. I promise you, Kaladin: You will be warm again.” The amazing cast of characters that never fail to capture my heart except for one bitch who will get a hateful essay: Kaladin Stormblessed, the man that you are! I love, love. love, love him like you do not know the love that I hold for him!! he literally blows my mind with the things he does and like even the most subtle things he does has me screaming! yes I am his number one fan and I will fight anyone who takes me up on that (looking at you Hoda stay away) his arc was so well done, like I honestly was a teensy bit reluctant when I saw the direction it was going but it was so needed!! this healing arc HEALED me like I cannot fathom how people read that arc and still thought 'Nah this book is bad' like bffr it was amazing. I also love whoever is even a teensy bit rude to Kaladin, me and Hoda start hating them lol but you cant blame us for that because Live, Laugh, Love Kaladin is a ritual that I live by. Now, coming to his character, I feel like Brandon is such a brilliant author for writing a character this complex that you can write 4 1000+ paged books with things still left for his character to explore and while exploring those things you are constantly putting him on a journey so he can move forward and evolve and develop and that is just so brilliant from his side. I feel like this journey was needed because the strained relationship between him and his father was steaming up since book 3 and the trauma that he went through for like the past 8 years was getting neglected so in this way It felt nice to see him reflect on his trauma and deal with it and oh my god there was this scene near the end with Tien and it had me on the verge of tears which is honestly expected when Tien pops up, but I loved his relationship with Teft and I loved how they believed in each other and have been inseparable like I loved them together and honestly Kaladin's relationship with his mother Hesina is so precious!! Also we got to see Kaladin out of uniform which was (🫦) “Who do you think is stronger?” Adolin asked. “The man who has walked easily his entire life, or the man with no legs? The man who must pull himself by his arms?” Adolin, My second favorite character because he's so precious the enjoyment he brings, the way he makes me laugh the way his scenes are almost the most climatic and powerful scenes at times!! like I am not even joking and it may seem blasphemous lol but his arc was the best in this book even better than Kaladin! like I absolutely loved his trial at shadesmar arc and like that just proves how good of a man he is and how much honor he has because he was willing to stand on trial for people WHO he had no relations with and didn't know or share crimes with just for the sake of saving humanity and like the penance for failing the trial was equivalent to eternal damnation so I think he deserves way more praise that he gets because like I cant imagine this whole series without Adolin like honestly I just cant there would be a massive chunk missing if you remove Adolin from the books, I loved him and I loved how patient he was with Shallan!! there romance was very cute. “Heroism is a myth you tell idealistic young people—specifically when you want them to go bleed for you.” Shallan, All that work revolving around Shallan in the previous books are really shaping up in this one!! I just loved her arc on this book, it was so well done like with all the personalities and like as much as it was tedious to read at times in Oathbringer I loved it that much because they were developing so much and the steam was following them and it finally snapped and oh my god the whole formless scene gave me so much anxiety like you guys have no idea I was biting on my nails ( AND I NEVER DO THAT) it was so stressful! the things that she did were so amazing like Brandon sanderson is absolutely killing it with her arc!! I can't wait to see more of what she does and how she progresses the story forward!! Also thanks to her we got a major Kelseir mention which could probably and most definitely lead to a cameo in the next book. “You don't have to smile. You don't have to talk. But if you're going to be miserable, you might as well do it with friends.” Navani, Ladies and gentleman the star of this book. The one and only Navani Kholin. Me throughout the book; "Who is this diva? (purple heart)" Her storyline ate and I honestly was not expecting it to be a Navani focused book because I have been following sanderson's blogs and he usually refers to a book with a character who have their past perspectives written in them, so main signs were of Eshonai and while she had them, it focused on Navani and honestly I loved. She's a lioness for keeping up with that rat that Gavilar is and omg she is so smart, I can see that Jasnah takes after her and not that rat and the way she handled the whole tower situation was so well done. She avoided so many casualties, discovered so many things, got successful with a special gift lmaoo. Also I am a strict Navani X Dalinar ship but did anyone else feel something between her and Raboniel lol. “I know what you are,” Shallan whispered. “You’re the blankness upon my memories. The part of me that looks away. The part of my mind that protects me from my past.” “Of course I am,” Veil said. “I’m your veil, Shallan.” Dalinar, He surprisingly wasn't the main focus of the book?? which is shocking since we got an overwhelming amount of chapters in the previous books and it kind 0f felt refreshing to read the other povs in abundance rather his but his journey was interesting to read, I wanted to see what would happen with his journey and honestly for a bondsmith he can be pretty dumb or travangian is pretty smart (the latter) I liked the way Dalinar's story was headed and the ending??? NEXT BOOK PLS. Jasnah I love her so much and her with wit is everything also I wanted more of her scenes! The battle scene that she had absolutely ate like she is such a bad, she was literally clawing her way forward and uff my heart was in my throat the whole way during that scene where she stopped thinking and raged. I love her arc as queen.Szeth “If we can choose, we can change. If we can't change, then choice means nothing. I'm glad I feel this way, to remind me that I haven't always felt the same. Been the same.” Bridge four, They are everything!! Leyten had my heart, I missed Rock and Lopen a lot and I already had this connection with sig because of the sunlit man but Teft, his arc broke me, the words he spoke and AHHHHHHH BRANDON I HATE YOUUUU for writing him heal and ending it with that it honestly broke me like how dare you. The audacity??? Why did you do that!!! I loved him soooooo much. Wit, I love him so much the way he was tempering with the contract and the way he had the main goal of keeping Odium here and tricking him was awesome but the ending?? absolutely mind fucking honestly I was tripping! I also loved how he tipped Kaladin back and kept him away from Odium and I also loved the stories that he told!! + his spren design is so funny I love their bickering. ALSO Wit is 𝓯𝓻𝓮𝓪𝓴𝔂 that whole safehand makeout was 🫦 Lift, I just included her because like first of all that Moash scene she dealt it with it in a very smart manner but her running after a chicken while her being besieged had me creasing. “I accept that there will be those I cannot protect.” Travangian, Guys he's so creepy and scary, he freaks me out but you guys won't believe me!! I predicted the BIGGEST plot twist like oh my god I cant believe me and hoda figured it out! it was amazing. Also Trav is gonna fuck so many things up I hate him. Moash, You know who I hate more than |Trav this motherfucking bitch right here, he deserves eternal damnation! like this bitch, I would personally shove my thumb in his eye sockets and slice him a hundred times while having an edgedancer beside me so I could heal him and make him go through that again and again and honestly I will never ever take his redemption arc I just know it will be an immediate one star!!! Also, he fumbled really hard with what he did here, there is no going back from here. He needs to die. “I know how you feel. Dark, like there's never been light in the world. Like everything in you is a void, and you wish you could just feel something. Anything. Pain would at least tell you you're alive. Instead you feel nothing. And you wonder, how can a man breathe, but already be dead?” The plot, the action and the worldbuilding/magic systems, the plot of this book was divided into three sections. One was following Dalinar, the other Navani and the last one Adolin and they all were heading towards wind and truth so I loved seeing them collide and be set into motion, the politics that were brought within it was so fun to read, the different cultural aspects and the deeper lore behind Urithiru and the Pareshendi that we got to read was soo fun!! the action sequences were breathtaking, the whole armor scene of Kal was also another of my favorites but the action scenes were so well done, they feel like a time bomb and it's been too long I think, he's definitely killing someone in the next book!! A main character is gonna die and I AM NOT READY. Please help! but yeah the worldbuilding just evolves and it grows and expands and takes its form to be the best out there and the magic system gets more complex and fun to decode so honestly, I love these aspects also the political intrigue was really fun to read! Overall, this book was everything I hoped for a stormlight book to be! Some quotes I loved: “Our weakness doesn’t make us weak. Our weakness makes us strong. For we had to carry it all these years.” . “Why do we fight, Kal? Why do we keep going?” “I don’t know,” Kaladin whispered. “I’ve forgotten.” “It’s so we can be with each other.” “They all die, Tien. Everyone dies.” “So they do, don’t they?” “That means it doesn’t matter,” Kaladin said. “None of it matters.” “See, that’s the wrong way of looking at it.” Tien held him tighter. “Since we all go to the same place in the end, the moments we spent with each other are the only things that do matter. The times we helped each other.” . “I’m not strong enough,” Kaladin whispered. “You’re strong enough for me.” “I’m not good enough.” “You’re good enough for me.” “I wasn’t there.” Tien smiled. “You are here for me, Kal. You’re here for all of us.” . “Some people charged toward the goal, running for all they had. Others stumbled. But it wasn't the speed that mattered. It was the direction they were going.” . “Kaladin’s anxiety began to subside, and he pushed through the worst of the darkness. He always emerged on the other side. Why was that so difficult to remember while in the middle of it?” . “You just want to stop existing,” Kaladin said. “You don’t want to actually kill yourself, not on most days. But you figure it sure would be convenient if you weren’t around anymore.” . “No one ever accomplished anything by being content with who they were, Shallan,” Adolin said. “We accomplish great things by reaching toward who we could become.” “As long as it’s what you want to become. Not what someone else thinks you should become.” . “That’s because Wit is an asshole,” . “I am an artist,” Wit said. “I should thank you not to demean me by insisting my art must be trying to accomplish something. In fact, you shouldn’t enjoy art. You should simply admit that it exists, then move on. Anything else is patronizing.” . “We need both heart and mind," Lirin said. "The heart might provide the purpose, but the head provides the method, the path. Passion is nothing without a plan. Wanting something doesn't make it happen.” . “You're always willing to give others more charity than you extend yourself.” . “Fine,” Navani said. “I hope when you die—knowing your homeland is doomed, your families enslaved, your queen executed—you feel satisfied knowing that at least you maintained a slight market advantage.” . “History is like that, always gobbling up the present.” . “WATCH, the Rider said. YOU WANTED TO KNOW WHAT WAS BEYOND THE NEXT HILL. SEE THEM ALL.” . “That night, it rained on the other dogs, who slept outside in the cold barn, which leaked. But the little dog snuggled into a warm bed beside the fire, hugged by the farmer’s children, his belly full. And as he did, the dog sadly thought to himself, ‘I could not become a dragon. I am an utter and complete failure.’ The end.” . “No army, no matter how clean its reputation, walked away from war untainted. And no leader, no matter how noble, could help but sink into the crem when he stepped into the game of conquest.” . “Radiant,” he said. “How? How do you still fight?” “The same way you do,” Kaladin said. “One day at a time, always taking the next step.” . “Honor is not dead so long as he lives in the hearts of men!” . “Strength before weakness. He was coming to understand that part of his first oath. He had discovered weakness in himself, but that wasn't something to be ashamed of. Because of that weakness, he could help in ways nobody could.” . “Who is a better swimmer?” Veil whispered. “It’s the sailor who has swum his entire life, even if he encounters rough seas that challenge him. Who is the stronger man? It is the man who must pull himself by his arms.” . “Yet the misery did lessen around others, and it required Kaladin to keep up a semblance. To pretend. It might be a front, but he'd found that sometimes the front worked even on himself.” . “It was a nice dream, wasn't it, Syl?" he asked. "That we could escape? Find peace at long last?" "Such a wonderful dream," she whispered.” . “You should have been the surgeon Adolin," Kaladin said. "Not me. You care about people." "Don't be silly," Adolin said, pulling open the door as he gestured at Kaladin's work clothing. "I could never dress like that." He left Kaladin with a wink.” . “Deal with your own stupid planet, you idiot. Don’t make me come over there and slap you around again.” ___ I don't know how people waited four years for this I had the opportunity to do that but I was wise and read one book a year because the ending 😭✋🏻 I'm so glad wind and truth is so out!! ___ This is the only book in this series that I haven't read so going into this blind 😭 scared asf but also super excited 🤭 gotta finish this before December 6th when the last one comes out. Buddy reading with Hoda.

Check out my new youtube channel where I show my instant reactions to reading fantasy books seconds after I finish the book. A mind-blowingly amazing book that dishes out a constant stream of intense action, heartfelt interactions, and crazy plot development While Stormlight Archive is one of my favorite all-time fantasy series, I thought the previous book Oathbringer was a small step down in quality from the first two books. Thankfully, Rhythm of War brings this series back to perfection that somehow turned 1,200 pages into a breeze. This series is one of the only that I have ever read that legitimately makes me shiver from excitement, and gives me tears in my eyes from happiness. This book had several of those moments, and I will forever cherish them as some of the peak moments in fantasy history. The worldbuilding in this book continues to dazzle me. I am simply in love with the different locations that we get to visit in this book, and the deep lore that is being developed here. Sanderson does such an amazing job at really transporting the reader into his world and leaving you with a sense of awe and wonder and giving a rich understanding of what is happening, and what everything looks and feels like. Without spoiling anything, while I understand some readers had some negative thoughts about one of the central storylines here involving Urithiru, I thought it was a highlight of the book and I loved the intrigue that went into understanding the mystery of the tower. I also thoroughly loved the Kaladin family dynamic and the character development that went into the relationship between the family members here. I simply cannot wait for the next book in this series, and my faith in Sanderson and this series in particular is at an all-time high.

Rereading in preparation for Wind and Truth. Surrounded by thousands of anticipationspren now.... __________________________ Rhythm of War had me humming to the Rhythm of Awe. Even with my sky-high expectations for this book, Sanderson has surpassed them yet again. This book is STORMING INCREDIBLE! For seven years since I've started reading The Stormlight Archive, I couldn't decide which title was my favourite, as they were all equally amazing in their own right. That indecision has now ended as Rhythm of War has managed to edge out the rest. Bear in mind, I'm talking about a favourite amongst favourites, as I considered all of them masterpieces and the best fantasy books I've ever read. That was how utterly, totally, undisputedly incredible Rhythm of War was for me. "Honor is not dead so long as he lives in the heart of men." In my review of Oathbringer, I said that it gave me the most emotional charged experience I've ever had. Three years later, now, I was presented with an even more powerful and exhausting emotional roller-coaster. I read this massive book over the course of about four days, rendered almost non-functional in real life as I lost myself in Roshar and the lives of the some of the most compelling characters to ever grace the pages of an epic fantasy book. This book was absolutely relentless in its grip on me. And judging from all the reaction on social media, the release of Rhythm of War is a blessing amidst the bleak landscape of 2020. Sanderson and his team also went the extra mile in engaging readers virtually to make up for the lack of physical tours - the sheer amount of content available from them has been staggering this year, and very much appreciated. "For the men chatting together softly, the change was in being shown sunlight again. In being reminded that the darkness did pass. But perhaps most important, the change was in not merely knowing that you weren't alone - but in feeling it." What Sanderson managed to achieve in this penultimate entry to the first 5-book arc of this series was built upon the strong foundation of the characterisation and worldbuilding in the past three books. The character work in The Stormlight Archive has so far been his best yet, but it seemed that Sanderson was far from being done. I couldn't believe that he could pull out even more development to the characters that we've already grown to care so much for. His representation of these characters, especially those with mental ailments, feels so authentic because he relies on a diverse range of beta readers who could better relate to or identify with the experiences of these characters. The character moments in Rhythm of War were some of the most emotionally powerful ones in the series, and there's so, so much of it. In fact, I'd say that this is the most character-focussed book so far. Regardless, I didn't feel that plot, pacing and worldbuilding were sacrificed in order to achieve that. Sanderson managed to incorporate all those while still pushing and developing his characters. "Is he trustworthy?" "Absolutely, he's Bridge Four." My emotional attachment that I have for most of the cast in this series was so strong that anything that happens to them matter deeply. Almost too deeply as Sanderson was so brutal towards his main characters that there were times where my heart actually felt pained. GRRM might be brutal in killing them off, but death is easy. The way these already broken characters were dragged through literal hell as they struggled to embody the Radiant Ideals made for a lot of hurt, but it was also very inspirational with great emotional payoff. It's also one thing to be invested in characters that you've known and read about in three massive books, and quite another to be introduced to a new one that was one of the best antagonists that I've ever read about. This is something I've always appreciated about Sanderson's writing as the antagonists in his books are never just villainous caricatures. I couldn't say much at all without spoilers, save that this character was one of the most compelling and intriguing that I've come across; one that I couldn't dislike at all, and one that I could easily have rooted for if Sanderson has flipped the story around. "No man can judge another man's heart or trials, for no man can truly know them." While Sanderson has been occasionally criticised for his characterisation (I for one could never understand that, especially for this series), no one could ever dispute his mastery over worldbuilding. And Rhythm of War proved that he remains unassailable at the top of his game. He managed to so seamlessly marry technological advances with the magic system that the concepts actually do make sense from real world science point of view. In his interview with Michael Whelan, the artist for the US covers, Sanderson said he approached the worldbuilding in The Stormlight Archive like science fiction instead of traditional fantasy. Even more fascinating is his concept of fractal worldbuilding, where one can opt to only appreciate the overall worldbuilding from a larger scale, or go deeper and discover more complexity and details that bring everything together. To further encapsulate this concept, even the continent of Roshar is shaped like a fractal Julia set. Sorry, I'm digressing as I fangirl over what a totally awesome nerd he is. "He hated that to every one of them, he was some kind of representation of an entire people. He wanted to be seen as a person, not a symbol." Armed with some comprehension about rhythms from the perspective of the Parshendi, I thought that I had some understanding about the significance of this book's title. I was resoundingly disabused of that notion, and the revelation behind the true importance of tones and rhythms in this world was stunning. Anyone who is partial to the concept of music being foundational to worldbuilding will absolutely love this aspect. I certainly did, and frequently found myself unable to fathom the depth of this author's mind and imagination. On top of all that, fans of the Cosmere would be treated to loads of cosmere-spanning connections and cross-overs. It's so expertly done that I don't think that readers who are not caught up with the Cosmere would miss anything and could take it as just another mystery. I can certainly vouch for this because one of my co-bloggers has only read Stormlight and even without knowing what she was missing from a larger Cosmere perspective, she still loved this book. As I'm thoroughly a Cosmere fan (and Sanderson-obsessed), it made for much squealing and excitement when I spotted references or actual things related to another world/series within this fictional universe. "Time. It is a sadistic master. It made adults of children - and then gleefully, relentlessly, stole away everything it had given." Rhythm of War also reads differently from the rest of the Stormlight books, save for the Prologue which is another POV of the same night which started it all in The Way of Kings. There was a time jump of about one year after the last book, Oathbringer, and this book opened with lots of action. It was written to be a climax of the 'missed book' in that time jump. As such, Part One started with a bang and settled to a more contemplative tone as the main plot developed. The flashback chapters also did not appear until Part Three, to better fit into the current timeline's story. "I've listened to ardents talk. I've been poked and prodded. I've been stuck in the dark. None of that worked as well as knowing this one thing, sir. He still gets up. He still fights. So I figure... I figure I can, too." There had also been criticisms about how the Knights Radiant are too overpowered with their ability to heal with Stormlight. This is a fair point because when your heroes and favourite characters can't get seriously injured or die, the stakes just don't feel high enough to create tension. Rest assured that this was not the case in Rhythm of War as the knowledge, skills and/or weaponry of the enemies spelled some pretty bad news for our fellow Radiants. Without giving away too much again, I can say that for the most part of this book, the action scenes made for some really heart-pounding, panic-filled moments. "You can bear it. You can remember it. Our weakness doesn't make us weak. Our weakness makes us strong. For we had to carry it all these years." The Sanderlanche that everyone comes to expect at the end of his books was also different this time. Sanderson said that there's a sequence at the end of this book which was "one of the foundational scenes I conceived from the beginning. In fact, it might be the very first big scene I imagined, and my favorite in the entire series." All I can say is that it was utterly incredible, and even epic but not in the way that one might presume, especially after Oathbringer's climax. It's also my favourite of the series to date. Far from being done, after this perfectly rendered and powerful sequence, I was then subjected to the most jaw-dropping turn of events that is going to have implications that I couldn't even begin to process, except to say "What the actual f***!" "Since we all go to the same place in the end, the moments we spent with each other are the only things that do matter. The times we helped each other." I've realised that I've used the word 'incredible' many times in the course of this review, but that's the one word that kept popping up in my mind when I read this book. Hence, I thought it's only appropriate that follow suit in describing my thoughts and feelings here. With four really big books into The Stormlight Archive, Sanderson doesn't appear to be slowing down in the least, but in fact, is getting better. To me, this is epic fantasy unparalleled in its quality, consistency and scope, particularly because it is so accessible given the ease in its writing style; a conscious decision made by the author so that readers can immerse themselves completely into the story as the prose disappears, leaving only images and feelings. The writing while simple is by no means simplistic, and it is always cinematic without being bloated. "Storytelling is essentially about cheating. The challenge is to make everyone believe you've lived a thousand lives. Make them feel the pain you have not felt, make them see the sights you have not seen, and make them know the truths you have made up" As far as I can see, this series remains and will uncontestably be my all-time favourite fantasy series. I echo my own words in saying that The Stormlight Archive has raised the bar of what epic fantasy could be to stratospheric levels and I feel extremely privileged to be part of this journey. Journey before destination, my friends. You can purchase a copy from: Book Depository (Free shipping) | Bookshop.org (Support Independent Bookstores) | Amazon UK | Amazon US You can find this and my other reviews at Novel Notions.

This review is spoiler-free. Dealing out as many exhilarating moments and heartfelt ones as questions to think upon, Rhythm of War is a simply stunning composition from a masterful storyteller! Heart on my sleeve here; the Stormlight Archives is my favourite series by far. I doubt anyone will be surprised that my most anticipated book of this year was Rhythm of War. While I had the best intentions of savouring this story, I devoured it in a couple of days, but I have zero regrets! Art by Magali Villenueve The third book of the Stormlight Archives, Oathbringer, was a fantastic follow up to my favourite book of all time, Words of Radiance. What had me worried though was the high bar it set in terms of expectations for the rest of the series. The book was incredible in every way, and the Sanderlanch was so mind-blowingly epic, that surely, SURELY, Rhythm of War had no chance of competing with that. That right there, it makes me feel like I have not read pretty much every damn thing this guy has written, because how do I still doubt? This book is everything I wanted, hoped for, needed and MORE. “No man can judge another man’s heart or trials, for no man can truly know them.” Rhythm of War picks up one year after the events of Oathbringer, and while the plot is too spoilery to talk about, the reasoning behind the choice this for this time-skip seems to be revealed in the different plot structure this time around and is one of two things that stood out for me about the way the story is told. Brandon has followed a clearly defined blueprint for the first three books, with one viewpoint per chapter and pacing that sticks to a methodical gradual buildup towards that frenetic crescendo we know as the Sanderlanche. Rhythm of War, however, does not entirely follow suit, in that the one-year time-skip has catapulted the story straight into events that are immediately gripping and told at a commensurate faster pace than we are used to seeing so early, with viewpoints bleeding across one another similar to what we are used to at the end of the book, enhancing the frenetic feel of it all, sort of like a mini Sanderlanche, and lifting the tempo and excitement levels right at the start of the book. While I enjoy every second of these books and can’t count myself among any of those who have found large parts of the books boring, this difference in pacing is an unexpected yet delightful deviation from the beaten path but makes perfect sense with this being the penultimate book of the first five book arc of this 10 book series. Sanderson has always said that book five will be sort of an ending to this first part of the story, and so this pacing change makes sense with the added tension of things drawing to a midway close. The second thing is that while the story starts with all the characters together, it soon splits into three groups of viewpoints with three different arcs that form the weave of the larger arc of this book. I think this was a brilliant narrative decision by Brandon, creating some interesting character dynamics and interactions and also letting some of the characters really come into their own. More on that soon. Furthermore, every interlude was fantastic too, although that can probably be chalked up to us being almost halfway through the series and deeply invested in it. One of the main complaints I always see with the first few books is that the interludes feel like you are stepping away from everything and following some random side story, and while I still enjoyed them, I cannot argue with that and back in Way of Kings I was definitely eager to get back to the main story. This far into the series though it feels as if any hint of such issues has faded away, the interludes feeling like pieces of the puzzle that are now making sense, giving you a clearer picture overall and becoming valuable additions to the main body, fascinating in their own right. “Wit never gives me answers. At least not straight ones.” “That’s because Wit is an asshole.” As I mentioned above, the author made some interesting character choices and really blew my mind with the viewpoints of several of these. Sanderson initially said this book would be Eshonai’s book, and while we do have quite a few viewpoints of hers, this book felt very much like another character’s, who in my opinion, just about stole the show. I may have thought that I had already found all my favourites for this series, but Sanderson showed me that a LOT can still happen and there is always room for one more. And while characterisation up to this point of the series may have been outstanding, here we are shown that this genius of the genre always has more arrows up his sleeve and he knows how to step his game up. Our boy likes to grandstand, and he has outdone himself once again, giving us so much development in this regard that I have to take my figurative hat off and bow. Before I praise him too much, let me just take a moment to glare at him, nay, to GLARE at him, for the amount of pain, torture and suffering he inflicts upon some of his characters. My poor, anguished heart. These characters are FAMILY Sanderson! Deeply flawed, broken people, and FAMILY! I feel like I suffered every harsh and unforgiving second with them and it was BRUTAL. Rhythm of War played havoc with my emotions, making some roller coasters I have experienced seem tame by comparison. Through sheer writing skill, this emotional tennis was not confined only to existing characters, but new ones too! In Rhythm of War, I have found one of the best antagonists I have ever had the pleasure of encountering upon a page. This character was so difficult to emphatically label as good or bad and it was easy to forget the side they were on, inspiring so many different emotions in me. As a co-blogger of mine pointed out though, (waves at TS) this is one of Sanderson’s strengths. It reminds me that Sanderson once said (don’t hold me to this please) that Kelsier, a hero of one of his other series, could easily be the villain of someone else’s tale. So, what is true for a protagonist can also be true for an antagonist, and it is never more evident than here. One of my favourite aspects of Rhythm of War is that this book is more deeply personal and character-focused than any of the previous entries, with some of the most beautiful moments in the series so far and also some of the most emotionally devastating ones. Not that this is any less plot-driven or less exhilarating than its predecessors. It just feels like a deeper dive into the characters and their thoughts and emotions. In particular, Sanderson’s exploration of mental health and all its various aspects made everything so much more affecting, and the amount of research he put into this by getting feedback from readers who identify with what these characters are going through clearly shows through the experiences on-page. Something else that stood out for me is how the author is never afraid to highlight or cast a spotlight on race, gender or sexual preference. It’s a joy seeing how these are discussed or explored along with all the different cultures that are represented in this world and the diversity of the cast never ceases to amaze. Art by Karla Ortiz The world that Brandon has built here is ab. so. lute. ly. INCREDIBLE. When I pick up one of these books I am transported to that world instantaneously and so deeply, that it takes me at least a week to feel like I could pick up another story after one of these. It’s not that I don’t want to, but rather that I still have one foot on Roshar and just can't escape thoughts of it. It’s such a testament to writing prowess. While the world-building could easily have taken a back seat having already been so thoroughly well established and detailed to start with, Sanderson is not content with just leaving it as is here and I LOVE him for it. You thought you knew it all? YOU DON’T. I really, REALLY want to talk about a thing that has become majorly important to the story here as it is one my absolute favourite things when incorporated into fantasy, but I can’t really, other than to say that the title of the book hints at it. (EXCITEMENT!!!) Speaking of important things, as the in-world science has steadily evolved, so has the technology, and while it has grown in leaps in bounds since Oathbringer, here the author proves his adeptness once again by seamlessly integrating science and engineering with the magical systems of this world, pushing these fields beyond their known boundaries and putting Roshar on the cusp of a veritable explosion of technological development. There is just so much lore that has been revealed, and after layer upon layer upon layer, this world is the most fascinating place we have in the fantasy genre right now in my opinion. I honestly think four books into this ten book series, there is nothing else I have read that is as developed and fleshed out as The Stormlight Archives. Ok, there’s one or two pretty famous series that I have yet to read, and many smaller ones as well, but stormfather, this is phenomenal. And the real kicker is, I still feel like Brandon is holding back and showing us only a glimpse of his cards. “Honor is not dead so long as he lives in the hearts of men!” As for the action, If you read this expecting the Sanderlanche to be a bigger and better version of the one in Oathbringer, you are going to be slightly disappointed. While this is every bit as good, or maybe even better if you ask me (it’s DEFINITELY better imo) this one is different from what we have had so far. It is more personally focused, featuring one of the most important sequences in the entire series and is absolutely PHENOMENAL. I freaking LOVED IT. In fact, I just reread it again. I don’t think I can say much more on it, apart from that it left me wrung out, utterly exhausted and yet blissfully happy. And then Sanderson upended EVERY. DAMN. THING. WHAT?!?! HOLY SHARDCHICKENS!! I can’t even BEGIN to imagine what’s in store for us next, but I have never been more worried for the future of the Cosmere, and I have never been more ready for the next book. Just to quickly touch on this: the Cosmere connections and implications revealed in Rhythm of War are many and staggering. To discuss them here will turn what was supposed to be a short review (and yes, I’m well aware that plan died about 500 words ago) into a novella of sorts, so I will refrain from saying more. I do however want to suggest again, that if any readers of this series at this point have not yet read both Warbreaker and Dawnshard to please do so. Those who do not are missing out on some vital knowledge that not only helps in making certain Cosmere connections, but also helps with a deeper understanding of certain characters, scenes, and the Cosmere in general. It just elevates everything to a whole new level. And also, you can flail and scream and run around shouting things at cats that make no sense to them! I, er, definitely did not do that. Time to wrap this up, with a thought on the prose. Sanderson’s writing is as wonderful as ever, just dropping you into the story and making the mechanics of the story fade away, drawing you deeply into the tale and delivering pure, unadulterated escapism. People often rave about many other aspects of writing, but there is no substitute for pure storytelling and that is what Brandon is at heart, a pure storyteller, and he shows it on-page. I was convinced I was going to love this book, and I was not disappointed, but what I did not expect, was how much I would love it. And while I can see how some others may not like it as much, I personally adore it. Brandon Sanderson has once again obliterated my expectations and written another wonderful story that I will love forever. And while the Stormlight Archives is not yet halfway written, I am in no doubt as to its future status as a Fantasy Hall of Fame member. As to my new favourite book? That title now belongs to Rhythm of War. Life before Death. Strength before Weakness. Journey before Destination. You can find this review and more at Novel Notions.

Amazing as expected. Mind blowing finale.

4.5 stars! Here it is: the review I've been spending the last two months of solid reading (neglecting other books, not writing other reviews, ignoring my chores ...) working up to. Hope you all agree it was worthwhile. :) Review first posted on FantasyLiterature.com: I feel a bit dazed as I finally emerge from a truly epic STORMLIGHT ARCHIVE marathon that lasted almost exactly two months, since that fateful September day when I decided I couldn’t turn down the offer of an advance copy of Rhythm of War, despite not having yet read any of the prior three books in this series (good intentions and all, but yes, the sheer page count was truly daunting). I’ve generally been of the opinion that epic fantasy is really not quite my thing, but Brandon Sanderson has been gradually bringing me around. If you are already a fan of epic fantasy, this series gets an extremely high recommendation from me … which you probably don’t need if you’re an epic fantasy reader, since you’re likely way ahead of me in getting into this series. Rhythm of War is a giant of a book and, like the previous installments in the series, juggles a large cast of characters, most of whom are familiar from prior books in the series, and multiple plotlines — again, most of which were introduced earlier in the series, but take some large leaps forward in this volume, with a few twists and backflips along the way. Kaladin, Shallan, and Dalinar are still the most prominent main characters, but they’re joined by Adolin and Navani, who are both given some much-needed character development and more substantial roles in the overall plot. Kaladin has been a favorite character since The Way of Kings, when I found myself skipping ahead just so I could read his chapters. Early on here, it becomes painfully clear just how much he’s struggling with the aftereffects of his many battles and his failures to protect those around him. Those scenes dragged on somewhat too long for my taste, but Rhythm of War has some powerful and even profound moments describing depression and PTSD. Navani’s chapters were more uplifting and refreshing, despite the dangers of her situation. She finds herself a unique position where she can begin to exercise and develop her scientific talents more than ever before, but there’s a fascinating conundrum: will her scholarly efforts help her people or lead to their downfall? Navani’s perspective is distinct from others in this novel, exploring the advancing science of Roshar’s magical system. Her battles with the opposing forces are more intellectual and mental than physical. Venli, a “listener” and one of the alien race of singers that’s native to the planet Roshar (and which has a fraught history with the human settlers who arrived several thousand years ago), also becomes a main viewpoint character. Through Venli’s and her sister’s eyes, and in a series of flashbacks, Sanderson explores more of the culture and society of singers and the effect of Odium’s power and schemes on them. And, of course, King Taravangian is still scheming as well, at least on his more intelligent days. Taravangian is an entirely unique character, one of my favorites, with an unusual blessing/curse and an unexpected set of skills and methods for dealing with it. As the plot advances, Sanderson puts the reader through a roller coaster of emotions, including some exhilarating highs and terrifying drops. Sanderson is able to craft a war that feels real, showing the motivations of people (human or other) on both sides of the conflict. When the characters we’re rooting for win or lose a battle, we can see its effects clearly. It’s a staple of epic fantasy to have a large (even immense) scale of events that shorter series can’t attain, and Sanderson fully embraces this and uses the greater scale to its fullest effect. It wouldn’t be a Sanderson book without at least a few major plot twists. When they came, they felt like events that you could’ve (perhaps should have) seen coming, though personally I didn’t manage to predict any of the major ones. Sanderson does a great job of answering questions while also raising new ones, and in Rhythm of War, Sanderson answers (at least in part) several longstanding questions, which naturally give rise to an equal number of new and equally compelling questions. Those, along with a few (okay, more than a few) unresolved plot threads, serve to keep expectations high for future books in this series. Sanderson is justly lauded for his intricate and imaginative magical systems, but I need to give a shout out to the literary structure of these books as well. The five-part organization of each of the books in this series, interspersed with brief “interludes” from other, often unfamiliar characters; the frequently obscure (at least initially) quotes and epigraphs at the beginning of each chapter; the way the prologue and epilogue of each book echo the others but shed new light; and more. The amount of thought and work that has gone into this series, on multiple levels, is truly impressive. They're just so intelligently written. Overall, Rhythm of War is a strong addition to the STORMLIGHT ARCHIVE and, for the first time, it feels like there’s an end in sight to the series, however distant it may be. If I have any real complaints, it’s that the immense length of these books doesn’t feel entirely justified to me; I tend to think that Sanderson could have edited them down by, say, three or four hundred pages without really taking anything material away from the experience. Still, the STORMLIGHT ARCHIVE is easily my favorite series of epic fantasy to date (yes, I have in fact read a few others). Being introduced to these characters and this world has been an illuminating and enjoyable experience, and I look forward to the STORMLIGHT books still to come. Initial post: ARC received from the publisher! Also I have had to sign my life away if I violate the NDA, so my lips are sealed until November. ;)

2024 reread: After having reread all 4 of the currently published Stormlight Archive novels back to back, this is no longer my favorite book in the series. Oathbringer once again holds that title. And that makes this no longer my favorite book of all time, either. I'm not even sure I have one. But this series as a whole remains my favorite ongoing series, and the story that has most captivated my imagination and captured my heart. And this book is just as strong and vital and moving as the three that came before it. This is a series that will never stop speaking. And I think my favorite installment will continue to shift each time I embark on my journey through it once again. The inclusion of music as so core to this particular installment still makes me all kinds of happy. And there's a particular courtroom scene that gives me physical chills from head to toe, even though I've read it before. I'm so in awe of what Sanderson has crafted in the Stormlight Archive. I can't wait to see what comes next! Original 2020 review: Rhythm of War is hands down my favorite book of the year, and I’ve read some truly incredible books over the course of 2020. At the moment, it’s also my favorite fantasy book I’ve ever read. That title has been held by The Name of the Wind for over a decade, but in Rhythm of War Sanderson has usurped it. Humans are a poem. A song. For ones so soft, they are somehow strong. For ones so varied, they are somehow intense. For ones so lost, they are somehow determined. For ones so confused, they are somehow brilliant. For ones so tarnished, they are somehow bright. Radiant. The thing that sets Sanderson apart from other fantasy authors in my mind is his phenomenal world building. There is no other author who can evoke such vibrant and absorbing images in my mind as I read. When I pick up a Sanderson book, I feel like it completely transports me, and like the real world doesn’t exist while I’m nestled between the pages. His worlds are so tangible and easy to visualize, and no world exemplifies this better than Roshar. Sanderson is also exceptional at crafting magic systems. Every single magic system in his Cosmere is captivating and cinematic, which is doubly true for the Stormlight Archive seeing as the magic system varies so vastly from person to person. There’s a science and a method to each system that makes them believable. Even with the magic system of Roshar, which seems almost religious in nature, there are rules that make sense. “We need to remember the past.. We need to remember what we passed through to get here.” Character development is yet another area in which Sanderson truly excels. So much of the plot in this installment revolved around divided minds. Whether that divide is between light and dark, or intellect and emotion, or the division involves hiding from the truth or the past behind a self-created fiction, almost every perspective character is dealing with an internal division of some sort. Some of these struggles are more evident and dramatic than others, for sure, but a giant part of the development for any of these characters is learning to forgive themselves and accept themselves. “Some people charged toward the goal, running for all they had. Others stumbled. But it wasn’t the speed that mattered. It was the direction they were going.” I love what Sanderson conveys through his characters about the differences between empathy and sympathy. Even when we can’t understand what someone we love is going through, such as clinical depression or another mental struggle, we can still have empathy. We can still care deeply and be there for them without being able to grasp what they’re feeling. He also reminds us of the importance of having that kind of empathy for ourselves. We’re always our own worst critics, and the characters in this series exemplify that. “Had she done harm without realizing it? Possibly. Had she made mistakes? Certainly. But she’d been trying to help. That was her journey.” Rhythm of War also deftly addresses inclusion and prejudice. Whatever our differences physiologically, ideologically, or psychologically, we should still be able to respect one another and treat one another with dignity. Common ground is great when it can be found, and I think it should carry far more weight than our divisions. But common ground shouldn’t be necessary for us to treat other people like, well, people. That comes into play a good deal in this story. “No one ever accomplished anything by being content with who they were… We accomplish greta things by reaching toward who we could become.” Honestly, there is an astonishing amount of philosophy woven into this entire series, and that makes the entirety of it more meaningful to me. The blending of philosophy, religion, and science in this particular installment is absolutely fascinating. The character development is second to none, the world building is insane, the pacing is solid and the action sequences are captivating. These are all building blocks of a great fantasy series. But that extra deep dive into the crossroads of science and religion? The graceful handling of mental illness and societal failings in a way that never weighs down the story itself? Those elements are what lift Stormlight Archive from great into the realm of near perfection, in my eyes. “Never underestimate the strength of a soldier trained to stand fast.” “Never underestimate the simple intimidating force of a man who won’t back down.” “Never underestimate the worth of being willing to hold. Your. GROUND.” Music is and has always been my thing. I’m insanely bookwormy, but if I had to define myself to quickly to others, I would call myself a musician first and a reader second. Melody and lyrics are the ways in which I most capably express myself. Because of this, I should have been more excited than I was about Rhythm of War based on the title alone. But I thought I knew what that title referenced and, while ecstatic to revisit the world and characters I have come to love with my entire heart, there was something about that title that dampened my enthusiasm just the tiniest bit. I should have known better. Sanderson completely surprised me in the best way when it became time to reveal the source of the title. That particular element of the plot is in large part why this is now my favorite Stormlight novel. I can’t say anything more about it without spoiling what I view as an incredibly important plot point. What I will say is, if you’re someone whose life has been defined by music, there’s going to be some special resonance here for you. “What is a secret but a surprise to be discovered?” Sanderson fans have coined the term “Sanderlanche” to describe the insane epicness of how he brings all of his plot points together. There were multiple little Sanderlanches mixed into this book, and each and every one of them was incredible. Every single one packed a huge emotional punch that I found very, very satisfying. Then there was the giant Sanderlanche. I lost so much sleep, y’all. I read the last 300 or so pages in one sitting because I was physically incapable of putting it down. It was almost infuriatingly good. I’m constantly blown away by Sanderson’s imagination, work ethic, and craftsmanship. “Our weakness doesn’t make us weak. Our weakness makes us strong. For we had to carry it all these years.” If you’re invested (ha) in the Cosmere, this book is going to bring you a little something extra. In the pages of Rhythm of War, various stands of the Cosmere start tying together. I found this almost as exciting as the plot and character development. However, if you’re not caught up on the Cosmere and have only read the Stormlight Archive, you’re still going to be able to enjoy this without feeling lost. But if you’re a lover of Easter egg hunting in your media consumption, you’re in for some serious fun. “Honor is not dead so long as he lives in the hearts of men!” In my opinion, there has never been a better time in the history of publishing to be a fantasy fan. And for me personally, that is in large part due to Brandon Sanderson. His work captivates and inspires me so much, and I can’t wait to see where he takes his readership next. Is it too soon to start counting down the days until Book 5? But in the meantime, I’ll be reading whatever he puts out and rereading what he’s already given us. If you’re looking to escape from reality for a while, and would prefer to do so in a way that will lift you up emotionally and feed your soul, there’s no author I’d rather recommend. You can find this review and more at Novel Notions.

2024: I swear these books get even better with every re-read! I’m so ready for SA5! 2023: Re-read with my SO via GraphicAudio! Mission "share-the-Stormlight-love" accomplished! 2020: Mind: blown. Tears: shed. Awespren: sighted. Sanderson the literary god-genius has done it again. Singers vs. humans/ humans vs. humans/singers vs. singers: The lines of the conflict continue to be blurred – it’s not good vs. evil like, say, in Lord of the Rings. There are so many layers and questions, complicating the view of right and wrong and it’s just absolutely brilliant. (It’s also disturbing to see that the two major “sides” (singers/humans) are really not all that different from one another, having a similar hierarchy to their society built to benefit those in power. Why am I rooting for the humans again? Oh, right, Odium’s plans = bad.) Character development: (No plot spoilers!) Kaladin Psychologically it is also brilliantly done: Kaladin’s path to speaking his ideals over the course of this series perfectly mirrors his own personal development and it just constantly hits me how amazingly it all fits together. Even though Kaladin’s observation that he had lived four lives in five years is made in Oathbringer, those words still stick with me. How many lives are we up to now? Lirin I also loved that Kaladin’s relationship with his father is further explored and some issues are resolved. Though it was hard at times to see how Lirin views and treats Kaladin, especially considering how he suffers from depression and PTSD, again Sanderson makes the psychology behind it work, leaving you appeased and with an understanding of Lirin’s mindset. Shallan At first, I was a bit resigned that there is yet more of Shallan’s past she is repressing, but the revelation of this final (?) piece of her past is one of the six occasions that had me tearing up. Adolin We see Adolin becoming more his own man, trying to be of use in this world of Radiant powers while not pretending/aspiring to be a carbon copy of his father, the Blackthorn. And can I just say I love how supportive and understanding he is towards Shallan and her multiple personalities. I just wish we‘d seen more of him; he was notably absent from the narrative for long stretches. Taravangian Another character you love to hate and hate to love at various points in the course of this series and another example of how blurred the lines get. And I sincerely hate how good Sanderson is at toying with the reader’s sympathies that way. Navani Navani’s desire to overcome her feelings of inferiority by proving herself a true scholar nearly proves to be her hamartia and I am honestly never sure if I like her or not. Despite her intelligence she comes off a bit... naive at some point and that really bothered me. Venli As for flashbacks, this time we are taken to the beginnings of Venli‘s ambition and though they are probably my least favorite of all the flashbacks (my favorite is Kaladin, followed by Dalinar, then Shallan), they are still amazing, offering more perspective in how the Listeners came to use the old forms of power that would return the very gods their people once abandoned. So.... We finally get plenty of answers and, yes, yet more questions which we will hopefully get, with even more questions, in 2023. [2023 update: it’ll be 2024] Though I HATE THE WAIT, I am thrilled to be part of this epic fantastic journey and I am very much DREADING THE DESTINATION – the end of this first five-book arc of the Stormlight Archive, which is the most brilliant and amazing fantasy series ever written. Anna, Bran. San. Stan.

Check out my ranking of the Stormlight Archive books at Before We Go Blog. Rhythm of War combines the best aspects of the previous volumes of the Stormlight Archive and propels the series forward in new and unexpected directions. I don’t have nearly enough stars to give Brandon Sanderson for what he has accomplished with Rhythm of War. Like Oathbringer, Rhythm of War takes a global perspective of the epic battles on Roshar. Actually, the battles go well beyond the physical world of Roshar, and do so in spectacular fashion. Whereas the action in Oathbringer was largely dominated by the growing presence of magic, in Rhythm of War the limitations of the Knights Radiant become much more apparent. Instead, the focus on Rhythm of War is on scientific discoveries. One of the most compelling interactions is between Navani, who is an absolutely brilliant scientist, and her Fused counterpart, Raboniel. The race for scientific discoveries and the psychological battle between Navani and Raboniel is amazing. And I love how much respect they show for each other, even though they are enemies. Despite the enormous scope of the plot in Rhythm of War, the focus returns to the more character-driven aspects of the first two books in the Stormlight Archive. Navani is the star here, in my opinion. Her scientific and technological genius are the most influential parts of the book, as well as her keen understanding of psychology. Navani also has the best line in the entire book. (If you’ve already read Rhythm of War, then you know exactly what I’m talking about.) But it’s not just Navani. The character development in this book is riveting for so many of the characters we’ve grown to love. Kaladin grows so much over the course of Rhythm of War. His storyline will make you weep multiple times. It’s just so, so good. Shallan has another big secret concerning her past. Fortunately, Adolin is so unwaveringly understanding and supportive of her. Their relationship is just so sweet and perfect. I love them both individually, and I especially love them together. Jasnah is a boss. Her no-nonsense, take-charge attitude is amazing. There is much more Jasnah here compared to the previous two books. I also adore her relationship with Wit, which is based on an intellectual attraction rather than anything physical. Bonus points to Sanderson for the excellent ace representation here. And the ending…just when you thought the book couldn’t get any better, Sanderson gives us the ultimate epilogue featuring Wit and Odium. This epilogue will make you question everything.

Re-read 4/11/24: It's always a journey with these. Sometimes you never know why the author is taking us on these side-trips, but once you DO know, it tends to blow your mind. I particularly enjoyed the mental-health focus of this particular book. Not just for Shallan, but for Kaladin, too. It's almost as if Brandon knew we'd need so much of that during '20. But truly, it's just as welcome now. That's just a side note, however. This novel is so much more than that, of course. It's adventure, epic-scope and epic-stakes fantasy, and the characters keep on growing. Of course, by now, we have learned SO much about how the worldbuilding works -- and more importantly, how the Cosmere works. I'm loving it all. I cannot WAIT until the next. Original Review: After reading this very long novel, there should be some kind of fatigue. I mean. I think it's longer than SK's The Stand. So a reader OUGHT to be drained by the attempt. But no. Not this time. All these Stormlight Archives rage over me like the world-storms within the novel, recharge my heartstone, and make me utter all four oaths. Seriously. There should be a warning label on this book. "Careless consumption will lead to fandom." Okay, to be fair, I was already a huge fan of Sanderson for, like, forever. But ever since reading the last three books of WoT, carefully managed under his hand, I've known that he had all the chops. After reading almost EVERYTHING of his, since, and slobbering all over the place to get my hands on his OWN epic masterpiece since book one, to get the fourth at this point is something of a... Okay, let me say it. We're a cult. A completely mind-blown cult. We're all so invested in this story, have drunk ALL the kool-aid, and we're willing to walk off all the cliffs (or chasms, if you will,) to get the next one. And it totally satisfied. Oh, not only that, but it twisted all our expectations (or at least mine) and tore me to shreds, and made me despair. And then it built me back up again, made me wonder how the hell they were going to get out of this for a long time before subverting all my new expectations yet again. Let me just say this: Sanderson is a master storyteller. He knows what he's doing every step of the way. He keeps tossing that coin and tells us it's all a trick even while he's pulling yet ANOTHER fast one on us and we not only enjoy it, but we beg for more of this strange covenant. Or I might just say that we're all addicts and the IDEA of Sanderson in our heads is on par with a huge bank. In our heads, we just know that it can never fail. And if it seems to, our confidence is so huge that we make SURE it doesn't fail, and then, when our heads catch up to what's actually going on, we realize, out of the blue, that it was ALL A RUSE and he played us all yet again. Or maybe I'm just reading WAY TOO MUCH into this. :) Suffice to say... WOW, WHAT A BOOK! :)

100 stars. “We don’t always see strength the right way […] Weakness doesn’t make someone weak, you see. It’s the opposite.” As much as I loved this book when I read it, as many emotions as I was led to have from the incredibly beautiful, raw, and honest depiction of trauma and healing writing this review is something that has intimidated me to no end for a long time. This was such an incredible book that I feel like anything I say about it won't be able to make it justice and will never be able to even hope to truly express how I feel. Nevertheless, I must try to impress in this place just what I loved about this book and just why I am so incredibly in love with it. Among all the wonderful things I loved is the fact that it was incredibly emotional and dealt with hard themes and subjects in a human, honest, realistic way that captivated me to no one. Yes, they were really well handled and, therefore, rewarding to see but also deep-cutting and hard-hitting for what they need to be considered before entering the book as it threats with: depression, suicidal thoughts, disassociative identity disorder, grief, and self-worth ideals and they are very integral parts of the story and the character arcs that we go through. “We can never know another man’s heart, Brightness Sylphrena, but we all know what it is to live and have pain.” Entering the book I was not sure of what exactly I was gonna encounter, considering the way things were going in the last book it seemed a bit difficult to really know what I was getting into, the action and emotionality from the get-go was certainly not what I had in mind. Since the opening of the book, we go right on to the intense and fast-paced kind of action that such a complicated situation entails at the same time that everything happening is purposefully setting the stage, furthering the plot, and introducing new elements that will have plenty of time to play their part through the rest of the story. There's no space for preparation or time to waste. It starts with a bang and it certainly sets the mood for the rest of the arc. Not to say that there aren't plenty of, well, relaxed is not the right word but close enough, moments where the focus changes and we certainly can't be in a constant state of fight, but after that initial action scene, we get the rest of the physical intensity more sparsed through the book. There plenty enough of them strategically set to relieve some of the tension that builds up until the last part of the book that is a much bigger production than even the beginning. It's, definitely, well-paced and balanced between the many things that are happening. “So good with words. Humans are like persuasionspren. I can’t speak with one of you without being changed.” As many Sanderson books there is a lot of technical and scientific in-world aspects at play at all times in this detailed and ancient world. While we have always have had some time to explore those aspects this one is the one where we get to dive more deeply into the whys and hows. That is the direct result of the fact that Navani is one of the major narrators and her curious and inquisitive mind takes us to try to find answers to many important questions. Before this book I had liked her character well enough but never really paid her that much attention but, I must say, having had the opportunity to dive into her mind process and getting to know her better had made her one of my favorite characters in the series, up there with Dalinar, and that is saying a lot. The way that she sought and discovered many of the facts that we see was engaging and curious and while still being technical and complex I could mostly follow them, and that was just mind-blowing at all times. I always enjoy getting to discover the parameters and boundaries of new worlds and how they work and the amount of detail and exploration that we can see here is delightful and, yes, it made me need to take small breaks in order to process all the information. As compensation, now I feel like we are finally starting to understand this world a bit and leaving the era of mysteries and shadows. Alongside Navani's journey I had a lot of fun and, as difficult as it is to choose, I do think is probably the arc that I enjoyed the most. Though, saying that definitively is a bit too hard. “[…] that your actions define you more than your intentions. That your goals and the journey used to attain them must align.” There were so many different, individual, plot threads to follow around, all of them adding so much to the world and story and incredibly enrapturing that I feel like I ran a marathon trying to keep up with it all. Adolin, being one of my favorite characters, didn't disappoint in making me incredibly interested in everything that was going on with him. Though probably the most subdued of them all and more centered on introspection rather than action it spoke to me and, for the same reason that it was so internalized, gave me a lot to think about. His journey shed interesting light and clarification on plots that we have had since the beginning, and I am a total sucker for the really interconnected stories, at the same time that it offers new details and ideas to play with and consider. One of the things that did break my heart was the fact that Dalinar isn't quite as much in this book as he was in previous ones. I suppose I could have expected it considering that a good chunk of his story was dealt with in the previous book. Still, he makes great attributions and had one of the most shocking moments ever. There is, undoubtedly, a lot to unpack and see with all that he is dealing with and the way things are going on, especially as we start preparing for the mid-series break where things are bound to be cardiac all the way down. I can hardly wait to see just the way that they will end up combining and creating a concise picture. “Do you know what the humans gain by being so forceful? In reaching to seize before they are ready? Yes, their works crumble. Yes, their nations collapse from within. Yes, they end up squabbling, and fighting, and killing one another. But in the moment, they are the sprinter who outpaces the steady runner. In the moment, they create wonders. One cannot fault their audacity. Their imagination.” Villains are always a very integral part of a story, a villain can make or break a story doesn't matter how well constructed it is. So the fact that we are introduced to one of the coolest villains I've ever read, and that we had so much time with them through the book, was the best threat I could have ever had. Raboniel was just so hard to decipher and with such veiled intents that I just wanted to keep reading and reading of her. She certainly made the book thousand times more interesting and engaging. She is cunning and calculating and very smart making her a chilling opponent and not someone that you can easily thwart or anticipate and a formidable adversary is always one of the best things that can happen in a story. Just the level of insight that she allowed us to have into the immense history and legend of this world was worth everything. “It will [get worse] but then it will get better. Then it will get worse again. Then better. This is life, and I will not lie by saying every day will be sunshine. But there will be sunshine again, and that is a very different thing to say. That is truth. I promise you, [redacted] You will be warm again.” As previously mentioned, mental health takes an immense importance in this book and makes the whole experience a lot gloomier and daunting for its troubles. The fact that Sanderson had to actively add a lot more comedy and look for ways to make it more palatable and a little less likely to make everyone incredibly distressed, should really tell you a lot about just how heavy and dark the book can get. I can not insist enough that it is not a book that you should enter without being prepared and in a stable mental place in order to take care of yourself and positively enjoy the experience this book is gonna take you with. Because the story, the characters, the experience, have a lot to give. For me, it was an enlightening and reliving experience that allowed me to connect and understand the characters and world in a more profound way. It was a cathartic experience and one that filled me with hope and light. All the research and careful construction that Sanderson did while writing about these hard subjects were clearly felt and much appreciated. “We are the listeners. We will cast off everything – including our very forms if we must – to find freedom.” The flashbacks that are always such an integral part of this series were a bit different this time around than anything I was used to. For one, we had already seen some of the things that we were being shown, although, the different perspective did color and offered different insights into the whole story. We also have the fact that they started later than any of the others, which had me thinking they weren't gonna show up at all for a little while. I greatly appreciated the way they were different and unique compared to the rest of the flashbacks but still added so much context to the story I didn't remember a bunch of the things that we are re-showed through them and that was nice, at the same time the things I did remember felt more complete and fuller because of the added perception and that made me enjoy it a lot more. It is impossible to forget that it also allowed us to have one of the most beautiful scenes through experiencing them. As little as they actually added to what we knew of the story and the events that have transcurred beforehand they did make them fuller and richer because of them. “Who is a better swimmer? It’s the sailor who has swum his entire life, even if he encounters rough seas that challenge him. Who is the stronger man? It is the man who must pull himself by his arms. And that swordsman with one arm… He was probably the best in raw skill. He couldn’t win because of his disadvantages, but he wasn’t weaker than the others […] Tell me. Who is the strongest of mind? The woman whose emotions are always on her side? Or the woman whose own thoughts betray her? […] Our weakness doesn’t make us weak. Our weakness makes us strong. For we had to carry it all these years.” Then, of course, we have that incredibly intense and anxiety-inducing ending. After the ever creeping and growing tension experienced through the book the breaking point of it all was as satisfyingly sharp and heartbreaking as you could expect. Filled to the brim with action and liberating moments I couldn't stop gasping and crying through it all. Really, if I were under any more stress I'm sure I would have developed a condition without fail and missed everything. I love, love, love everything that went down from beginning to end, there's no doubt in my mind of it. However, the epilogue has to take the cake in the most shocking and stressing revelation that I have ever encounter. The prospect of what is to come based solely on how little I'm still able to grasp from it just makes my stomach turn and my blood freeze. I certainly cannot wait to see how it actually develops in the next book but, for the moment, it still has the power to shock me. Part Five of the book was certainly the epitome of everything we have seen through the series. “Radiant? How? How do you still fight?’ ‘The same you do. One day at a time, always taking the next step.’” I've already started to prepare for the next book because I'm certain that without the proper care and assistance I won't be able to survive it. I mean, it's enough that I have to endure the cruel wait till the moment I can rejoin my favorite characters but, I suppose, I should as well be ready for it. As much as I love making theories and assumptions as to what can happen I certainly can not even stomach the idea to start thinking to in-depth as to all the absolutely terrifying and painful scenarios that could arise and surge from the state of things right now. Especially after the slightly more settled and relaxed way things are. However the case, I'm more obsessed than ever with this world and I'm glad that this book surpassed all the unimaginable expectations I had placed upon it. It may have taken me a while to finish, but it was an incredibly worthwhile and important time that I needed to take. “The Ideals don’t fix us, sir. You know that. We have to fix ourselves. Perhaps with a little help.” ____________________ Wow. I was blown away by this book in every single aspect. Not that that surprises me, but it is of note, of course. By the end, I was babbling-mess and had my emotions going through the roof in the most satisfying of ways. After having the highest of expectations for this one I can safely say it surpassed anything I had imagined. The review intimidates me to no end, so it'll take a while to come, but I am so excited to write it at the same time. Because this book deserves the best review there is. RTC. ____________________ I have no words to describe just how happy starting this book makes me, like, I am down-right giddy with excitement... but I'm also really, really nervous. The last book came out about three years ago. I read it two years ago and it nearly destroyed me. This one is bound to shatter me into tiny, little pieces. I have a lump in my throat with the feelings that just the thought of starting to read it produces in me. I'm gonna enjoy every second of it and just let myself be transported on a wonderful journey... I hope I'm still alive by the end so I can share with you all my thoughts on it, but we'll see. ____________________ Stunned silence. That cover is so PRETTY! Seriously, it's truly gorgeous. My eyes have been blessed with its beauty. I'm so glad I pre-ordered this because I can wait to see it in person. I'm dying of how beautiful it is. ____________________ We have a title people! Just this tiny little detail can transform me into an excited mess. I'm not ashamed of that fact. Not. At. All. The waiting is drawing to a close.

Re-read before Wind and Truth I am so glad I re-read this before Wind and Truth. SOOOOOOOOOOO much happened and I had forgotten 80% of it. Like: (view spoiler) I luckily had remember some of the other great things that happened and man there were so many great emotional moments that made me so happy. I dread the book hangover that is coming post Winds and Truth. But Ash's Eyes I am so Storming excited to see what new Secrets and huge moments BS has in store for us. I don't know how it could be anything other than EPIC!!! Original Review When you read your most anticipated book of the year and it meets or surpasses your every expectation where do you even begin with your review? Well, I guess we will start at the beginning and in the prologue. The story opens with Navani’s PoV to let us see her in a whole new light. On the night Gavalar was killed she learned a few interesting things and we see how broken their marriage really was. The goals we thought he had for the shattered plains I have discovered the entrance to the realm of gods and legends, and once I join them, my kingdom will never end. I will never end.” With Sanderson I have learned that there is always another secret and he is a master at doling them out. RoW was no exception to that so many implications for both Roshar and the Cosmere both. At the revelation of who the true head of the Ghost Bloods really is I almost dropped the book in shock. There are so many building and emotional scenes throughout this book. So many tender and caring moments, so many infuriating ones. After this book I understand the Fused a little better and the goals of some of their people. Like all enemies there are those that are not all bad they are just people caught up in the middle of a war trying to stay alive. “Extinction is the natural escalation of this war,” Leshwi whispered. “If you forget why you are fighting, then victory itself becomes the goal.” Kaladin, oh Kaladin. I love the bridgeman and everything he has done in the series but his story while done well is a little bit of a struggle for me. He has battleshock really bad and has pushed through so much of it but it has become too much and Dalinar, seeing how much he is struggling needed to take him out of the main fight. Kaladin is lost through most of this story trying to find a new purpose and searching for a way to both heal himself and still keep his oaths so he doesn’t hurt Syl. But in true Sanderson fashion you know there will be the big moments for him still in this and the Bridgeboy is going to find a was through it somehow. Chapters 105 – 110 were the most emotional for me in this entire series. I absolutely loved the moment that Kal got in them. It was exactly what he needed and so well done I sobbed through most of it. Shallan also had an extraordinary story. She is dealing with some of her own issues including that currently she is alternating between three people Shallan, Radiant and Veil. Adolin is probably the best husband ever as he takes her exactly as she is split personalities and all. They do have a fun and interesting marriage as he interacts with all of her personalities differently. Her story was really one of the more interesting in the book as she tries to overcome things perceived as weaknesses and being pulled in so many directions. “Adolin is right,” Veil said. “He’s always been right about you. Tell me. Who is the strongest of mind? The woman whose emotions are always on her side? Or the woman whose own thoughts betray her? You have fought this fight every day of your life, Shallan. And you are not weak.” Adolin has grown on me so much from the semi spoiled child I thought he was way back in Way of Kings. He is truly a man now and I love how great a friend he is. He is really a great person and I get so excited when I think of him and Maya and how they together might change everything. “Adolin?” Kaladin said as he changed. “Your first thought was to get Adolin?” “I needed someone you couldn’t intimidate,” she replied. “That list at best includes three people. And the queen was likely to transform you into a crystal goblet or something.” He really is there for his wife, his father, his friends and his country. If there is anyone that can help bring a deadeye back, I think it will be him. I do love that he is rebelling a little against Dalinar as he becomes his own man. Navani is really at the forefront for much of this book. She has always been brilliant but due to some obligations and a husband that showed zero support she had been beaten down throughout the years. Her storyline ended up being one of the most exciting in the Tower as she both fought and worked with the enemy. It will make sense as it is very complicated. She really has come into her own and I thought she did a great job with the information she had. Navani is a fighter and she fought a hard battle in this. Dalinar, well he had his hands full too with the war and trying to learn how to be a bondsmith and what that actually meant. It is time for him to step back from the actual war into more of a leadership role. It is amazing his transformations. He is the one who will have to deal with Odium and the movement on that front totally has me concerned about him going into the last book in this set of 5. It should be pretty epic since we are now down to the wire. Dalinar is a really great leader and I wonder if he will be able to make a new Oathpact, hopefully a better one that doesn’t leave people stuck on Braize being totured. All of our characters go though so many things in this and I was stuck to my seat needing to know all the things in this book. There are so many great moments: People I loved (too many to name) People I loved hating (Taravangian and Moash you know what you’ve done) Relationships I am rooting for (Adolin/Maya, Adolin/Gallant, Adolin/Shallan, Kal/Syl, Jasnah/Witt :P) Characters I sobbed to say goodbye to (sheds a lonely tear) Characters I cheered for as they had their big moments (Navani, Adolin, Shallan, Kaladin, Dalinar, Rlain etc etc etc) Cosmere information that will have me pondering for awhile after this SO MUCH MORE… It was a fantastic ride and Mr. Sanderson has definitely outdone himself again. There is so much to worry about going into the next book capturing the final 10 days. I’m so nervous for all these characters that have become completely real to me. It will be a journey I look forward to.

This is a MASTERPIECE. No, that’s not up for debate. Sanderson in this book has really shown and highlighted his strengths in the fantasy genre and as reaffirmed the fact The Stormlight Archive is currently my favourite series being written currently. It is genuinely so masterful in so many ways and I loved this book so much from beginning to end. Even the tone and feel of this massive novel is epic in all proportions and it tells a tale filled with grandeur, heroes, and so much pain. The way Sanderson deals with mental health and writes characters is virtually unmatched by the majority of authors writing today. Both Roshar and the Cosmere as a whole has some of the most well-done worldbuilding in all of fantasy. The way this novel ended gave me the literal chills and let me just say, Sanderson has done himself good here. See, I’m a huge fan of Sanderson and he is my favourite author at the moment - which doesn’t mean all his books are my favourite, as some are certainly weaker than others, but overall, as a whole. Now, is Rhythm of War my favourite book in the Stormlight Archive so far? Well, it’s hard to decide as these books are all so storming fabulous in every sense. A part of me wants to say that Words of Radiance is still my favourite because that book is simply fantastic and I adore the character work in that book, but either way, Rhythm of War is not far behind at all. In fact, these four books are incredibly hard to rank as they are all fantastic novels that all have so much to them and this is a series that I will reread and reread again, both when new books in the series continue to be released, but probably also in between when I need something that I know is fantastic. I did have some problems and as incredible as this novel was, it also wasn’t perfect in my eyes, and there were some things that I wanted more of, or that perhaps could have been better. Firstly, there was a real lack of Adolin and Shallan, and those two are some of my favourite characters in the series(and all time) and they just completely disappeared during part 3, and only made a brief appearance in part 5. It was sort of odd in that they sort of just didn’t show up for a good four hundred pages, especially since I loved their storyline. Shallan goes through some really pivotal moments in here character development that I thought were handled incredibly well and really enjoyed the direction her character went in in this novel. Adolin is just great as always and sometimes, it is so wonderful to have a character that is just always so polite and heart-warming to read about no matter the circumstances. Unlike the previous novels, there is a year-long gap between Oathbringer and this book in regard to the plot, which I found interesting. On one side, I am really glad that we probably skipped many mundane parts and to push the story onwards instead being bogged down, while on the other side, I also wanted to have been there for some of the events that are described to us that occurred during the year-long time frame that passed. The pacing in this book is sort of odd at times. It started with an absolute banger with a super riveting first one hundred pages that served as a brilliant opener, before it went back to the more usual pace that I am accustomed to with these books. There is sort of a halfway climax point that was just so good, before things picked up again during the ending, which I’ll come back to. I have heard that people feel that the book could have been shorter and while yes, I agree, I also just love this world, so while it technically should have been shorter and it could have told the same story, I also don’t necessarily want it to be shorter just because how much I love spending time with these characters and spending time in this world. Kaladin’s journey in this novel, is well, clearly something that’s for sure. Kaladin is a phenomenally written character that has so much depth to him and I appreciated the way his story was handled. He has gone through so much hardship that I want him to stop suffering and to settle down and honestly, for him to go to sleep without worrying about protecting everyone for once. What can I say, he’s a character that I love immensely and his story so far from The Way of Kings until the ending of this book has been nothing short of total brilliance. This is Venli’s and Eshonai’s book and whilst I enjoyed their backstory chapters - which oddly enough did not start until part 3, which was almost half-way through this book, they also weren’t overly strong. Out of all the characters’ backstories that have been explored this far, my favourite has certainly been Dalinar’s followed by Kaladin’s. I’m going to have to say that as much as I enjoy Venli as a character(who really gives a lot more insight into the Singers), her backstory chapters were sort of weak and for now, they are probably on level with Shallan’s backstory chapters. This isn’t to say that I didn’t enjoy them, but rather, compared to especially Dalinar’s backstory, it wasn’t as strong. Like I love Shallan as a character but found her backstory chapters to not be the most interesting, even if they do provide detail into her backstory. I’m glad at the way that Eshonai’s story ended, as she is an interesting character that was quite mysterious, especially during TWOK and for most of WOR and it was great seeing at how her story ended. Two characters that shined in this book was Navani, and a antagonist for this novel, Raboniel. A lot of time is spent following Navani, and while some of it is slow, the pay-off is so storming worth, like my goodness it is simply stunning. Even though Raboniel is a villian, she was just such an expertly written character, that for all intents and purpose, was really more morally gray instead of straight up evil, which only made her more engrossing to read about in my view. Also, the ending with these characters was just absolutely brilliant. There was a fair bit more worldbuilding in this book, as well as the introduction of new technologies using these fabrials and stormlight and honestly, I’m glad it has moved on from more typical fantasy(not that it was in the first place). There’s also more easter eggs and hints to the overall Cosmere and to be frank, it had me squealing in excitement at how everything in coming together, even if there is a long way until Mistborn Era 4. It’s just so cool at these little things coming together and while someone can easily enjoy this series without having read anything else in the Cosmere, I would say that to get all, or at least most of the references, one should probably read both Warbreaker and Mistborn(At least Era 1 plus Secret History) to get the full context of everything. The ending was nowhere near as dramatic or climatic as the ending in either WOR or Oathbringer, but that was expected as Sanderson himself has stated that this would more be a WOK ending. I mean, I loved it so damning much, like, my goodness, each of these endings in these books has just been out of this world in their ingenuity and stakes. It’s just brilliant and there’s not a lot more I can say other than that. I also so deeply appreciate the fact that Sanderson, who is a white Mormon man is incorporating more and more diverse characters and views into his novels. Jasnah, who can step on me because she’s amazing, is asexual and Sanderson has confirmed this, and it is pretty obvious in the text, so I think that’s really cool. Many of these characters also do have darker skin tones and there’s different religious views as well and I think that’s just great. Yes, it is the bare minimal and so little compared to the YA genre and what it’s doing, but fantasy has really been behind in diversifying the genre, especially in regards to the big, big authors(yes, authors like N.K Jemisin or R.F Kuang now have bigger names, but nowhere near on the level of say Tolkien, Jordan, Martin, Rothfuss or Sanderson), so I do believe this is a step in the right direction. So, yeah, I love this book, and yeah, it’ll probably end up being one of my top three reads of the year, so that’s pretty dope and yes this is a longer review than I normally write, but then this is a massive book. 10/10

I loved this book so much! I fell in love with the story and the characters from the very beginning. This epic fantasy illustrates the importance of family and friendship, the cost of power, bravery, and resiliency. The writing is so descriptive and immersive that I forget that I’m reading. I loved that this book was able to combine amazing characters, an action-packed plot, awesome world building and great storytelling perfectly. The world building is one of the best I’ve seen in fantasy books; the history, the culture, the languages, the magic are all explained in so much detail. The characters are have a great deal of depth, and they are all relatable. I absolutely adore Kaladin, Syl, Shallan, and Adolin! I also really like Dalinar, Navani and the Bridge Four. I enjoying learning more about Navani and her past in this book while discovers her current path. Kal’s character development was excellent, by the end of the book he was much more confident in his abilities and realized that he is not a failure, he’s a hero. Shallan also had great character development, I enjoyed watching her come to terms with her past and realized that even though she made mistakes she came overcome them. There were many plot twists and revelations that shocked me. I felt many emotions while reading this book including happiness, sadness, shock and anger. The ending was action-packed engaging. I’m so excited to read the next book!

700 pages left on the reread, but now that I have Wind and Truth in my hands I have decided to forgo that and watch the 2.5 hour Daniel Green recap. This was my favorite book on the initial read, I’ll definitely return to it at some point but now is not that time. here’s my bad recap: Adolin becomes my favorite character by talking to inanimate objects, Navani fixes the HVAC system, Kaladin invents therapy, Shallan is at war with himself (literally), the gods make plans that may or may not work, Wit gets serious for once, incredibly nuanced “villains” are introduced as we explore the difference between corruption and enlightenment. Honorable mentions to Pattern, Rabonial, Venli, Renarin, Sja-anat, and Jasnah for their nuance and strength. Journey before destination, except when I’ve already read this and have a Daniel Green video I can watch instead.

“Journey before destination, you bastard.” It feels like a lifetime ago that I first read about the exploits of Bridge Four on the Shattered Plains. The quote above, though, reminds me that in some ways I've come full circle in that journey. It is a shorthand take on the motto of the lost Radiants in The Way of Kings (Stormlight Archive #1): "Life before death. Strength before weakness. Journey before destination." The Radiants have returned and the journey, like Brandon Sanderson's world in Rhythm of War (Stormlight Archive #4), keeps getting bigger, more immersive and epic! There is a compelling story with answers to some of the questions I had, but I'm sure I missed lots and will be rereading. 4.5 stars “No one ever accomplished anything by being content with who they were, Shallan,” Adolin said. “We accomplish great things by reaching toward who we could become.” “As long as it’s what you want to become. Not what someone else thinks you should become.” “I am an artist,” Wit said. “I should thank you not to demean me by insisting my art must be trying to accomplish something. In fact, you shouldn’t enjoy art. You should simply admit that it exists, then move on. Anything else is patronizing.” [It was great to have more Wit in this story and the chapter with this quote was a good one!]

Your actions define you more than your intentions. That your goals and the journey used to attain them must align. Now that's a great book, I was a bit sceptical this book wouldn't live up to expectations given that the first three books in the series are above average. The events in this book happened a year after Oathbringer, it was a year for them and three years for us. The human coalition are now working together, albeit withdrawn, but now they know that the threat is real and for them to beat the enemy they have to work together. Dalinar and Navani are in charge of the human coalition and the monarchs of Urithiru, Jasnah is queen of Alethi though Alethi is occupied by the enemy. The rest of the monarchs meet at Urithiru through the Oathgates. “It is difficult not to question your value to someone who seems to value nothing." The world building improved, just when I thought the previous books has good world building this one is still better. The book is written in third person multiple POV of the usual characters that had POV before. These book has themes that I admire in books, great friendships, romance, diversity, family relationships and many more. The fight scenes were so well depicted, it's like a television in my mind. Realizing that no matter how isolated you thought you were, no matter how often your brain told you terrible things, there were others who understood. It wouldn’t fix everything. But it was a start. I initially thought that this would be Szeth's book but I was wrong, it's Eshonai and Venli's book. The flashback started from when Venli was a little girl competing with Eshonai to how Eshonai found the humans and how Gavilar was killed, down to the present time.The flashback made me understand Venli and Eshonai more. There are lots of revelations in this, about the Spren, what caused the recreance and what actually made the Singers, Parshendi slaves. Characters Kaladin is ever my favourite, after everything he went through he still pulls through. I like that he admits that he has a problem and is more than ready to accept help. Syl, Adolin and Shallan really helped, good friends. We must not let our desires for a specific result cloud our ­perceptions. Shallan annoyed me for the better part of the book but then I actually thought about all that she went through and I understood, She has PTSD like Kal but she's more in denial. Adolin made a major breakthrough in this book, despite the changed world and High princes aren't that a big deal he still tries to make a difference. Time. It was a sadistic master. It made adults of children—­then gleefully, relentlessly, stole away everything it had given. Dalinar and Navani are a power couple, this book made me realise how compatible they are. The surviving Bridgefour members, Szeth, Lyft, Moash and many others were also in this.

First I was all "Yooooooo what the fuck?" Then I was all "YOOOOOOOOOO WHAT THE FUCK?!" Wanna see more?: https://youtu.be/TTN8Xf3iPsw

Update: [Dec, 2024] its been 3 years now and i previously said below "RTC" and have had pieces of my review written in like 3 different places (which have been sitting there for 3 years now...) but i just never got around to writing the full one?? this book really just left me in complete awe and devastation that i genuinely cant find the words for a proper review like i had in the previous books, but i'll at least leave my disorganized, incomplete review of ROW ↓ “This is life, and I will not lie by saying every day will be sunshine. But there will be sunshine again, and that is a very different thing to say. That is truth.” I honestly don't even know what to say like how will I be able to express just how much everything in this book hit me so hard? The joy, the the heartbreak, the pain--everything in here was written so beautifully, just like how every other book in this series has. But specifically in Rhythm of War I have never felt more destroyed over a character's inner conflict and watched them as they grew and faced it all. I've said it before and I'll say it again, but truly no review will ever do these books justice. I saw people complain about how this book was much more depressing and dark for them compared to the previous books and how they want to read books to escape from reality not to deal with such emotions--which makes sense but honestly that's what made me love this book even more. Like yes we all do read to escape from the problems in this world, but it makes me so happy when I see characters struggling with real world problems too; dealing with mental health, depression, self-hatred... and then when you watch those characters overcome those feelings--and not even completely, its done in a realistic way--I don't know about you but I find that to be the most emotional and motivating thing I have ever seen. I love it so much and will forever be screaming about how beautifully realistic the mental health rep is in The Stormlight Archive. No series will ever beat the representation this has and I'll stand by these words for the rest of my life. MAJOR SPOILERS BELOW (yeah its about *that* death, im forever scarred) I was literally paranoid this whole book about who was going to die AND STILL I NEVER EXPECTED THAT DEATH UNTIL THE SCENE BEGAN💀😭 MY HEART GENUINELY STOPPED WHEN I REALIZED WHAT WAS HAPPENING%@$#? Moash... I genuinely LOVED YOU in The Way of Kings. Then you went a bit crazy in Words of Radiance but I understood your anger (although you almost going through with Kaladin was not cool??). And then Oathbringer just made you lose any chance of redemption... AND NOW RHYTHM OF WAR- If I ever wanted to jump inside a book to commit murder, it would be here because you had the AUDACITY TO MURDER TEFT???? YOU BASTARD. GO DIE IN THE DEEPEST PITS OF HELL. I JUST??? I don't even want you to die anymore all I want is for you to suffer in a way nobody has ever suffered before in any book I've seen. You killed the man who was among one of the first to believe in Kal back in Bridge 4. The one who was always there for Kal during his toughest moments like Kal was there for Teft. You killed Teft who went through so many struggles and pain in life--to finally have overcome them all AND BE HAPPY.. only for you to kill him?! The most beautiful and heartbreaking thing about this is that at least Teft knew how much he was loved by everyone and especially Kal😭🥺 He died with this knowledge and that's the best way to die. Teft learned how much he was worth saving with all the self hatred he had and it made him happy. He smiled more, laughed more... and I especially can't get over how he left the battle to Emul in order to be there for Kaladin like??? MY HEART IT HURTS AND ILL NEVER RECOVER. *remembering the time when I said in my The Way of Kings review that nobody in bridge 4 better die* sobbing screaming destroyed.. the wrong bridge member died😭 Otherwise, this book truly has to be one of my favourites of all time, right up there with Words of Radiance, although I definitely think the Sanderlanche here beats them all because just wow!!! Jaw dropping moments!! Me crying my heart out!! Journey before destination, you bastard moment (so so iconic)!! fourth ideal!! ugh its all just so so amazing. brandon sanderson, i will forever be in awe of the magic you wove into these books, but especially in how you wrote these characters and their individual journeys. i cannot wait to see how everything ends and i truly fear the lives of so many favourites (haha i have trust issues especially after The Hero of Ages... but one thing for sure, it will be a conclusion like never seen before, and i cannot wait. ____________ fitting that my first book of 2021 was TPW and my last book is ROW😃 painful books am i right?? i am completely and utterly destroyed like that has to be the most nerve-wracking cliffhanger of all the books so far in this series...and to wait until 2023- *sobbing* RTC The Way of Kings:: ★★★★★ Words of Radiance: ★★★★★ Oathbringer: ★★★★★ Rhythm of War: ★★★★★ ____________ IM SO EXCITED AND SCARED TO FINALLY READ THIS. but im not ready to wait until 2023 for book 5😭 ill finish ROW before 2021 ends if its the last thing i do

5/5 “Our weakness doesn’t make us weak. Our weakness makes us strong. For we had to carry it all these years.” This book is phenomenal. When you think you know how the plot will go, it twists in a whole different direction. When you think you know the last secret, there’s a hundred more. And the characters are so unique and have so many layers to them. This series makes me so so happy. It’s filled with everything I could ever want in a series, and with each book, it only gets better as we see more of the world, unearth more secrets, and embrace life itself. “It is his ultimate lie, Son of Honor. The lie that says you have no choice. The lie that there is no more journey worth taking.” Dalinar is in this book quite less than he was in the previous books, but since Oathbringer was his book, it makes sense to give him less POV’s here. He is still amazing as ever, and his strength is really well written. Again, the politics and war tactics in his chapters are really immersive and interesting to read, and it makes everything seem so realistic. And the end. I’m so scared for Dalinar I might scream. He tries so hard to be a leader everyone needs while also being the father, husband, and friend others need. “You just want to stop existing,” Kaladin said. “You don’t want to actually kill yourself, not on most days. But you figure it sure would be convenient if you weren’t around anymore.” The amount of times I teared up reading about Kaladin is insane . Although many could say TWOK is his book, I honestly think his journey in this book is the most heart wrenching and emotional one. Before I go into that, I’ll say his plot line outside of his mental journey was as interesting as ever. The way his mental heath affected everything he did and how amazing the rep itself of it was is simply top tier. “I know how you feel. Dark, like there's never been light in the world. Like everything in you is a void, and you wish you could just feel something. Anything. Pain would at least tell you you're alive. Instead you feel nothing. And you wonder, how can a man breathe, but already be dead?” The impact of Kaladin’s depression and sometimes suicidal thoughts literally broke me. I’ve never dealt with that myself, but the honesty and rawness of it made it so heartbreakingly easy to understand. The struggles throughout the book of Kaladin and how he seeks to find self worth and how everything is just not going well for him made me so emotional. Him finally seeing his self worth and how he’s amazing and deserves so much is amazing. And there is no easy fix here. He isn’t suddenly okay. He’s still struggling at the end of the book. But at least he has the courage to get help. “Adolin is right,” Veil said. “He’s always been right about you. Tell me. Who is the strongest of mind? The woman whose emotions are always on her side? Or the woman whose own thoughts betray her? You have fought this fight every day of your life, Shallan. And you are not weak.” Wow. The journey of Shallan i this book is insane. Honestly I didn’t think she would have another secret in her past, but it makes so so much sense. Her own mental health journey in this book was so well done and emotional as well. It’s not as clear in the previous books, but it’s confirmed in this book in many ways that Shallan has a multiple personality disorder. Shallan struggling to find balance with her two personas, Veil and Radiant, as well as a persona named Formless, and just so many others is emotional. Shallan doesn’t see her self worth and doesn’t want to face the pain. She hides from so many things and doesn’t think she’s enough. But she is enough, and the way she is finally free of the veil on her mind is inspiring and I can’t wait to see what her arc is in the next book. And the entire ghostbloods plot line with her is so well done with the shady organization vibe and I’m so excited for the battle between her and the ghostbloods in TSA 5! “If we can choose, we can change. If we can't change, then choice means nothing. I'm glad I feel this way, to remind me that I haven't always felt the same. Been the same.” Adolin Kholin is the love of my life. This boy makes me so happy I can’t even describe it you guys. He’s so sweet and caring and loving and he tries so hard to help his friend and everyone with their mental health and he wants to understand them and help and also prove himself and he’s so amazing. His POV’s were my favourite I think (maybe I’m biased but sill). His plot line of making the honor Spren bond with humans again was so cool. Also his relationship with Maya guys !!!! It’s actually so so cool and interesting. And also. The fact he isn’t a knight Radiant is so special to me. Idk why but the fact he doesn’t have any special powers besides his own kindness and duelling and battle skills makes me soft 🥺🥺 “I am an artist,” Wit said. “I should thank you not to demean me by insisting my art must be trying to accomplish something. In fact, you shouldn’t enjoy art. You should simply admit that it exists, then move on. Anything else is patronizing.” Yo it’s the other love of my life in TSA!! I absolutely adore Wit with my entire being. He’s morally grey, mysterious, powerful, and so secretive and !!! Guys. He also helps people with their mental health and uses storytelling as a way to explain situations and make points about self worth and he understands the calmness in storytelling and how it helps people and he’s so sweet 😩😩😩😩 His sense of humour is top tier I adore him so much and need more Wit ASAP. “Love can’t change the realities of our situation.” “No, but it can change people.” Navani had such an amazing arc as well. Seeing her discover her self worth and being all smart and powerful and discovering major secrets as she should , QUEEN 😌😌 But seriously I admire Navani so much. Her entire storyline was absolutely insane. Jasnah was so cool. Being a queen, fighting in battles, planning with Wit , she’s a total boss. I can’t wait to see what happens to her next because she is so interesting and her power and confidence is aspiring. Szeth is now one of my favourites, 100%. His POV is always so good and his thoughts and struggles are so unique and he’s such a multi layered character. And the way his story is going into book 5 makes me so excited and I’m so hyped for his backstory! Venli was okay. She’s cool and all but got on my nerves and her backstory plus Eshonai’s was super boring for me and I skipped most of it tbh. But she does seem to be doing some interesting things now finally so hoped I like her more later. “We need both heart and mind," Lirin said. "The heart might provide the purpose, but the head provides the method, the path. Passion is nothing without a plan. Wanting something doesn't make it happen.” The plot. Guys it was so insane . I can’t explain much because it’s so complex and multi layered but the two climaxes and the way everything is plotted and foreshadowed and the way everything comes together I the end for good and band just makes it a masterpiece of storytelling. The way the battle itself has good, evil, and morally grey aspects that make it difficult to not empathize with people on both sides is so well written and thought provoking . Also the world building is so complex and well down and consistent , props to Brandon Sanderson for among such an amazing world. The ending is well done and so good !! And scary I’m so scared for my babies. Also I would like to say I hate Moash with my entire being and his obsession with making Kaladin suicidal and kill himslef is so disgusting and I despise him. The fact he is still alive infuriates me to no end. And the fact he killed Teft 😭 “No one ever accomplished anything by being content with who they were, Shallan,” Adolin said. “We accomplish great things by reaching toward who we could become. As long as it’s what you want to become. Not what someone else thinks you should become.” Shallan and Adolin are couple goals as usual. My OTP, they are so fluffy and sweet and make my heart flutter and I want a husband like Adolin 😩😩✋🏻✋🏻 The way Adolin cheers Shallan in and gives her advice and supports her always. !!! And the star spren scene is one of my favourites in the entire series it’s so fluffy and 💕💕🥺🥺 “But why do you care? What does it matter?" "You're my only Bridgeboy," Adolin said with a grin. "Where would I get another?” Even thigh we get really limited Adolin and Kaladin interactions, they’re my BROTP. Like the quote above, Adolin is again supporting one do the most important people to him. He is always seeking to help Kaladin and the way Kaladin actually lives and cares for Adolin is so sweet. I live for their friendship in more ways than one and I need more of it in book 5. More wars are lost to lack of information than are lost to lack of courage. In the end this book is a masterpiece. Complete , comprehensive. It’s filled with so many emotions and plot twists and amazing art and characters and I can’t recommend it enough. I’m dying for book 5 in two years and I can’t wait to see how Arc 1 of the Stormlight Archive ends. “It will,” Wit said, “but then it will get better. Then it will get worse again. Then better. This is life, and I will not lie by saying every day will be sunshine. But there will be sunshine again, and that is a very different thing to say. That is truth. I promise you, Kaladin: You will be warm again.”

Where to start? Pacing, character, worldbuilding? How about story? Rhythm of War is possibly Brandon Sanderson’s most ambitious approach to storytelling yet. As the cast of The Stormlight Archive continues to expand, he makes the bold decision to focus a sizable portion of the series on the antagonists—the Parshendi, the singers, the Voidbringers, whatever you want to call them. In Rhythm of War, that focus takes more of a front seat than ever before. Whether it’s the look into the recent past of the Listeners through the eyes of Venli and Eshonai, or the current struggles of the Last Listeners—Rlain and Venli—Sanderson provides lots of new cultural lore to chew on. But of course it’s not only the Listeners who are of interest: the Fused are here, and they’re more threatening than ever. Leshwi, the most important Fused encountered in Oathbringer, gets more time to shine in her own way...but we quickly find that she’s far from the only big-time Fused around. Sanderson seeds new characters into their ranks, from the relentless Lezian to the scientist Raboniel to the enigmatic El. This isn’t to say our original cast of heroes is left to cool their heels in the wings, though. Multiple characters get major arcs and development, while even those who don’t still retain agency and strong through-lines. Kaladin, Shallan, and Adolin have some tremendous storylines to follow, while the storyline around Dalinar goes more introspective...until one of the most terrifying and portentous conclusions Brandon has ever written. But the real show-stealer is Navani. Always a tertiary character before this, Navani gets her time at the fore, and boy does Brandon make the best of it. She sees conflicts both internal and external, tying together beautifully, to reach a glorious climax in unexpected ways. However, because of this shifting focus across characters, the structure of this book takes a bit of a departure from previous entries. Readers have grown used to the standard Sanderson story structure at this point: an early bang of action to establish interest in the opening pages followed by a relatively slow, contemplative exposition before hitting an explosive rising action and climax about ⅔ of the way in, resulting in what has become affectionately known as “the Sanderlanche.” In Rhythm of War, Sanderson kicks the whole thing off with a Sanderlanche. That makes for possibly the most exciting opening of any book he’s written, but it comes with a price: any good Sanderlanche comes with a denouement and appropriate revelations as things wind down. In Rhythm of War, this “winding-down” means the pace of the story slackens considerably near the end of Part One, and could result in narrative whiplash for readers. It also means that the book has a more condensed main arc after Part One. Personally, I enjoyed that a lot—for me, this is the fastest-paced Stormlight book after the first 25%, building steadily to an absolutely stunning Sanderlanche and conclusion. Seriously, you’re gonna be left with your jaw on the floor and a burning need for the fifth book. And that brings me to worldbuilding. This is an interesting one on this count, because it does a LOT of legwork for Cosmere worldbuilding, but not as much for Roshar-specific worldbuilding. There isn’t the wide array of locations and plots across Roshar that we got in Oathbringer or Words of Radiance—it’s a focused book, more streamlined. In the end, I think it’s better for that. On the other hand, the amount of Cosmere in Rhythm of War has gone well past the “easter egg” level. Where Words of Radiance shocked us with Nightblood and Oathbringer went a little further with Azure, Rhythm of War is moving into full-blown Cosmere territory. And I love it—but I recognize many people won’t. Stormlight-only readers are going to feel very left out at several points in this book. Major plot points are informed by information from other series. This is flat-out the most Cosmere-aware book yet, and it’s not even remotely close. Brandon Sanderson has always promised that each of his series, at least until Mistborn Era 4, will be able to stand on its own. With the publication of Rhythm of War, he may very well have broken that promise. For this reader, that’s not a problem. I will frolic amidst the Cosmere lore and spend many dozens of hours on forums and message boards over the next three years, eagerly theorizing and waiting for the climactic volume in the first arc of The Stormlight Archive. And on that note, I will leave with this. In my opinion, Rhythm of War is the best book Brandon Sanderson has yet written. His ability with the craft of writing has progressed so far that it barely even compares to the pre-Wheel of Time books he wrote. Rhythm of War is a stunning work. It feels much slimmer in story than the 460,000-word count would imply. It hits incredible character moments alongside stunning revelations about the world of Roshar and the apocalyptic conflict between Odium and the Knights Radiant. It’s a more-than-worthy new installment in The Stormlight Archive and earns every one of the 5 out of 5 stars I give it.

Edit: Just finished this masterpiece (1/14/22). Amazing book! So happy Adolin (view spoiler) Kaladin is one of the best characters I've read....Right up there with characters like Rand from WoT. Oathbringer was absolutely amazing, and I'd say that 3.5-year wait was just as worth it as the book (kinda).

“It’s not such a terrible thing, to be too weak. Makes us need one another.” I believe the quote above says a lot about this book, and the series overall for that matter. We see these characters put into one dire situation after another. Some they overcome quickly, and others it takes time. They cannot truly put themselves back together without help, and believing that they deserve redemption from their failures. Rhythm of War started out with a lot faster pace than I am used to in most Sanderson books. But, it didn't last long and the story begins to settle into a normal pace that is customary for this series. Once the pace slowed down, it did take me a while to get really invested in the plot. It just felt like it was taking so long for anything memorable to transpire. I wasn't understanding some of the terminology that was being used, and just felt a little lost at times. I decided to slow down my reading pace and really digest the book slowly, instead of seeing how fast I could speed through a 1,200 page behemoth. And that is when everything started to click. From this point on I was totally invested and loving every minute of it. It was really fun seeing the growth of so many characters in one book. Weather it be something they had been trying to overcome for several books now, or just getting more page time and their chance to shine. Maybe it's just my imagination, but it did seem that this installment was spread out over a larger number of characters than previous books. There were a two or three that took up more than all the others, and I felt it was time for their stories to be expanded on, but overall the story just felt broadened. “No army, no matter how clean its reputation, walked away from war untainted. And no leader, no matter how noble, could help but sink into the crem when he stepped into the game of conquest.” Speaking of broadened, Sanderson does expand on the Cosmere as a whole. I won't go into detail, but this book really sets up an expansion, not only for The Stormlight Archive, but some of his other series as well. Not in any extended detail mind you! Although, if you are familiar with his other works, it is there for you to muse about in the back of your mind. I know I did, and can't wait to see how all of this fits together. I have heard that this series will be broken down into two separate phases. With the first 5 books being phase one, and the second 5 books being phase two. I can see that being the case after reading this. As I said above, there is some terminology that isn't used in this series up until this point. Also, there are some major events that transpire near the end. Maybe I'm just reading too much into it, but I have a feeling book 5 is going to be the best book in the series so far. And now the long wait begins for the next installment in this series. I am glad I decided to slow down my reading pace and really appreciate the minor details. It helped me to pick apart things I didn't understand at first. I was able to focus on everything this book had to offer to the series and the Cosmere as a whole. Did I understand it all? I highly doubt it. But as the saying goes, "Journey before destination". “Honor is not dead as long as he lives in the hearts of men!” Actual Rating: 5 stars *****

MY HEART IS NOT ALRIGHT. WRITING THIS FROM THE CARDIAC WARD

“Some people charged toward the goal, running for all they had. Others stumbled. But it wasn't the speed that mattered. It was the direction they were going.” If I ever decide get a tattoo, it would say "Journey before destination." This quote sums up the series so well. I love my antiheroes, but the Stormlight Archive has made me realize that, after all these years, I am still a sucker for a straightforward hero's journey. Kaladin goes through so much growth in this book. He develops every book and with each new Ideal, but damn if this isn't the most he's ever struggled for the next step in his Radiant journey. He knows the words, has known them for a long time, but it is part of his character to resist them. Like Syl, I despaired at his spiraling depression and rejoiced as he found a new way to protect people: mental health care. (view spoiler). Moash is scum. That is all I'll say. Okay, I'll say a bit more. The main message of this series is: It's okay if you fuck up in life; what's important is you make amends and try to be a better person. Moash is the antithesis of that message and deserves to rot in Damnation. We finally recover all of Shallan's past in this book. All of the secrets she's carefully repressed. There are still a few small holes in her memory, but Shallan's character development matches Kaladin in terms of hefty growth. It is slightly frustrating that she harbors such self-hatred even after all this time, but trauma is not easily fixed, which is why Radiants must hold onto the mantra, "Strength before weakness." Small aside, but there's a little doodle of Pattern running in my hardback and it made me giggle. Dalinar is still important, but I think he takes a backseat to Navani this book. Through her POV chapters, we get a more nuanced perspective of the singers controlled by Odium and how their enemies have honor too. Navani has always claimed she's not a scholar out of repressed insecurity and her character arc is exquisite. We stan a queen. Well, two queens, including Jasnah. The fifth book can't come soon enough. My review of The Way of Kings My review of Words of Radiance My review of Oathbringer My review of Edgedancer My review of Dawnshard

The cosmere converges. I have read every Sanderson book in his cosmere universe and the convergence of characters, elements, worlds and magic is absolutely stunning. The pay off in Rhythm of War is enormous: Sanderson rewards the reader especially if they have read all the other books in the cosmere including Elantris, Warbreaker and Mistborn. I'm absolutely blown away at the forethought and organization that went into writing this latest installment in the Stormlight Archives. I say with little hesitation that the Stormlight Archive is my favorite fantasy series I've ever read, and I've read a lot of fantasy. Rhythm of War is different from the previous three books. There is less plot here but much more character and actual world development. In no other book in the cosmere are so many plot points and connections revealed. The character development is phenomenal, particularly for Kaladin, Navani, Venli, Adolin, Shallan and lesser characters like Rlain and many others. There is a HUGE focus on mental health in this book which I absolutely loved. Depression, self-loathing, anxiety and hopelessness are major emotions running through the pages. It was amazing to see how each character deals with their own demons and honestly inspiring to see how it could connect with the reader who is struggling with similar problems. The development of various villains was subverting and unexpected. You will not get any tired trops about good vs evil. No, there is depth and mystery behind all motivations which makes you just keep turning the pages. We get a much deeper peek into the parshendi and the complexity of their society and their subjugation to both humans and the Fused. Tantalizing information gets dropped on the reader about Wit, Szeth and Taravangian. There are just so many story elements that start stitching together and it was totally exhilarating to see thing start coming together. Of course, Rhythm of War is not a perfect book. My opinion mirrors those of others: there's a slog at the 3/4 mark and pacing goes stagnant. Some flashbacks aren't all that engrossing and some characters like Eshonai and Venli can be pretty stale. The Navani and Kaladin plot lines also get stagnant during this. There isn't a whole lot of action in this book compared to other Stormlight books and there seemed to be an inverse Sanderson avalanche. Most war action happens upfront and the ending has off stage action. Having said that, the reader is offered a tremendous amount of other content and development. I'd also like to offer my advice about reading order of the cosmere. I read the Stormlight Archive last and it really paid off. I think starting with either stand alone, Elantris or Warbreaker, is a good move. Then move to the first Mistborn trilogy. Then back to either Elantris or Warbreaker. I think after those, reading Arcanum Unbounded is the right move. After which, diving into the Stormlight Archive will really pay off. But of course, you can read any of these books in any order and it will work out. Love it! There's nothing more to say. This is one of the best, if not THE best, fantasy series ever written.

4.75/5 Stars Craaazyyyy I won't delve too deep into this because it is simply too vast to cover everything. This book was great! I liked it more than Oathbringer. I've heard that people criticize this book for its slow pacing, and although it does have that, I found it to be so much more bearable this time around. Maybe that's due to the fact that we actually get some answers here! The characters got even more complex and well rounded in this instalment. I know some people don't really enjoy the Parshendi chapters, but honestly, this book did it right. Two of my favourite characters from this book were Venli an Raboniel. My other favourite character here was Navani. She really stole the show. I very much enjoyed seeing her character arc throughout the series, and this book just made me fall even more in love with her. The world got much bigger in this book. Even though we know that all of Sanderson's fantasy books are connected to each other, we really get a better idea now then we've ever had before. There were a couple times where I didn't know what was going on, mainly things that were being referred to that happened in earlier books (which is my fault because I didn't re-read the series before picking this up). And there were times where things were not fully explained (either intentionally or not) that got me a tad confused. However, it still added a sort of mystery to this world that I like and will hopefully get all of the answers in the next volume (which I believe is the finale of this story arc, if I'm not mistaken). Anyways, this book is great and I'm sad I have to wait a couple years for the next one!

It’s been a while. Time to shake off the cobwebs. 😅 Rando thoughts on the 4th Stormlight Archive Saga incoming: What really makes this installment stand out is how the weight of the war is carried by the characters we’ve grown to love. Kaladin’s journey hits especially hard this time; watching him battle his internal darkness while trying to revolutionize mental health care for his fellow soldiers—all while navigating complex connections with his family was incredibly moving. ---> Let me shoehorn a holy smokes moment here at the end of this thought: what an “ideal” way to showcase Kal’s wonderful “fourth” coming acceptance. You could say at this moment, I was “running” with the “wind” to finish the story. Even at the detriment of sleep. Who needs it anyhow? 😉 Okay, back at it... Adolin is the ultimate MVP. Even as he questions his place in the world, his unwavering loyalty and his shift from graceful brawn to negotiator during the trial in Lasting Integrity show that you don't need a formal bond to be a hero. It was a Sanderlanche story arc that didn't require swords, shields, or bridges. The research in the tower, spearheaded by Navani, was a fascinating plot device as well. Her back-and-forth with Raboniel and the many revelations discovered were major highlights, finally giving her the recognition as a scholar she has always deserved. On the political front, Jasnah is a total powerhouse in her new role, showing us exactly how terrifyingly effective she is on the battlefield. Meanwhile, Dalinar continues to hold the coalition together through sheer force of will and highly adaptable bond powers against the shifting shadow of Odium. It is impossible to list everything that makes this book so great, but I’ll mention a few other standouts. Seeing the world through Venli and the flashbacks of Eshonai added a tragic, beautiful layer of empathy for the Singers that changed how I view the entire conflict. Additionally, Shallan continues to face her truths with a courage that is both heartbreaking and inspiring; watching her battle her internal personalities was extremely satisfying. While some personas stay hidden and others shine, it’s always fun to see how they navigate the world and provide emotional resonance. I also have to mention one of my favorites, Lift, who provides a much-needed spark of light in the darkness. And, as always, Wit arrives at just the right moment with a story to remind us that even when the rhythm changes, the song goes on. (preferably by flute) Lastly, what really surprised me, was the last chapter (One Final Gift)—it was probably my favorite of the entire book. Reading this was a deeply personal journey. I laughed, I unapologetically teared up, and I cheered for every small triumph. It reaffirmed why I adore this series: its that special blend of colossal, world-scale conflict with intimate, human stories. I finished the book both devastated by its sorrows and delighted by its triumphs—an experience I’ll cherish until the next storm.

Did I finish this book or did this book finish me?

Storms above and Damnation beyond THIS IS SUCH A MASTER PIECE!!! How can someone write a “proper” review for this kind of book??? Once again Brandon Sanderson DID IT AGAIN! *humming the tune of appreciation and love* This book actually wasn’t like what i expected, i was hoping to see more war and action story hence to the title “Rhythm Of War” but this book turned to be less action compares to the previous 3 books BUT it felt more meaningful because of the character arc stories, this book talk alot about depression, PSTD and anxiety. These characters are so strong and look so flawless but i love how Sanderson shows they have dark side and flaws and personal struggle too like anyone of us, it makes them felt so real and relateable and spoke directly to my heart, i feel alot more closer to them because of this book The more than 1200 pages felt like nothing, i flew through it!! no boring moment even tho i need to highlight about my feelings to these character POVs : - Navani POV confused me sometimes to imagine about how the fabrials work but i love she finally got the story to show her worth! - Kaladin POV was my favorite, his inner thoughts, his struggle and determination, his friendship with Bridge Four, Adolin and Syl are my favorite through the story, i laughed, i cried, i cheered for him, i even did this Bridge Four salute for some of his scenes - Dabbid one POV surprised me! How that one single story really felt so special - Adolin POV blew my mind, love love his relationship with Mayalaran - Dalinar POV uughhhhh.... i want more LOL So many questions answered but also so many new questions came up in the surface... i honestly don’t know how i’m going to wait for the next book (OH THE PAIN TO KNOW I NEED TO WAIT FOR 3 YEARS) I think it’s hard to write review without saying spoiler so i will try to write this very briefly and say.... this book probably wasn’t like what i expected but it was something I NEED, thank you so much Brandon Sanderson for this masterpiece 5 STARS!!!

This is the fourth instalment in The Stormlight Archive series. Dalinar Kholin and his Knights Radiant are engaged in a seemingly unwinnable war. Time passes, little changes, and more lives are lost. They need to find an advantage to fend off their enemies and Navani Kholin might just be the one to unearth it. So much was revealed here that made reading the previous three, epic series instalments feel like scaling a mountain and reading this book feel like cresting the clouds and finally reaching the peak. I'm not sure if I was breathless from the thin air or from my open-mouthed awe at all Sanderson delivered! The final chapters were not only thrilling and well executed but they each incorporated a series of perspectives, whereas most previous ones only contained one or two viewpoints. The quick shifts between them kept the pace high, my intrigue piqued, and the suspense at a maximum. I honestly had no idea what would occur, and which characters would be lost during each scene, but loved the path that was taken. A conclusion to this story arc was granted but there was also a future hinted at for many of the characters. It left me excited to continue on with them, in new adventures and new settings, and to see what else Sanderson can reveal about his epic and awe-inspiring Cosmere creation.

Masterclass in every sense of the word!!! I am in awe and speechless. This was almost if not as good as 'Words of Radiance'!! Review to follow.

Rhythm of War is the fourth entry of the great stormlight archives saga from Brandon Sanderson. The first time I read a book from Brandon Sanderson was in 2007 and although many years had passed his talent had never dwindled. In 2015 I read the way of kings and Words of radiance in a row and needless to say WOR was for me the perfect fantasy book my favorite by far. Alas I found Oathbringer a letdown. Although Oathbringer is a good book by my standards it didn’t live up to my expectations and the level set by WOR. I had high expectations for ROW and Brandon Sanderson deliver not only a great sequel but a book whose quality excelled WOR. The force of ROW is the change of POV. The first three books evolved mainly and too much for my taste around Shallan. Needless to say I was happy to see her less. Yes she’s a great character but I think it was time to see something else and Sanderson did it. He brought in light some background characters and it was a great move. Navani Kholin is Dalinar’s wife but also the head of the scholars. ROW is the path where she had to decide if she becomes true to herself or let others decide in her place. Adolin Kholin is the elder son of Dalinar and unlike his little brother isn’t radiant. After some unfortunate events he needs to prove his value to his father. Dalinar will give him a difficult task convince the honorsprens to work again with the humans. An almost impossible task especially after the recreance when thousands of sprens died. Venli is Eshonai’s sister or more accurately the last listener. After betraying her people , Venli is working with the gods her people had run away from long time ago. She struggles between two paths , her legacy and the new way with the fused. She hid a secret from everyone and maybe it will become her salvation. ROW is a powerful entry in the stormlight books, fast paced and everything is relevant. I won’t add more because I’m too afraid to spoil but I’m looking forward to read the last book of the first arc.

"You can bear it. You can remember it. Our weakness doesn't make us weak. Our weakness make us strong. For we had to carry it all these years." Rhythm of War reminded me of why the Stormlight Archive series was always where I looked to when I needed to be inspired, its characters were whom I turned to when I was in need of remembrance of what strength and courage really was. It was somewhat different from the previous books, especially from Oathbringer. In Oathbringer I got my mind blown over and over by the continuous revelations, the actions and events was an avalanche of overwhelming tensions. But in Rhythm of War, the revelations lead to pile and pile of questions, the world of Roshar had exploded by the cosmere convergence, because from now on we were officially trodding on the scale of universe and its enormous mysteries. If one had to acknowledge every aspect of a book, Rhythm of War granted was slower in pace, there were some parts that dragged and slogged its way on. This fourth book was where fantasy met science, where magic, technology and art blended into something truly wonderful. Yeah maybe Navani's part was a tad too technical at times, though personally I enjoyed it, I found the whole explanation of the mechanism of fabrials, to be very intriguing even when I didn't understand it. The whole part with the concept and properties of light and music, and how Navani discovered, invented the Rhythm of War and other lights was one of my favorite in the whole series. I was totally struck and stunned by how amazing, how brilliant a mind Sanderson had. I always loved how his magic system had sense, in each and every book he had written, the magic system was a conjuration of imagination and science, it was always crafted masterfully with absolute care. Rhythm of War was also distinct from the predecessors due to its weighty topic of mental illness. The portrayal of depression, PTSD, loneliness, personality dissociative disorder was handled in a very thoughtful, in depth with the perfect amount of balance. It didn't only show readers how life was for people who struggled through it but also how was it for the family and friends who watched their loved ones fought through it, who couldn't do much directly. Personally in this case, Kaladin's struggle through his darkness was pretty relatable to me. The truth was some things could only be understood by people who had gone through the same thing in their life. Depression despite being one of the mental illness suffered by quite the amount of people in the world was still misunderstood and judged with lots of misconception, even intolerance, unkind or direct hostility. It tore relationships because family and friends were helpless and unable to understand. Sometimes acceptance was more important than understanding, that sometimes, really, the presence of support, love and patience, of being there was everything and enough for the person who suffered MI to know and have. This was a very delicate and sensitive issue as people could be so judgmental, and Sanderson did a very impressive job of juggling the balance. Shallan's MI and Adolin's genuine love and support was so moving and inspiring. The characters development was not limited to the characters who fought traumatic events though, but also the other POVs and side characters. This fourth book was the heaviest one in personal development yet. It's all about choices, the ability to change, to grow, about potential, about redemption. It's about overcoming challenges, weaknesses, the past, keeping moving, taking the next step, even just one step at a time, it's about journey before destination, strength before weakness, life before death. "No man can judge another man's heart or trials, for no man can truly know them." The Stormlight Archive series was simply something else for me. I wouldn't say that every book written by Sanderson was my favorite. In fact, some of his books despite being brilliant in every way technically, didn't truly connect with me. But with Stormlight Archive, it just touched me in a very fundamental way, the world and all the characters were so, absolutely significant to me, I was beyond invested, it was always able to leave such impact. And Rhythm of War was simply a perfection. It was just truly dazzling in its powerful, meaningful themes; majestic in its grand scale of plots and vast stories, its complex world-building; remarkable in its meticulous, painstaking details, the way the lines and points met; marvelous in its endless mystery, the way it never stop to amaze, to surprise, magical in its genuine; heart-wrenching way to provoke, inspire emotions, breaking and healing hearts; radiant in its prompting, coaxing to make us think, question, ponder about everything. "This is life, and I will not lie by saying everyday will be sunshine. But there will be sunshine again, and that's a very different thing to say. That is the truth." "If we can choose, we can change."

So this was the last book of the series thus far. #5 is coming this December though. The scope of these books is really breathtaking and it wasn't any different here. However, to give you a little overview, here goes: We could say that this is Navani's book. The prologue shows her and how she experienced Gavilar's death. I must say, I never thought the former king had been as noble as people made him out to be, but that he was THAT big of an asshole made me ANGRY. We then move on to Kaladin traveling to his earstwhile hometown meeting up with his parents again. Colour me NOT impressed. What a pair of douchebags! The dad was definitely worse (ironic, considering that he was the doctor and should have known at least a little about how to treat someone with a mental illness), but it's not like the mother tried to hold her asshole husband back. Anyway, we get some cool "tech" in that part of the book, like flying ships! At the same time, Shallan is still trying her infiltration scheme with the Ghostbloods but neither are things as they seem nor is anything going according to plan. Her narrative doesn't get really good until she's in Shadesmar with Adolin though. There, they are trying to find a way for the Honorspren to "come back" aka to bond with humans again. That leads to one hell of a ... trial. Most notably, we had to finally get a sort of resolution regarding her disassociative personality disorder (split personality) and boy, did we ever. (view spoiler) I didn't know whether to scream or cry or both at the same time. Honestly. I'm glad it got sorted. Kinda. I mean, it started putting everything in a different light (showing how great the writing is) and that kinda didn't stop after we got (view spoiler). Wouldn't it have been kinda awesome (in a shocking way) if (view spoiler)?! I guess what broke my heart was that (view spoiler) because that is devastating. Dalinar and Jasnah have a mission, too, but that one seemed like nothing more than a convenient way to get them out of Urithiru. *lol* Giving Navani time to shine. OK, OK, she couldn't have done it without Kaladin, but she was still BADASS. Personally, I loooved how we got the whole mental illness thing. In my personal opinion, Dalinar was right in pulling Kaladin out of active duty. He does suffer from depression AND PTSD, after all. Plus, it gave him important time to care for others - which he did in a brilliant way by the way. This also means that how Kaladin (view spoiler) was nothing short of liberating for us readers. Traumatizing, but also liberating. I mean (view spoiler) and that it was (view spoiler) had me screaming in anger! But it was about time and there have to be consequences if the story has to have any impact. Besides, me caring so much means Brandon Sanderson has me thoroughly hooked. Speaking of which, I was actually happy when (view spoiler). *looool* Yes, people will gasp at this admission, but see if I care. And can we just take a moment to cheer Adolin? He's not one of the big players but he's just so ... NICE! He's great with Kaladin despite not being a medical professional (just a great friend), he's fantastic with Shallan (and all her personalities, like a boyfriend/fiancée/husband should be), and he saved the day in Shadesmar! Sure, there is an argument to be made about (view spoiler) having been the key. However, the type of confrontation was his (quite brave) idea and it was pretty brilliant. He's just a good guy and makes me (and the people around him) laugh, which is a seriously underrated skill! This is not a sprint, kids. Not only is every single book amongst some of the thickest in literature, the series has been said to be quite long by the end, too. I have to admit that some passages in this and the previous book felt like filler material. However, upon introspection and especially after having finished this book / seeing the pieces fall into place, it has become clear why every detail was quite important. Sure, some books might have only fast-paced action and that gets everyone especially excited, but at least to me, worldbuilding and characterization is highly important as well. So yeah, still a massive fan.

This *sobs* I love this *curls up in a ball until the next one*

As always, Sandford delivers an engrossing and entertaining book. Having read all of the books in the Prey series and the Virgil Flowers series, I feel like I am deeply acquainted with each of the characters and have a vested interest in their lives. You would expect at some point that the stories would become rote or redundant, but not at all. Very enjoyable read.

Two of my favorite characters in the same book? No way this one won't be a winner, I said to myself as I happily opened it on my Kindle. And in no way was I disappointed. Well, maybe a titch in one respect; mostly because of asthma and a little bit of claustrophobia, I'm not a fan of putting my head under water at all - not even in the shower. So, the mere thought of scuba diving gives me hives. That's a big part of this story, so I was on the edge of my seat throughout, trying not to hold my breath and hoping that no human would be harmed in the process (close calls, however, not only are acceptable, but expected). The two characters are Lucas Davenport, now with the U.S. Marshal's Service, and his buddy Virgil Flowers, an agent with the Minnesota Department of Criminal Apprehension. They've had books all to themselves for years (with the occasional cameo appearance by one in the other's), and I'm pretty sure I've read them all. This time out, the balance of power gives a slight edge to Lucas, but Virgil certainly makes his often irreverent presence known. The story begins in Florida, after three National Guardsmen are murdered by what appear to be drug smugglers. Lucas gets called in, agrees to investigate, and convinces Virgil to join his team of expert cohorts. That leads to some serious confrontations, at least one of which doesn't turn out well. The trail leads from Florida to New Jersey and back again, putting both Lucas and Virgil on dangerous ground (well, in Virgil's case, that would be in water). In between are the usual quips and one-liners that never fail to make me chuckle - here, it's double the fun - and plenty of excitement as the rush is on to identify and catch the bad guys before they get away. All told, another great adventure with double the usual appeal - highly recommended! Many thanks to the publisher, via NetGalley, for the opportunity to read and review a pre-release copy.

Think of having desert. Not just any desert, but your favorite desert: Strawberry Shortcake, or Apple Pie, or a Chocolate Sundae. That is how I think of a John Sandford book. This isn’t about nutrition; it is just for enjoyment. It is not like I learn anything or am inspired to anything. (Actually that would be rather scary given the plots of these books.) It is just simple enjoyment, or indulgence. These books are just to be enjoyed. Turn the pages and find out what happens next. The Sandford books come in two series, one featuring Lucas Davenport and the other featuring Virgil Flowers. Both characters are based in Minnesota and occasionally their path cross, but in this book you get a double treat as both Davenport and Flowers are featured each with their own story line. Now that Davenport is a U.S. Marshall his investigations have taken him to other parts of the country. This one is set in Miami and involves drug smuggling. Flowers is recruited by Davenport to help with the investigation. I recently read and reviewed a book about WWI and mentioned the horrific body counts after many of the battles. The body count in this book is not quite as high, but there are some people killed. It does pain me to say anything negative about a Sandford book, but some of these killings are of innocent people, and Davenport may have been the reason for their deaths. Davenport has been known to take justice into his own hands on occasion, and no one can object too much to a bad guy being killed. But here he is so focused on getting to the head of a drug ring that he ignores the danger that he is exposing to some of the people he questions. The writing is sparse, almost Hemingwayesque and the tension is taut. It is one of those reads where you think, “Just one more chapter.” I missed two afternoon naps and read past my bedtime a few nights. Almost everyone, I’m sure, has their favorite authors. Sandford is mine. My favorite desert is a Banana Split.

This book delivers believable though fantastical action in the world of law vs drug criminals, and we get to spend satisfying time with Lucas as well as Virgil - two great characters. I highlighted so many passages that I loved and was entertained by...maybe I could share a couple. Nope, I won't do that as I wouldn't wish to rob anyone of the pleasure of reading this book and finding their own favorite segments. Yes...somehow Marshalls are needed and wanted by the FBI - to work with, that is!

5 Stars. I was skeptical when opening page one. How could this be a joint Davenport, Flowers novel? It's a "Prey" title isn't it? I enjoy both, with a lean to Virgil, so I thought I'd probably love this new approach anyway. Having read it, Flowers and Davenport do deserve equal billing, and I loved it as expected. In baseball, batting one for two is a good day. Sandford goes two for two. Rather than #31 and #13, it truly is "Davenport & Flowers #1." We get right into it. An astute Coast Guard officer, Barney Hall, out fishing on his day off, spots something strange. A lone scuba diver far from shore suddenly gets picked up by a speedboat. After suggesting a boat inspection to the on-duty team, Hall watches in horror as three Coast Guard men are shot. Soon the FBI are all over the Miami / Port Everglades scene but results are meagre. These drug gangs are professional - modern Mafia out of New York and New Jersey. They make few mistakes. That's the case until Davenport and Flowers begin chipping away. Lucas first asks, "How much does a wet suit weigh?," and then Virgil gets serious about deep sea diving. Suspense galore. It's taut and tense. (May 2021)

Just when you thought Sandford had no where to go with this series he pulls Ocean Prey out of his - well you know where I am going with that. Virgil and Lucas together in the one novel with a major shock that I was not expecting at all. This book had it all. Let's hope that rather than one book on alternative years for our boys we get more of them together. The story itself was extremely compelling, and once I started listening I could not stop. There is not much that I can say that I have not said before, I simply love these books and characters. If this is a series you have not read, or if it a series you have been waiting to start don't delay its more than worth it.

In Ocean Prey, Sandford's latest in the wildly-popular Prey detective series, three Coast Guards are gunned down while investigating a suspicious ocean craft and then the boat is burned, killing Lucas' girlfriend who is also a high-ranking FBI officer. When the FBI fails to solve the mystery, Lucas and Virgil Flowers get involved and quickly come up with threads to pull as only they can. It is unusual for both Davenport and Flowers to be the main characters in a story but in this story, it works brilliantly. The story is fast-moving and clever, the scenery well-defined, and the characters vintage. Sandford has a way of writing these stories that I don't find in other novels, a little like a police procedure but not so technical. Here’s an example. “We’ve still got twenty-five minutes on the movie,” Bob said, when Weaver rang off. They watched the movie to the end and a few minutes of a sports talk show, and then Bob went back to his room to catch some sleep. Lucas was a night owl and spent an hour reading a Lee Child thriller.” Detail about life beyond the explosive moments that occupy all cases. Sandford's writing style is to create characters that are sharp, clever, and human. For example: "Where do we find the guys whose toes we’re going to step on?” "I never even saw your name in the newspapers.” “There’s still newspapers?” “Hell hath no fury like a woman yanked out of La Perla . . .” One annoyance: For the first time I can remember, Sandford got a little preachy. Virgil was annoyed at Lucas because Lucas tends to shoot bad guys to save his own life. Virgil didn’t think Lucas always tried all other available options while Lucas was sure he did. This came up three or four times in the book, enough to tell me Sandford was trying to make a point, and enough to annoy me. One more annoyance: Every book in this series includes a character saying "F***** Flowers” (if you read the series, you know exactly what I mean--like Clive Cussler cameoed in every book he wrote). Not in this one and I looked for it--even did a search for the phrase! The closest I got was Virgil saying, "F*** me." I don't know if that counts... Luckily, Sandford is a magnificent storyteller so I recovered from my angst. Overall, an excellent read--as usual.

I would give this book 100 stars if I could! Besides one MAJOR DAMMIT happening, the book was beyond my expectations. I loved the banter between all the characters in this book. And for the most part it was banter :) Each person has a unique sense of humor and wit and Sandford employed it to the max. I think being from Minnesota helps with the Sandford written dialogue as it is SO Minnesotan :) YOU ROCK! The only problem is the long wait for the next book. No one does books better.

Oh, John Sandford! You have gone and done it again. How do you keep writing such wonderful books? One would think that you would run out of ideas, but (thankfully) no, they just keep coming! Thus, another couple of sleepless nights spent devouring it! This time Sandford's intrepid detectives, Lucas Davenport and Virgil Flowers, team up on an adventure in Florida. Drug running, the Mafia, murder, it's all here. And told in the exciting and fast-paced way that the author masterfully employs. Of all the authors in this genre, I truly believe that Sandford is one of the best. I was particularly pleased at the way this novel wrapped up. I found it much more satisfying than some of his others (readers of his books know to what I am referring, Davenport's penchant for vigilante justice). As I have come to expect, Sandford drops hints at possible future adventures for his characters. I, for one, am eagerly awaiting the next one! Thanks to NetGalley for an advance reading copy of this book.

US Marshalls Lucas, Virgil, Bob and Rae head up a task force of FBI agents in pursuit of a gang of murderous drug smugglers in South Florida. This is a complex police procedural with John Sandford's signature action and humor I found highly entertaining.

I've said it before and I'll say it again: Sandford is a master of pacing. Add to that the combination of Davenport, Bob, Rae and Virgil-- with a new character, Devlin, who I think will be back -- and he's written one of his best books in a very long while. And oh, the Author's Note. As an author myself, I want to shake his hand and say, "thank you." A must read.

I am a longtime fan of John Sandford's Lucas Davenport series and his Virgil Flowers series. I feel like I begin every Sandford review like this, but it is true, and I believe that knowing this should help potential readers who consider my review. I feel like I've been here for the long haul, even sticking around when I suspected either one or the other of the series took a wrong turn and was headed down the drain. So, once again, I was delighted to have the opportunity to read and review an advanced readers copy of Sandford's latest book, Ocean Prey, the thirty-first installment in the Lucas Davenport series. I was even more excited to learn that the book is also the thirteenth installment in the Virgil Flowers series. Two of my favorite detectives in one book! Ocean Prey begins as a Davenport book. A fancy boat stops and picks up a diver in the middle of the water off the coast of Florida. An off-duty member of the U.S. Coast Guard witnesses the suspicious activity and calls it in. The Coast Guard is in pursuit, but the men on the boat kill the pursuing Coast Guard members and get away. The subsequent investigation stalls, and U.S. Marshall Lucas Davenport is called in to do his thing. When Lucas runs into difficulty, he calls in his longtime friend and associate, Virgil Flowers. I think Ocean Prey is one of the best prey/Lucas Devenport books. Although Sandford usually does a good job at leading the reader step by step through the investigation, this seemed more apparent in Ocean Prey. Ordinarily in prey books, when Lucas enters a case, it feels like everything moves at a rapid fire pace. Here, however, Lucas's investigation seems to proceed at a slower rate, and obstacles impede his investigation. I am still in shock over one such impediment (a spoiler which will remain unnamed); I both dislike and deeply respect Sandford for making that move. But, the obstacles and the seemingly slower pace make Ocean Prey feel more realistic. I also think Ocean Prey is one of the best Virgil Flowers books. I am not a fan of Frankie, so the same old Virgil working a case with Lucas in Florida (i.e., far from Frankie) makes it an outstanding Virgil Flowers book. Quite simply, Ocean Prey is outstanding - one of Sandford's best books ever. Highly recommended.

Sandford is in top form with this nail-biter, laced as always with LOL funny. The reason it's called Ocean Prey is because a boatload of heroin ends up in the ocean off Florida, and the usual drama is ramped up by the diving risk by one of our fave characters. Virgil Flowers, having conveniently spent the last few months learning to deep-dive, is brought in to work undercover with the mafia. These Florida criminals are good. There's a tragedy that gets badass Rae working with Virgil for the first time, and they're a hoot but also really effective. The heroin is being shipped to New York and offloaded at a car wash to distributors. Lucas is working with those guys, and he sprinkles some high-profile fairy dust on deserving law enforcement personnel, which is gratifying. (Sandford is so good at creating characters. As an author myself, I wonder how he keeps track of them.) This book had so much dramatic tension in it I almost wanted to sneak ahead and make sure everybody came out okay. A great addition to the Prey library. PS the entertaining Author Note at the end addresses some of Sandford's bloopers in previous books, including that "safety on a Glock" issue that many of you noticed (David Putnam). The tone of the Note shows you where Lucas comes from really. Enjoy.

The book begins with the murder of three Coast Guardsmen after they intercept a boat picking up a diver. The local authorities and FBI aren't getting anywhere so Davenport and Bob are called in. Following a lead (that Bob though was too easy) they walk into an ambush and Bob is killed. Lucas is only saved because they had the FBI with them as backup. With all the lose ends disposed of and Lucas' leads dried up he goes home to plot his next move, while the FBI watch the only suspect Lucas has left. Then Willy and Ally show up a slow talking diver and his ghetto chick who agree to recover the dope at the bottom of the Ocean for Cattaneo and his friends. With all the pieces in place Lucas has his prey in his sights the only question is can he get Willy and Ally out alive when he springs the trap. With only seconds to warn Ally (Rae) only her fast thinking keep her and Willy (Virgil Flowers) alive long enough to bring the bad guys to justice. Lucas doesn't even shoot anyone in this book, apparently he is turning over a new leaf.

This was an excellent, well-written book. Lucas Davenport is called in to help with an investigation of three Coast Guardsmen killed on the job, and he brings in Virgil Flowers to assist. The book was fast-paced and I didn't want to put it down. This book can be read as a standalone story, though it is #31 in The Prey series. I really enjoyed this book and will impatiently be waiting for the next book in the series to be written and published.

This is the whole entire gang. Lucas, Virgil, Bob and Rae, with teensy bit parts to Weather and Lucas's various senators and politicians. Virgil and Rae get a big piece of the hero action, and every scene with those two together shines, but Rae absolutely dominates. Big Davenport fan and Prey series fan here. I loved it. I also like how Lucas is getting older each story, year by year. It's good to see Virgil doing more action hero duty with Lucas playing the brains of the operation. I can buy that.

I love it when books educate me and dive deep into a subject that is new to me (pun intended). This book, with so much about diving and the ocean , was a whole new world for this Kansas girl and it was so much fun to read. I’m not a huge fan of organized crime books but I do love Lucas and Virgil. I loved that they each got their chance to shine and the plot was thrilling and well paced. Another excellent Sanford book.

Winner! Ocean Prey is indeed a winner. Fans of this excellent series will want to include this one if, for no other reason, it contains a bonus: That f****ing Flowers! Yep, about a quarter to a third of this story focuses on Virgil Flowers who helps Lucas take down a mob controlled drug ring. The story begins on the water off the Florida coast, with the Coastguard encountering some rather suspicious goings-on. The result is three dead Guardsmen who, as federal officers, cause the case to involve the FBI. Eventually, Lucas Davenport, now with the U.S. Marshals Service, is brought in to assist. Complications arise and Lucas turns to Virgil for some additional help. It's such a rich stew, tasty and complicated and so well paced. Sandford could easily end up coasting by this time (after 3o Prey books, who'd blame him?), but in this reader's opinion, has written a corker that delivers big on entertainment and interesting characters. This novel was published in April 2021 and is considered the most recent in both series (Prey and Virgil Flowers). It even offers a nod to to the Covid-19 virus, firmly anchoring it in time. I've not read every installment in the Prey series, but have read enough to know one of the better ones when I see it.

I love when Virgil and Lucas get together I also liked how each character was used and got a piece of the action, even if Lucas is in more of a mentor role. He hasn't lost his touch at all when he's needed to dive into action. It's crazy that throughout the Prey series Sandford hasn't been unapologetic about killing off some of our favorite side characters. But then the characters don't shake it off so quickly, the grieving is very real life, so I'm wondering how Lucas will be recovering in the next book now. The side characters are always like little treats as we go along. I've been a big fan of Bob and Rae since they joined the cast back in Masked Prey... Bob tries to be funny and Rae is straight up bad ass I love that the snarky, irreverent cop banter is back. The men even admit that they try, but they're not that funny. It's funny in its own way though. The action is good and the plot is interesting too. How did we get from a suspicious boat and murdered coast guards to.... Well, where the plot ended? My favorite part was the obviously ex-mafia old guy swinging his cane at the stupid bird 😂 Overall, we might be 31 books in but the series seems to be recovering from its little lull. My favorites were the BCA era and to me it took a bit of a hit when he joined the Marshals, although they were pretty badass in Ocean Prey again. It's always a good time when everyone gets together. I'm excited to catch up on the new books now

Ocean Prey is the 31st entry in John Sandford's long running Lucas Davenport series. I've enjoyed each and every one and this series has only gotten better as it progresses. Now you might notice that Virgil Flowers is listed on the cover as well - this will be his 13th novel. There's always a cameo appearance by that f*****g Flowers in a Davenport book, but this time around, he has a pivotal role in the plot. I knew I was going to love Ocean Prey! Three Coast Guardsman are killed as they try to apprehend a boat full of drug smugglers - and their product. The FBI's investigation has stalled and they need help (not that they'll admit that) Who to call? Uh huh - Lucas Davenport who is attached to the US Marshall's office, but really only reports to politicos. He and Bob, another Marshall make progress but need another player - an undercover agent - or two. Who better to play a perpetually stoned, scuba diving, small time criminal who's a bit witless? Yup, Virgil flowers. And Marshall Rae plays his girlfriend. Ocean Prey was nice change of pace from the political hot footing Lucas has been investigating the last few books - a different setting and a fresh crime, rather than building on the previous book. And one that truly takes inspiration from headlines and reality - drug running, organized crime and murder. The dialogue is so snappy, wry and witty - and rings true. There's a dark humor running through much of the conversations and interactions. The action is fast and furious, the plot is intricate and believable and the danger is palpable. Which all adds up to one heckuva page turning read! Sandford's writing is still fresh and engaging, even after so many books. I'm dreading the day he puts down his pen. 'Til then, bring on the next tale!

Lucas Davenport “closed out eighty murders over twenty-five years with the Minneapolis Police Department, the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, and the Marshals Service.” He now is helping to solve a drug smuggling case off the coast of Florida, where three Coast Guardsmen were killed. FBI; DEA; local, municipal and state cops; Coast Guard; US Marshals; drug dealers; smugglers; and, of course, New York/New Jersey Mafia….what could go wrong? After a disastrous event, Lucas calls on his buddy Virgil Flowers to help out with this East Coast crime saga. It’s good to read about them working together again. And, as a bonus, the book is excellent to the last page!

The thirty first adventure in the Lucas Davernport series. Lucas is asked by a Florida politician to look into the murder of a number of Coast Guard officers who came upon a supposed drug run. Lucas is on the case, but while investigating it goes horribly wrong. Lucas must call on an old friend to help bring the perpetrators to justice. Typical fast paced easy read from Mr. Sandford. It was much more of a Davernport novel than a Flowers novel, but both were in it enough to justify calling it a Davernport and Flowers novel. Mr. Sandford did a great job injecting humor into the novel, but that is no surprise. There was one big event that hit home and changed the tone of the novel. I wouldn’t be surprised if Mr. Sandford begins to merge Flowers into Davernport’s work with the US Marshall’s based on how he has Ocean Prey playing out. That would be a little disappointing. Don’t get me wrong, seeing more Lucas and Virgil together is intriguing, but I love the rural Minnesota setting for the Flowers series. Overall another top notch thriller from one of the best in the game. If you like thrillers, especially if you like a little humor mixed in, don’t hesitate to pick up Ocean Prey.

The President’s Daughter is a smart, taut, utterly fantastic roller-coaster that had me holding on for dear life: a combination of every parent’s worst nightmare — a daughter abducted by a terrorist with a scimitar — and the inside world of Washington, DC, (a place where, arguably, the knives are pretty damn sharp, too).

The President’s Daughter is a scintillating, action-packed standalone action-adventure thriller in which there's a new administration in the White House. But it's the previous First Family who tops an international assassin's hit list. Michael Keating was vice president when the president, Martin Lovering, died of an aortic aneurysm while on a fishing trip. This allowed Keating to accede to the Oval Office and become president. A former Navy SEAL, Keating wants vengeance for sadistic Islamic terrorist Asim Al-Asheed’s torture and slaughter of captured SEAL Boyd Tanner and orders an operation to assassinate him inside his compound in the Libyan mountains. Unfortunately, he survives despite the bombs and bullets directed his way, but his wife and 3 daughters are killed. So, of course, the cycle of revenge starts all over again. At the next election, Keating is succeeded by his Vice President Pamela Barnes. He relocates to rural New Hampshire and has almost pushed the ill-fated military mission to the back of his mind when Al-Asheed abducts Keating’s 19-year-old daughter Melanie. She had been hiking on the Huntsman Trail, which heads towards Mount Rollins, in New Hampshire and the trooper who attended the scene found her ID in a knapsack next to the body of a young man who had been shot to death. Al-Asheed requests three conditions to be met to ensure her safe return: the release of 3 inmates being held in the super-max prison in Florence, Colorado. A ransom in the amount of $100 million in bitcoin to be paid within the next thirty-six hours and a full pardon from President Pamela Barnes for any crimes he may or may not have committed against Americans in the United States or abroad. But Barnes has never been fond of Keating and Mel's mother, Samantha, doesn't trust her to get her daughter back so Keating must liaise with Danny Cohen of Mossad, Major General Ahmad Bin Nayef of Saudi Arabia's General Intelligence Directorate and the New Hampshire State Police. Officer Corinne Bradford of NH Police is the one to locate where Asim is staying and soon a huge effort is mounted to try and capture him and reunite Mel with her family. This is a compulsive, engrossing and thoroughly entertaining thriller packed with non-stop action, wild twists and turns and more intense and nail-biting drama than you can shake a stick at. It's propulsive and riveting from the very first page as the co-authors drop you right into the middle of the excitement. You need to be able to suspend your disbelief to some extent as some of the plot is a little too serendipitous, but most people know that about Patterson's books, however, Clinton does add some authenticity to it all regarding terrorist and army operations, which I thoroughly appreciated. It's a fun and absorbing read, and I love that these thrillers can be enjoyed by anyone as they provide all the necessary thrills but aren't demanding in terms of brainpower.

Let’s start this off with my upfront James Patterson disclosure. I read most of his books and have for several years. Some might ask why and that’s its own discussion best saved for another day. I have really enjoyed some, liked some, and didn’t really care for others. In this outing Patterson has teamed up for a second time with former president, Bill Clinton, to write a novel about none other than a President facing the ultimate terrorist attack on own his own family. Former President’s Clinton’s knowledge and experience helps provides us with a personal inside look at how the government works, experiencing first-hand the pressures of being president, and how the political and military bureaucracy serves its purposes. “The President’s Daughter” is the story of Matthew Keating, a one-time Navy SEAL and one-time president, and his family – college professor and researcher wife, Samantha. and teenage daughter, Melanie. Matt is trying to spend his post-presidency transition time at his retreat, a house on Lake Marie, New Hampshire, while his wife goes back to work and his daughter prepares for college. Matt has defended his country, both as a soldier and a political leader making tough choices, and now one of those decisions comes back to haunt him in the worst way possible. A Libyan terrorist has waited patiently for years to seek revenge on Matt for the death of his wife and three daughters. That terrorist, Asim Al-Asheed, has used his worldwide network to plan and execute an unbelievable mission – the abduction of the ex-President’s daughter. Melanie’s kidnapping quickly becomes a matter of national security as well as a personal attack on Matt, his family, and his emotional state. Al-Asheed has assumed that Matt can be broken. However, he’s in for a surprise, because Matt will use all of his experience and skills to organize his own special operations mission to rescue his daughter or die trying. I think it’s important not say anything more about this book in order to let the reader enjoy and savor every twist and turn that takes place in this fast-paced thriller. Enough has been said. Now I am going to give a review on a Patterson novel like I have never done before. I loved this book. Seriously. I really enjoyed the Sam hell out of it. I am not sure that I can say that about most of them, and none of them to this level. Ever! This is hands down my favorite Patterson novel. Better than his series books, including Alex Cross’s debut “Along Came a Spider”. Yes, I realize that was an emotional and powerful novel that jump-started Patterson’s glorious career as a world-wide bestselling author. I am not sure what others will think, but for me personally, I think this is his best novel, and here are the reasons why. This is a thriller. An excellent one that is very well plotted, perfect pacing, and just the perfect interjection of twists and turns throughout a high-powered and emotional thrill ride. It is rare that Patterson can actually pull on my heartstrings, but he did with this one. Even when I figured out one of the big surprises in advance, it never took away from the tension and drama I felt while reading it. The structure of the story is laid out so well and the writing smooth, fast-paced, and intense. It really played to Patterson’s strengths as a writer and how he likes to tell the story. This time the onion was peeled in many layers that connected key characters, struggles, and climactic moments. There were multiple plotlines and arcs, and keeping each one going at the same time was no easy achievement, but Patterson delivered. He’s said in his interviews that he is an outliner, and he must have outlined the heck out of this one because by the time he was finished, it all came together. The characters were real and authentic. They had depth and were human, not clichéd or stereotypical. They had strengths, weaknesses, and more importantly, flaws like real people. For me, they just came across as real people that I was interested in and drawn to. For me personally, I have often read many Patterson novels that start off well in the first hundred pages or so, with strong villains that seem impossible to catch or mysteries that are challenging to solve. However, most of them peter out in the last half and either end with a weak showdown or some silly turn of events that causes the bad guy to get caught. That is not the case with this novel. For me, it not only maintained its momentum, it increased it throughout the entire book. I never once lost interest. It kept my focus and attention from the first to the very last page. The climactic ending lived up to the build-up of the tension, conflict, and storylines. I cannot say how much Clinton’s influence played a role in the creative process, but it certainly feels like it did, and this is a stronger book for it. I came away feeling like Clinton’s influence really helped with the details and feel of being the leader of the country, being in the White House, dealing with the Cabinet members, and other leaders around the world. Clinton’s role and influence has turned out to be much more than just a promotional use of his name to sell the book. I personally felt like he was directly involved with the outlining, writing, and editing of the book. And to be honest, I am rather impressed with the outcome of his participation. Overall, it’s as simple as this. I really enjoy Patterson’s Alex Cross series. I mostly like his Michael Bennett, the Women’s Murder Club, and Private series too. But I LOVED this book. It is now my favorite that I have read of his. It may or may not be one of your favorites of his books. But for me, it is. It was that good. Nothing more need to be said. End of review. The sound of a mike drop…

Due to flight schedules that got rearranged in our post-pandemic world, I was able to read this fast paced thriller in one day while traveling for over 13 hours. I really liked the first book by President Clinton and James Patterson, The President is Missing. This second book by both of them has many twists and turns that create a true page-turner. The President's daughter, Mel, is kidnapped and she is resourceful and remembers lessons that have been taught to her about what to do in the rare event of a kidnapping. Highly recommend!

After a devastating attack by American Special Forces on a terrorist hideout, the terrorist’s wife and daughters are left dead. The American President Matt Keating takes responsibility for the women’s death, which paints a target on him and his family by a vengeful father. Two years later, no longer in the White House, Matt’s daughter, Melanie, is kidnapped by the terrorist and hampered by a hostile government, Matt must look to his own to try to find and rescue his own daughter. This story is so exciting and the insight that the former president brings to story creates a realistic tale that could happen. The twists and surprises continue to the very last page.

This may be 600 pages long, but I challenge you to put the book aside before finishing it!! It is absolutely a page turner! It's been a while since I've read James Patterson, and I had forgotten just what a wonderful story teller he is! He grabs you on the first page and unfolds his story piece by piece, never interrupting himself with useless information nor fillers, nor wasting your time having to slog through whatever the literary fad of the day is. This reminds me of his early books (the Alex Cross series). Absolutely outstanding!

Action-packed, thrilling, and twisty! The President’s Daughter is a propulsive, entertaining thriller that takes you into the life of former US President and ex-Navy Seal Matt Keating as he does everything in his power to find and recover his kidnapped teenage daughter from a sadistic terrorist driven by vengeance. The writing is tight and crisp. The characters are astute, tenacious, and authentic. And the plot, with its short, intense chapters, keeps you on the edge of your seat as it immerses you, page after page, into a world full of terrorism, politics, revenge, corruption, coercion, military operations, and Secret Service drama. Overall, The President’s Daughter is a meticulous, compelling, intricate mystery by this dynamic writing duo that I thoroughly enjoyed and highly recommend. Thank you to Penguin Random House UK – Arrow Publishing for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review

I don’t think I had ever read a James Patterson book before I breezed through The President Is Missing, which I found enjoyable but not life changing. And honestly, the only reason I even gave that book a passing glance was the fact that my main man’s name was plastered across the cover. Bill Clinton is just…he’s perfect. I love him, and there’s nothing you can say to change my mind so don’t bother. So naturally, I was pleased as punch to find that he co-wrote another political thriller, and I picked it up with the expectation of it being a decent read. This. Book. Was. So. Good. The plot really was a thrilling roller coaster ride - much more so than TPIM. The characters were compelling, and the ending was so satisfying. My heart ached for former POTUS Matt Keating, whose daughter Mel is abducted by a notoriously brutal, murderous terrorist. I couldn’t help but root for him, hoping he would go rogue. I read another review, which said “With this brave and monogamous hero, Clinton has once again revealed such a naked fantasy version of himself that you almost feel embarrassed by the man.” Meh. Whatever. I have plenty of fantasy versions of Bill Clinton bouncing around in my head, and I’m not even remotely mad about adding one more to the rotation. This novel was fast paced, exciting, and well written. Clinton and Patterson have found a formula that works. I’m sure they’re raking in the dough, and honestly? I’m here for it. Good for them. God bless America.

The president’s daughter by James Patterson and bill Clinton was a good book . I really enjoyed the characters. He provides non stop entertainment. A must read for anyone who likes thrillers

Surely there will be a screenplay. Granted, there can be a huge gap between the way a book reads as opposed to the audio version. It's possible the written version may fall flat, however I listened to the audio and it was exciting. Just begging to be filmed. Intrigue, action, drama...my only small complaint was the overdone description of military equipment.

Following THE PRESIDENT IS MISSING, their 2018 bestseller, THE PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER is another impressive collaboration for Bill Clinton and James Patterson, thanks to the former's firsthand knowledge of the inner workings of the presidency and the latter's ability to write action-packed scenes that make readers feel like they are right there. Matthew Keating, a former US Navy SEAL and ex-President of the United States, has comfortably settled into retirement at his home on Lake Marie in New Hampshire. His wife Samantha, a professor of archaeology at Boston University, is away on a dig in Maine with her grad students. Their 19-year-old daughter, Melanie, is home on summer break from Dartmouth. As a former POTUS, his longtime agent in charge of Secret Service detail, David Stahl, is housed in separate quarters with other Secret Service agents. Matt bids farewell to his daughter, who goes off on an overnight hike up Mount Rollins with her friend, Tim. Mel is no longer eligible for Secret Service protection once her father left office. The cutoff age for children of former presidents is mandated at 16, but her parents agree that she seems more relaxed since the cadre of armed protectors left her side. David, however, has overseen her safety since she was 13. Still concerned about her well-being, he grills her about her hiking plans as she and Tim take off. It isn't too long before Matt's iPhone lights up with the familiar blocked NSC number. It’s Sarah Palumbo, his deputy CIA director who was demoted when President Pamela Barnes (his vice president) took office. While she was sitting in for the director at that day’s threat assessment meeting, she noted the uptick in chatter from various terrorist cells in the Middle East. They hinted at something bad on the horizon that would generate a lot of attention. She doesn't have any specific information when it comes to dates, but numerous phrases express a desire for revenge and calls for loyal jihadists everywhere to rise up. “Mr. President, they’re coming after you,” Sarah says. She reminds Matt of how long it would take for warrants and paperwork to make their way through the bureaucratic pipeline. He cautions her that going outside channels could get her in a lot of trouble, but she responds, “I didn’t like the way you were treated when the vice president took you on. That campaign…it made me sick to my stomach. And I wasn’t going to sit on this information without warning you.” Matt finds David hovered over his laptop, briefs him quickly and says, “I want you to get word out to your Portland office or the Maine State Police. Get coverage on my wife.... [S]ee if they can quickly get her someplace safe until we find out just what the hell is going on.... Then I want you to fire up the Suburban. You and I are going to go get Mel. Maybe take along another agent and as much firepower as we can carry.” David finally talks Matt down, reminding him that they no longer have armored vehicles or any authority to summon an army of agents and helicopters. The level of protection they enjoyed at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue no longer exists. News that Mel is missing breaks when Tim’s body is found. Matt and Sam go immediately to the White House to meet with President Barnes. It is in the Oval Office where they watch on Al Jazeera a cut to Asim Al-Asheed. It depicts a terrified Mel, holding that day’s copy of USA Today. Al-Asheed states his price for her freedom by noon the next day: the release of three named terrorists, $100 million in bitcoin, and a complete pardon by the president for any crimes Al-Asheed has committed anywhere in the world. It is the last that her parents will see of Mel until her terrified face appears again on global television, with Al-Asheed holding a sabre to her throat. He has borne a vendetta against Matt since a planned attack on his jihadist group went bad while Matt was still in office, killing members of his family. He has chosen this opportunity to reap vengeance directly toward the former president. Mel stares into the camera and says, “Don’t look, Mom.” This is just the beginning. Fasten your seat belts and get ready for a rollercoaster ride of a read as Matt decides to go after Al-Asheed with his faithful aide and volunteer brother SEALs by his side. He is determined to bring his daughter back, dead or alive. Reviewed by Roz Shea

What a beauty this is, as it brings together a perfect pairing for this type of thriller. The story centres around former US President and ex-Navy Seal Matt Keating. A powerful man is hell-bent on payback from a time that Matt was in office. Matt still has the privilege of 24-hour protection. His daughter, after becoming an adult does not. Not that Mel ever wanted protection in the first place. Mel is a fabulous character who wants to lead her own life out of the limelight of the press. Unfortunately, this has made her an easy target for someone seeking revenge against her dad. Mel had played out in her mind many scenarios, but not the one she was now in. Within minutes she knows just how deadly her abductors were. With Matt’s successor as President making the whole thing a publicity boost for her popularity ratings, rather than getting his daughter back, it isn’t long before Matt is calling in old favours from his time as President and a former Navy seal. It is to become an elite unit of experience, tac-ticks and adrenaline. Mind games twist the story, with emotions that hit rock bottom and highs that give you that punch in the air feeling. The insight into the workings of politics has a natural feel to it as Bill Clinton’s experience gives the story authenticity and James Patterson nose for a gripping plot, perfection. There isn’t a dull moment with characters that didn’t need to grow on me, it was instant. I enjoyed the side-line stories that linked the characters, with double-crosses, slights of hand and at times shocking and brutal vengeance. A brilliant Book.

I honestly didn't think I was going to like the "political thriller" genre....but then a couple of years ago The President is Missing by Clinton/Patterson genuinely surprised me with how good it was, then I enjoyed Stacey Abrams new 2021 political thriller, so when I saw that Clinton and Patterson were teaming up again, this quickly became one of my most anticipated reads of the year. And quite frankly, I was not disappointed at all! It was thrilling...I didn't want to turn it off at all. I did it as an audiobook, and the first hour was a little shaky; they had to lay a good chunk of background knowledge to set up the plot, and then, because it's written by Bill Clinton, it wades a little too deep into the weeds of politics and gets kinda stuck on the specifics every now and then. But. The thriller aspect is quite heart wrenching and I kept wanting to get to the end to find out what was going to happen. Every chapter ended on a ??? note. I particularly loved the end of this book. I hope they write another one!! I'm giving it 5 stars, it was probably more of a 4-4.25 writing quality, but 5 on entertainment value!!

Riveting Nail-Biter! Unexpected twists and turns. When you awake at 5 AM thinking about the book you are reading and have to get up to finish it, then it's a best seller. I can't help but think this must have been incredibly difficult for President Clinton to write. So much of the content seems so personal. So many details were included about SEAL operations, Secret Service missions and weapons. Things the general public take for granted. There are scenarios that you don't see coming which lead you to wonder how the book will end. Captivating!

What a great book! This would make a great movie; packed full of action and suspense. As a huge James Patterson fan, he does not disappoint. I was invested in the characters and felt compelled to read more. Never a chapter where I felt bored or disinterested. Each chapter lead into another and created a vivid picture I could easily follow. I was so excited to read what was next, I had to remind myself to slow down to take in each detail as it played an important role to concluding events. Very well written, highly recommended! ❤

Honestly, I wasn't initially excited about the book based on one of the co-authors, or contributing authors. However, I decided I was going to give it a fair shot, and I am glad I did! This was a book that I found myself struggling to put down. The plot was just really well-developed, and was just a great read. It is not a book that pauses you to think deeply about matters, but for me this was the type of book I needed - something to break away from the cares and concerns of work.

the easiest five star i’ve ever given. “i’d like to look back on my life and remember every single thing. but if I don’t, I hope I remember that it was a love story. And that the love story was about you.”

(I work for the publisher.) I read the entire manuscript in two days because I couldn’t put it down. Abby is simply wonderful, and this new novel is another perfect reason as to why we all adore her here at Hachette. I can’t wait for y’all to read it! (In the meantime, make sure to pick up her new book, Just for the Summer!)

6 starsssss!!!! if you’re a very sentimental person or thinks actively about remembering …. this is gonna do a NUMBER on you… like it did on me. no notes

A UFO escape room, organic mustard, a VILF and ‘Come on, Eileen’… what more could you want from a romance story 🫶🏼 5 stars for Abby Jimenez. Every time I think she can’t outdo her last book she goes and creates something that equally pulls on my heart strings and makes me giggle so loud. (Thank you NetGalley and little brown book group for the advance copy to read ahead of this book release!)

Audible : 🎧 9 hours 59 minutes at 1x speed 6 hours 40 minutes at 1.5x speed 5 hours at 2x speed which I was able to easily listen to. Described as an “emotional contemporary romance” rather than as a ROM COM, the latest offering from Abby Jimenez IS a bit different from past books. So what does that mean? The author has always written Rom Coms that included a serious topic as well as witty banter and plenty of spice, with characters who are under the age of 30. But, this time, the serious topics share equal time with the romance, and while the witty banter still exists, the spice takes a back seat. Fortunately, as a reader who is outside of the demographic that is her usual target audience-it still worked for me, as I just LOVE her characters and writing. So, what’s this one about? Xavier Rush is a gorgeous, but grumpy veterinarian. And, Samantha is all sunshine when she brings a kitten she found to his Minneapolis practice-that is until he informs her that her kitten will need a serious and VERY EXPENSIVE operation to survive, and he recommends euthanasia instead. Although he means well-that is UNACCEPTABLE. Samantha will find the money for the surgery and she returns to his practice just to show him her healthy, happy kitten, Pooter -but instead of finding an arrogant DR, she discovers one who is quite contrite. He asks her to dinner, and she accepts-because why not? She is moving to California the next day, to become a caretaker for her Mom who has advanced dementia. So what happens after you go on the BEST first date of your life, with a person who could very well be “THE ONE” when a future seems impossible? What follows is a love story that prevails despite the very messy obstacles of two very real, very challenging, adult lives. I paired my reading with the FABULOUS Audible version of this story-but found myself wanting to LISTEN because of the unique production. The Audible has two narrators and the story alternates between the POV’s of both Samantha and Xavier, BUT ALL of the conversations between the characters, no matter which POV you were listening to, were voiced by BOTH narrators! In other words, whenever Samantha spoke it was in narrator Christine Laken’s voice and whenever Xavier spoke, it was in the voice of narrator Matt Lantor, no matter which POV you were listening to-and I loved that the conversations were both narrators speaking to each other no matter which POV the chapter featured! With her trademark witty banter, a kitten, and a dog named “Jake, from State Farm”- Abby Jimenez has penned another winner for me❣️ AVAILABLE NOW Thank You to the Chandler Public Library for the loan of both formats! ❤️ As always, these are my candid thoughts!

Speechless. Beautiful and heartbreaking all in one.

I mean who expected less than 5 stars 😂

5 stars “There is nothing more beautiful than being a witness to someone’s life. To know them inside and out and to be with them through everything, share the same memories. Memories are everything.” Abby Jimenez continues to blow me away with her books. This book's writing, prose, characters, and everything else were perfect. I’ve read many books this year and this is the first one that I would consider the top read of the year so far. I know it’s early, but it has so much potential to be my favorite book of 2025. Xavier Rush is a grumpy vet and Samantha and the adorable cat she found is a patient. What a meet-cute. I mean, honesty just the cat was enough for me to be sucked into this story. It’s safe to say they don’t hit it off at first, but they both make a major impression on the other. I loved Xavier and Samantha’s first date. It was memorable. Impossible to forget. And turns into something long-distance neither of them expected. I adored Samantha, and honestly, Xavier was perfect. I could not have loved him more. I rooted for them to be able to truly be together, but I couldn’t imagine how this would work with all on both of their plates. This paragraph will only have some minor spoilers for a plot point that isn’t in the blurb, but I need to mention it because, honestly, it was so well done. If you’ve ever taken care of someone or loved someone with advanced dementia, this book depicts it perfectly. I have worked most of my 18-year career as a nurse in some kind of memory care/dementia unit, and so many of the things Samantha’s mother and family went through are spot on with what real-life dementia cases look like. I thought it was amazing that this family was able to work it out to keep her home, but as you can see if you’ve read the book, it’s not always an option. It was such an important part of the book and handled with such care. Say You’ll Remember Me was a romance I fell in love with straight away. It was heartfelt, moving, and had Jimenez’s signature humor. I love a book that will make me feel/cry one minute, then laugh out loud the next. It was real, raw, and completely unforgettable. I can’t recommend this enough. Love is the brightest color in a gray world.

⭐️5⭐️ Say You’ll Remember Me Plot: Xavier Rush is a charming vet with a heart of gold, seems perfect that’s until his words reveal he's not quite the flawless guy Samantha imagined. After a wild night together, Samantha pushes him away due to her family’s crisis, only to realise that their connection is too strong to forget, and now she’s determined to make something lasting out of it. My Thoughts: FAVOURITE READ OF 2024! I am so honoured to have had the opportunity to have read this before so many other people. Not to boast. But this was an absolute treat. Every single page was perfection. I enjoyed reading every single sentence. I continued to think about the plot of the book even when I took a break between chapters. I could have honestly read the whole thing in one day. The chemistry between Xavier and Sam was so sweet and realistic. The plot felt real and not cheesy at all. The addition of other issues and themes in the book was perfectly balanced with the romance in the book. I’m obsessed with Abby’s books and I can’t wait to read more of her other books in 2025. Do NOT go without reading this!

I loved this book so much—the way that it tied Hank in towards the end 😭♥️ so so so good

“Love is the brightest color in a gray world.” The moment I picked this book up from my local library, I couldn’t put it down. I think that is what I love about this author most. She knows how to keep her readers engaged because she has a way of creating characters you want to know, connect to, and hope for. And, in this case, this is exactly what happened for me with this book. My review… When he walks in the room, she is sitting there with a kitten comfortably tucked within the midst of her breasts. As a Veterinarian doctor, that could make sense to him. But that still is one heck of a first impression for Dr. Xavier Rush of Samantha. And, when she returns later, he can’t help but ask her on a date. This first impression for Xavier of Samantha leads to the best date of his life, and one of the longest ever, too. “The best moments don't have to be big to be forever.” But did it have to be the last, realizing that she was moving from Minnesota to California? Readers soon learn that Samantha has promised to take care of her mother, because her family can’t do it alone. Her mother is sinking into the worst form of dementia. “I would be a witness to her life, even though she was done witnessing mine.” How will Xavier and Samantha manage after the most epic date experience ever? She says forget her. He says, he can’t. Can they navigate the challenges of a long-distance relationship? As is typical with any Jimenez story, she takes a difficult emotional issue and melds it together with relatable characters who are forced to face it. In this meet-cute, her characters and drama faced feel real enough, that readers will want to root for this couple to find a way to heal past hurts and manage the difficulties towards their own HEA. At times, dealing with the tension of the long-distance relationship, the family focus on the mother’s dementia care (could it have been handled better?) and, Xavier’s past history, felt like it would never end. But the sweetness of their journey and wanting to know what would eventually happen for the two, made this a truly worthwhile binge read. 4.5 stars

shocker! an Abby Jimenez book gets 5 stars from me! signed up for a funny-haha romcom and got a devastatingly painful, heartbreaking love story rooted in the importance of memories & quality time 😭 thank you abby! I was in pain! the whole time!! however, I can confidently say no contemporary man is ever doing it like Xavier. I was down BAD. BAD BAD BAD. a SEXY VETERINARIAN WITH DADDY ISSUES?? his narrative was arguably as heart wrenching as Samantha’s and such an effective narrative on the ripple effects of child abuse and neglect. bury me with these characters.

5 ⭐ 🩵“There is nothing more beautiful than being a witness to someone’s life. To know them inside and out and be with them through everything, share the same memories. Memories are everything. I want that.”🩵 I'm going to start the review by saying that this is my first Abby Jimenez book and I didn't expect to suffer so much with it, but I did 😭 My God, I can't believe how much these characters have left their mark on me. I feel like I've known them all my life, and I think that's a good sign that a book is 5 stars. It's true that I felt the ending was a bit rushed, and maybe there were some scenes that seemed quite similar, but the story is so good, the characters are so good, that I couldn't not give it 5 stars. I'm dying to read more from Abby and also to continue this series... I wonder who the next book will be about, since they don't leave any clues at the end of this one (I hope it's one of her brothers, or that she makes a trilogy and the next two books are about her brothers).

4.75 ⭐️ The perfect book to make you swoon and break your heart “I'd like to look back on my life and remember every single thing. But if I don't, I hope I remember that it was a love story. And that the love story was about you.” WHAT TO EXPECT: ✨ contemporary romance ✨ veterinarian x social media manager ✨ opposites attract ✨ meet-cute (gone wrong) ✨ instant connection ✨ they both fall fast and hard ✨ right person, wrong time ✨ long distance ✨ mutual pining ✨ fun, playful banter ✨ soulmates ✨ 1.5/5 spice 🌶️ ✨ "Would you love me if I was a worm?" ✨ cinnamon roll MMC ✨ cute animals ✨ complicated family dynamics (both MCs) ✨ mental health rep ✨ dual POV ✨ HEA ✨ TW: early onset dementia (parent), hardships of being a caretaker, infidelity (side character), death of loved one, grief, mentions of physical and emotional child abuse (past), mentions of animal cruelty My Thoughts: Audiobook rating: 5 ⭐️ Perfection. No Notes! Story rating: 4.5 ⭐️ LOVED it! Call me a masochist because I'm a sucker for pain. 😂 I'm realizing based on my most recent 5-star reads (Say You'll Remember Me by Abby Jimenez and Great Big Beautiful Life by Emily Henry), that my favorite romances are those with a side plot or conflict that'll split my heart in two and stomp on it. I just really like getting seriously emotionally invested in a story and crying over fictional characters, okay?? I ADORED the romance between Samantha and Xavier. Their connection was instantaneous, their chemistry was off the charts, and their banter was delightfully witty and playful. Every time they were together on page, I was kicking my feet and squealing with delight. And when they were separated, my heart ached for them to be reunited. They were so clearly each other's favorite person in the whole world, so watching them struggle with being apart and pining for each other hurt me. But also, I loved it because they are the embodiment of true love. The definition of soulmates. Their love is truly why I read romance, so thank you Abby Jimenez for giving us the chance to watch Samantha and Xavier fall in love and prove that "if he wanted to, he would." The side plot about Samantha’s mom having early onset dementia was devastating. I’m honestly tearing up just writing this. I’ve never personally experienced this with someone close to me, but my mom has, and so has one of my closest friends, and just hearing what it’s like for them, especially being a caretaker, gave me a glimpse into how mentally, physically, and emotionally exhausting it really is. Abby Jimenez did such an incredible job capturing that. It felt so real, and it added so much depth to the story. Watching Samantha move back home to help take care of her mom hit especially hard. It wasn’t just about caretaking. It was about returning to a full house, falling back into old family dynamics, and trying to navigate all of that while also losing pieces of her mom. Her whole family struggled to figure out a routine that worked for everyone, trying to live their own lives while still showing up for her mom in the way she wanted and deserved. And that’s what made it so heartbreaking. It showed how hard it is to find balance, especially when everyone’s stretched so thin. Caregivers often end up putting their own mental, emotional, and physical health last because they’re so focused on the person they’re caring for. It’s draining. And seeing that play out on the page just gutted me. But it also made me realize even more how much those in my own life dealing with this similar situation have struggled. I felt terrible for Samantha during all of this, but also for Xavier. Long-distance relationships are hard enough, but adding the weight of caretaking on one side? Absolutely heartbreaking. He wanted so badly to be there for Samantha to lighten the load and to just show up, but there were limits to what he could do from afar. His love and support never wavered, but you could feel his frustration and helplessness. And for Samantha, carrying all that emotional weight without him there made everything feel even more overwhelming. The distance didn’t lessen their love, but it definitely made the situation feel more desperate and isolating for both of them. 😭 I truly appreciated how Abby Jimenez wove the romance and caregiver storylines together. It all felt so raw and real. Like two threads of the same story instead of separate plot lines. It really shows what you’re willing to sacrifice for the people you truly love. Samantha would move across the country, put her own life and relationship on hold, and pour everything into caring for her mom. And Xavier would work himself to the bone just to afford time with Samantha, and give up any free moment just to hear her voice. They were both constantly choosing love - sometimes in quiet, exhausting ways. And what stood out most to me was how Xavier never asked Samantha to choose between him and her mom. He knew she couldn’t. So instead, he found ways to show up for her, even when it meant sacrificing something himself. It made the whole love story feel authentic and true. The only complaint I have were the mentions of Rhysand from ACOTAR. This occurred a total of four times towards the beginning of the story. Three times by chapter three (which was insane) and one more time in chapter twelve, but never again afterwards. It almost seemed like it was something Abby Jimenez may have added in during a draft just as a placeholder but then the editors forgot to remove it. It was so random and gave me the ick. If they had been taken out, I probably would have given this a perfect 5-stars. But regardless, Say You'll Remember Me was seriously fantastic. It was a beautiful and emotional story that will stick with me for a long time. I highly recommend reading it or listening to the audiobook! PS: Christine Lakin and Matt Lanter were INCREDIBLE narrators! They sounded so good together and made the whole listening experience absolutely amazing. Their voices brought the characters to life and made it easy to get completely lost in the story. I honestly couldn’t have asked for a better duo to tell Samantha and Xavier’s journey. Favorite Quotes: Love is the brightest color in a grey world. _______ They say that you won't remember what someone said, but you'll always remember how they made you feel. _______ The best moments don't have to be big to be forever. _______ But I already knew when my life flashed before my eyes, the best parts of it were going to be about her. _______ "If you were my wife, you would be my world. Everything starts with you and ends with you. Anything else is just the stuff that happens in the middle.” _______ “Life wouldn’t be worth living if I didn’t remember you.” _______ Her heart remembered even though her brain had forgotten. She didn’t know who I was or who he was, but she still knew what love was. _______

Despite my best intentions to slowly enjoy this book, I devoured it in one huge gulp. Oh well, it just means I have to wait longer for my next Gamache novel. Penny's worldbuilding and characterization is phenomenal as always. The mystery is intricate and nuanced and kept me invested throughout, even though I did figure some of it out before it was revealed. This series is so interwoven that readers must read them in order. This particular book has ties to some earlier ones in the series. This novel explores misogyny, nature vs. nurture, art history, and the long lasting effects of abuse. Penny has a way of taking fascinating historical facts and making them a part of the story, so that readers don't necessarily know they are learning something profound until one thinks things through in the end. And above all, this is a tale of family, friendship, and community. It's about finding the humanity in others and revealing yourself to them in return. Isn't that what most of us want in the end? I listened to the audiobook, and it goes without saying that the narration is superb, but I will say it anyway. Now for the long wait yet again...

I have enjoyed all the books in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache mystery series by Louise Penny from the onset of their publications. Who would have ever thought that each new installment was capable of getting better and better? A World of Curiosities #18, was in my opinion, Louise Penny’s, best one to date! It was fast paced and kept me at the edge of my seat with all the twists and turns. All the charming and beloved characters were back together in Three Pines. A World of Curiosity was a little darker and definitely more sinister than most of Louise Penny’s prior books. That only added to the enhancement, though, of this well plotted mystery series. I listened to the audiobook of A World of Curiosities that was very well narrated by Robert Bathurst. His narration totally immersed me in the story and managed to put me right among the characters in the quaint village of Three Pines. A World of Curiosities was able to combine several mysteries within its pages that seamlessly wove together by the conclusion. Some stemmed from the past and some were from the present. Recollections of Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and Jean-Guy Beauvoir’s first case they worked on and solved together brought memories of young and abused Fiona and Sam back. That case involved identifying a dead woman. The woman was discovered to be Clothilde Arenault, Fiona’s and Sam’s mother. She had been an addict. That was not her worst crime, though. She had unimaginably profited from making both of her children participate in sexual acts. It was later revealed, that Fiona had viciously murdered her own mother. Fiona was prosecuted as an adult and had served time in prison for the murder. Armand was never fully convinced that Fiona had committed the murder. His suspicions were on Sam but Fiona had confessed and Sam was only ten years old at the time. Armand visited Fiona while she was serving her sentence and was instrumental in helping her obtain a degree in engineering. Fiona now lived with Armand and his wife in Three Pines. To Armand’s surprise and terror, Sam showed up at Fiona’s graduation ceremony. Armand felt that Sam’s presence in Three Pines signaled fear, anger and extreme caution. Why had Sam suddenly appeared after all these years? Armand knew Sam’s presence could only represent danger. When a letter that was written 160 years ago was delivered to Three Pines, curiosity and surprise was felt by all. It had been written by a stone mason that had been commissioned to brick up an attic room all those years ago. When the residents realized which house and attic the letter was referring to they unanimously decided to take down the brick wall. What they discovered set off an explosion of intense questions, fears, dangers, triggers, puzzles and hidden messages. There was a reproduction of the painting of A World of Curiosities on the wall. In the reproduction of the paintings, there were hidden clues for the viewers. Modern elements had been added to the painting. Some of the things Armand saw sent chills down his spine. Armand was terrified that the misogynist who Armand had helped put behind bars all those years ago for killing seven women engineers was playing with his mind. How could that be, though? He was safely behind bars for life? Wasn’t he? A World of Curiosities by Louise Penny was my most favorite book by her so far. I enjoyed every twist that was thrown in. Several times I thought I had everything all figured out only to find that I was completely wrong. I love this series and can’t wait for the next one to be published. Without any hesitation, I highly recommend this book.

Outstanding, one of my favorite Gamache novels ever.

There's not much point in reviewing this. If you haven't read and enjoyed the previous 17 in the series, you're not likely to start with this one. And if you have enjoyed the others, you're going to read this one, regardless of what I say. So I'll just leave you with this spoiler: if you've loved the others, THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST IN THE SERIES.

I might have screamed a little when I got my hands on this ARC. I refused to read it quickly though I really wanted to. It was so worth the savor. I love all things about Louise Penny’s writing. The nuggets of truth hidden among poetry that allows you to reflect and remember; the delightfully twisting and turning storyline with imperfect people; the most perfect village in the world that we all want to return home to- I most very much enjoyed this latest book. It was worth the slow read and had all my most favorite things. I’m very much looking forward to sharing this with friends. Love love loved it.

Lucky me, A 7 day “skip the line” selection from Libby. I had The Black Wolf as a ‘notify me’ quite a few months ago. I just happened to be in Libby at the right time, they get chosen quite quickly. I just do not have words. LP has the most unique writing style of any authors I have read and she does it again keeping me on the edge of my seat for the last three chapters, well no, for the whole book. Three Pines is a haven for Gamache and his whole crew to return to the comforts and safety of the village and LP does that time and time again throughout the book. In fact, she settles us all in this work of fiction. “When needs must……the devil drives.” “Wolves know no boundaries, respect no borders.” And then, I found this phrase, “Armand stopped just inside the door and exhaled a breath he didn’t know he’d been holding.”

I think Louise Penny has outdone herself in writing this book. It describes how what everyone thinks about happening to the last detail. How does she do it. She takes Chief Inspector Armand Gamache, Jean-Guy Beauvoir, Isabelle Lacoste and all the others and makes them into targets of the invaders. Then she turns around and makes them the good guys without taking anything away from them. It really makes it interesting and intriguing at the same time. She has a way of dining this without cramping her style and making things turn out how they should in Gamache'scircle.

The Black Wolf is the much anticipated next book in the series and Louise Penny has outdone herself. The book is so timely: it reflects what is happening today . Its eye opening, scary and yet comforting to be back in Three Pines with Armand and the rest of the group. The tension can be felt on almost every page and once you start reading you will not be able to stop. I hated the book to end. The Black Wolf will stay with me for a very long time.

This book was excellent—and terrifying. There’s a reason I don’t read geopolitical thrillers: they would stress me out too much to be enjoyable. (I do read books of non-fiction; they just tend to not be about current events. I read the news, and that’s enough.) The plot that is pivotal to The Black Wolf is certainly plausible—just as the one that formed the basis of Louise Penny’s previous book, The Grey Wolf was—and, again, terrifying. Several of the more recent books in this wonderful series have made me squirm because of their focus on the world in which we’re living. I do miss the stories in the series that spent a lot of time in the idyllic (well, mostly) village of Three Pines and frequently involved murders whose causes lay deep in layers of the past. (Apparently I’m not the only one who feels this way; Louise Penny addresses this in her acknowledgments—not wanting to tell the same story “over and over”—so I get it. I simply miss spending most of her stories in Three Pines, where I really could live—a bistro, a bookshop, a bakery…what’s not to love?) Back to The Black Wolf. I don’t want to fill this snapshot with spoilers or any specific details about the plot; the book jacket handles that just fine. I’ll just say that I held my breath—a lot—and was not about to go to bed until I’d finished the book, just a few days after starting it. But as terrifying as the storyline is, it cannot begin to be as frightening as the absolute reality of the other issues that the book deals with—the influence of social media as a news source, the ability to manipulate and edit reality to produce false “truths” that too many people readily believe, and the rise and spread of conspiracy theories. There’s a reason that Animal Farm (which Reine-Marie had (surprisingly) never read and keeps calling “Animal House”) and 1984 are mentioned repeatedly. Fortunately, there are glimmers of humor, like one of my favorite characters confusing two very different things—sometimes at especially tense moments—throughout the book. But the book made me tense; I can’t stress that enough. But the last few pages contained moments that made me weepy—and not because they were sad. On the contrary. The moments that brought tears were reminders to focus on the gifts that the natural world offers. And that is the ultimate message—at least for me. Horrible things may be happening in the world and, even as aware we are of many of them, there is so much we don’t know. Yet, against the horror, there is beauty and it is a gift—and that is what we have to remember.

He's a good man.

The Black Wolf. Louise Penny's 20th book in the Three Pines universe. It had been awhile since the release of The Grey Wolf, which set the stage for this one. I must tell you, it was so good to get back to Three Pines. But, like the brilliant writer she is, she doesn't spend all her time in that place. Much of it is spent in Montreal, in the halls of Parliament. Like she has in many situations, Penny has utilized what is going on in the world as a palette for her story. Once one reads this book, one knows immediately to what I'm referring. The usual suspects are here and all play critical parts. The tension, the suspense are so intense, I could not put this one down. I only hope there are more stories of these wonderful people. Three Pines. It has become a place of safety and comfort for me. A Shangri-La, if you will, a safe haven from the woes and discords of the world. A retreat where we can bask in the glow and comfort of friendship and love. A port in a storm. A haven. If you folks haven't travelled to Three Pines, you really should. I bet you would like it, too.

I took a brief break from my BookTube Prize reading when The Black Wolf became available at my local library. I don’t read mysteries often, but I’ve now read every installment by Louise Penny, and this latest entry shows exactly why I keep coming back. Penny’s writing remains funny, poignant, suspenseful, and remarkably humane. We’re pulled once again into the lives of the villagers of Three Pines, while the story simultaneously widens to include national and global concerns. This time, the plot—centered on a shadowy figure spreading lies, fueling division, and quietly building support across institutions—feels especially unsettling in its relevance. The idea of a hidden network manipulating fear and polarization gives the novel a prescience that’s hard to ignore. As always, the strength of the book lies not just in the mystery itself, but in the evolving relationships among recurring characters and the moral questions that underpin the narrative. Penny continues to balance intimate community storytelling with larger political and social themes in a way that few writers in the genre manage. One caution to new readers: this series really does need to be read in order. Each installment builds on the history and emotional depth established in previous books. It actually took me two novels before I was fully hooked—but once I was, I stayed. And with The Black Wolf, that long-term investment continues to pay off.

a powerful portrayal of the evils of official corruption within and linked to the US military ... powerful story as expected from Patterson

Great book! A page turned that keeps you guessing up until the end!

One could be forgiven for momentarily thinking that a book titled THE SUMMER HOUSE involves bodies passionately bouncing off of each other over the course of a week or two in June. James Patterson and Brendan DuBois’ novel is anything but that. Yes, there are bodies bouncing throughout the book, but not in the carnal sense. What we have here is a thriller from beginning to end, wrapped around the nugget of an intriguing and puzzling mystery. The Summer House was originally conceived, constructed and utilized as a seasonal retreat in rural Georgia for a wealthy family. However, over the decades, it passed outside of the family and gradually devolved into a by-the-month rental property, which, in the novel’s present, has fallen into disrepair and disrepute. Indeed, as the book opens, it is little more than a local hub for some small-time drug trade. Within the first few pages, it also becomes the scene of a horrific mass murder. The whodunit element of the story seems resolved almost immediately. Eyewitnesses, forensics and security footage from nearby businesses all demonstrate conclusively that an elite team of Army Rangers known as the Night Ninjas are the doers. Recently returned from Afghanistan, they are noteworthy and notorious for quickly and quietly attacking home bases and leaving carnage in their wake, which is exactly what occurred at the Summer House. The Army sends Major Jeremiah Cook and his team to investigate and make sure that all the t’s are crossed. Cook is an Army veteran and former NYPD detective. He bears scars and secondary limitations from combat action, but steadfastly refuses to let either prevent him from getting the job done. His squad, each of whom possesses a certain investigative skill set, accompanies him to look at what appears to be an open-and-shut case. Interestingly enough, no one, from the local sheriff to officers on the nearby military base, seems to want Cook and his men around. The Night Ninjas are not particularly well-liked, and the evidence seems incontrovertible. But Cook is determined to work the case by the numbers, even when the head of the Night Ninjas strikes a deal to plead guilty on the condition that the remaining members of his team are exonerated and released. Yet Cook can’t let things go, and when parts of the evidence begin to unravel, he follows a slender thread of truth back to a place where he had vowed never to return. His team, meanwhile, is experiencing life-threatening danger from an unexpected source. Truth and lives are at stake, and there is a significant question as to whether either or both will survive to the end of the book. Patterson and DuBois have collaborated on a number of occasions, but this is arguably the best of the works that their partnership has produced thus far, which is saying something. DuBois has been prolific on his own, and the considerable writing chops he brings to the table will keep you reading well into the night. Full of twists, turns and action, THE SUMMER HOUSE makes for terrific reading this summer and beyond. Reviewed by Joe Hartlaub

I thought that this book was good

This story kept me on the edge of my seat. Especially the last few chapters. I was not sure how it would end. Not as predictable as Patterson's other books.

Wow I had no idea that when I started this book I wouldn't be able to p ut it down. Nonstop action and suspense! So glad I got The Summer House! Definitely give it a read, you won't be sorry!

Exceptional. The idea was great, the storyline mysterious. I seriously can't think of any negative aspects of the book. My rating is 4.5 but that's just for personal interests and preferences. A great read.

This was another in the very long list of enjoyable novels by James Patterson and a co-author. I don’t believe I’ve previously read anything by Brendon DuBois, but I shall certainly seek out other works of his. The Summer House grabs you from page one and never lets up. It’s set in a fictitious rural county near Savannah, Georgia. Also in the novel is a fictitious army base (located in a different county). I’m not sure if this was supposed to represent the Home of the Rangers or just where many of them were stationed and had maneuvers. The plot has 4 Army Rangers jailed for a slaughter of 7 local citizens – all together in a drug house. The Army sends a team of 4 CID to investigate the situation and make sure that justice is maintained and served. This story involved a lot but everything was well delineated and not confusing. Also the action was straight forward which I appreciated. 5* all around. Excellent.

This was my first James Patterson book and Brendan Dubois and gosh darn I have been missing out!!! I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I cannot wait to read more of each. The story was interesting. The pacing was perfect. The ending was great. I hope we get to hear more about CID agent Cooper in the future. I was engaged in the story the entire time. Definitely recommend! Edit- I forgot to add. I LOVE the Publix cameo. Pub Subs for life 🥰.

I do love to read a James Patterson every now and then and this one did not disappoint. It’s like watching one of those ex-military police investigation shows. It’s just for pure entertainment. I really enjoyed it for what it was and did not have any additional expectations of it.

Wow James Patterson has not disappointed once again. What an awesome summer read.....finished in 4 days - could not put it down...... Non stop action .....Love it highly recommend

Stephanie Plum is at the top of her game in this 28th book of the series. Her sidekick Lula (I got a whole wardrobe based on boobs and booty.) is struggling a bit. Her hairdresser left town and she can't get the right look. On top of that she seems to be finding herself more accident-prone than Stephanie. What the what? If you love this series (and Diesel in particular) you will not be disappointed with this latest installment. There is a group called Hot Potato who is trying to save the world. Grandma Mazur is trying to learn how to be a hacker. Stephanie's mom takes up knitting. The car casualty count is greater than zero. Life is good in the Berg. Love this series so much that I will listen to Lorelei King read it to me once it is available on audio. Get ready for Going Rogue, Stephanie Plum #29) set for release on November 1, 2022.

5 Stars for Game On: Tempting Twenty-Eight by Janet Evanovich read by Lorelei King. I’m still really enjoying this series. Especially when Lorelei King is narrating. I hope it goes on forever. It’s always fun to see how many cars Stephanie Plum can destroy in one novel.

I read too many books at a time and it took me longer than normal but Definitely a fantastic read! I had no idea this author’s book is what I have been looking for. I loved the humor. I enjoyed Stephanie’s Grandma’s humor, sass, and overall attitude. Good set of characters overall. The men in Stephanie’s life all sounded wonderful and handsome. Lucky her! I have seen this author’s books a few times but it’s still on my TBR. Luckily I made time for it this month and enjoyed reading it a lot. I will for sure read more of her books in the future! I did enjoyed the Stephanie Plum movie I saw awhile back. Stephanie’s mom sounded like my mom. She washed my clothes and cooked for me when I visited her. I liked her comment about cooking and knitting. So true! I would like to know what she decided to do with her “thing” in the end because it exceeded the length of a scarf. I enjoyed the light romance in this book. This book started with Stephanie, bail bonds enforcement, as she was woken up in the middle of the night by a noise in her living room. She panicked and thought about the location of her gun and phone, none of which was by her side, when Diesel appeared. Diesel was her rare more than friends boy toy because his job often took place overseas. Now he’s back in town and wanted to pick where things left off with Stephanie. Stephanie refused him this time because she has a boyfriend named Morelli. Her new client was named Oswald because he failed to show up at the courthouse. His crime was breaking and entering. But Diesel is here because his client is also Oswald. Turned out, Oswald did more. He hacked Diesel’s secret employer and the employer wanted Diesel to fetch Oswald. Along the way, one to two person(s) was killed and another person admitted that he and his friends hacked into Oswald’s computer system. They all thought maybe Oswald had that person(s) killed in retaliation. Game On was well written and a fast paced read! I enjoyed the cat and mouse chase. I liked that Stephanie utilized all strategies to catch the bad guy. She took in ideas from everyone and took actions. I liked her close relationship with her family. The Baked Potatoes group sounded fun. Would have been great to read their chat during their hacking process and their short lived success. I think this thriller was a light hearted read. The killing was bad but readers were spared the details. Although this book belong in a long series, I was okay reading it as a standalone. I have collected a few books by this author so I’m excited to start reading the next one, even if I’m reading backwards in this series. I do recommend everyone to read this book! xoxo, Jasmine at www.Howusefulitis.com for more details Many thanks to Atria Books for the opportunity to read and review. Please be assured that my opinions are honest.

A comfort read. Totally absurd. Did I enjoy my ride in total ridiculousness? Yup-- every minute of it.

Another laugh out loud adventure with Stephanie and Lula. Diesel is back!! Plus there is Morelli and Ranger. I wish I had her dilemma, 3 hotties that want you. Lula is a hoot. Looking forward to the next misadventure.

This was an awesome read !!! I love Stephanie and Lula so much. But mostly Lula she is a lovely sassy woman. I started reading this series only one year ago so I am not tired yet. However, I am so mad that we decided to stick with Morelli when there are sexy men like Ranger on the loose.

Yahoo! Diesel is back and still vague on who or what he works for! This book may not have been the funniest in the series, but it was among the scariest! Everyone makes an appearance in this book, and the coolest thing is, is that Lula seems to have lost her mojo, and Stephanie gained it. I can't wait to hear what everyone says about the bat episode or Lula's hair *snicker*! Alas, Stephanie is up to her usual with her cars...woe is me! What is up with the odd swearing language tho? Maybe I'm having a senior moment, but I don't remember that from past books. Then again, I don't remember much swearing at all in any of the books. I loved it, and it will be going on my comfort read shelf, right along with the rest of the series---actually ANYTHING written by Ms. Evanovich! *ARC supplied by the publisher, St. Martins press/Atria, Janet Evanovich the author, and NetGalley.

Although book 28 in a series, Game On is the first Stephanie Plum novel I have read. Stephanie Plum is a bail bond enforcement agent and the protagonist of 27 previous novels by Janet Evanovich. Even though this book is well into a series it reads fine as a stand alone. As Stephanie chases up a few people who have skipped bail she comes across one that is proving to be quite elusive and very dangerous. Computer hacker Oswald Wednesday manages to stay one step ahead and is playing a cat and mouse game with Plum. Evanovich's writing is fast paced making the book a quick read. The story is equal parts laugh-out-loud funny and tension filled drama. I loved the banter between Stephanie and Diesel, who is also chasing after Oswald Wednesday. Stephanie and Lula also have a great rapport and I enjoyed the way they bounce off each other. I'm eager to read the previous books to see where Ranger, Stephanie's protector, and Diesel fit into Stephanie's love life. She is currently living with Detective Joe Morelli however is still enamored with Diesel and Ranger. In between all the action, Stephanie's assistant Lula and Grandma Mazur add plenty of humorous moments and a good dose of spirit. I am happy to have been introduced to this engaging series and I enjoyed this book so much I raced out and bought five more books in the series. A vast array of interesting characters and some well placed one liners make Game On an entertaining read. *I received my copy from the publisher

Another hit in the Stephanie Plum series! I honestly can't get enough of these books. They always make me howl with laughter. I highly recommend this series to anyone who enjoys bounty hunting, mystery, and humor!

Ms. Evanovich is back at her best in this new installment of the Stephanie Plum series! Stephanie is a bounty hunter whose “skips” just won’t cooperate so she can get her bills paid. Of course she blows up some cars, gets kidnapped, and fails to talk Lula out of carrying her weapon. This particular story features hackers who may have gotten in over their heads. For some reason, Stephanie thinks they should stay with her parents. Between her grandmother and mother, There are some crazy scenes. I laughed out loud and tried to reason with these characters. They just kept eating donuts. If you’ve ever enjoyed this series, you don’t want to miss number 28. It’s fast and fun, and the audiobook is wonderful.

While every character is funny, when Lulu shows up, hilarity ensues. From getting a bat in her hair to her prodigious eating of chicken in a bucket (crispy preferred) and following with enough doughnuts to satisfy the entire 7th fleet, Lulu is my favorite character in this knee slapping series.

Very possibly the best book in this fun and whacky series!!!

Five stars! Much too exciting but there were a few laughs. Poor Lula as she really suffered in this one. This villain was almost as terrifying as Ramirez in one of the early books. Recommended to take your mind off everything!

Stephanie Plum has been my constant companion for decades, but she never seems to get any older. We should all be so lucky! My thanks go to Net Galley and Atria Books for the invitation to read and review. This book is for sale now. Stephanie is a bounty hunter, working for her cousin Vinnie’s bail bond service. She tracks down no-shows, takes them to have their hearings rescheduled, and collects a commission. Her mother wishes fervently that she would get a normal job such as a bank teller, or just go ahead and marry long-time boyfriend Officer Joe Morelli, and keep house and raise kiddies. But Stephanie is long on independence, and she’s short on marketable skills, and so this is what she does. And we readers are well aware that she wouldn’t be half this hilarious as a housewife, so we cheer her on. In an interview, author Evanovich said she had lit on the idea of a bounty hunter protagonist because the writer doesn’t need a background in legal matters the way that she would if she used a cop, detective, or lawyer. The primary skill required of a bail bonds enforcer is lying, and she felt she had a good grasp of that one. You gotta love it. There have been a few wobbles in the series, and a moment (long ago) when I thought perhaps it was played out. But like her intrepid protagonist, the author rallied and came back stronger than ever. Can you read this book if you haven’t read any of the others in the series? Yes. Yes, you surely can; but you are most likely going to want to go back for the rest once you do so. There are a few things that strike me as I read this one. I suddenly find myself wondering why Stephanie doesn’t seem to have women friends. She’s lived in Trenton—in the Burg—her entire life, so shouldn’t she have a few lifelong pals? But by the end of the story, I realized that her work buds are her go-to girls. Lula gets into a scrape and leaves what little she has to Stephanie (but of course, Lula pulls through. I don’t feel like this is a spoiler; since when would a riotously funny writer like Evanovich off a main character?) Connie is a distant relative, but she’s also a friend. I also find myself, like other reviewers, wondering about the sanitized language and decreasing vocabulary levels. We’ve been drifting in this direction for awhile. At the start of the series, profanity was used by the people and in the situations where you’d expect to find it. The overall language level was accessible to anybody that finished eighth grade. Over the last several episodes, however, it’s been drifting downward. Now, apart from one “damn”, I found nothing, although the euphemisms are stellar (“What the fork,” “What the Hellman’s Mayonnaise,” “Son of a bagel.”) And the overall vocabulary level is now down to about fifth grade. If it goes any lower (see the author’s other series,) I may not be interested anymore, but as it stands, it’s fast, it’s snappy, and I’m in. The usual elements—escorting Grandma Mazur to viewings at the mortuary; exploding cars; men surprising Stephanie when they let themselves into her locked apartment; dinner with Stephanie’s parents; a geeky witness, or victim, or possibly even an offender, that Stephanie takes under her wing; and the red-hot Joe Morelli are all present and accounted for. Stephanie’s mother has been drinking heavily every time Stephanie gets into a dangerous scrape, and Evanovich has been toying with some character development in her direction. I hope she follows through. The tension of Stephanie trying to decide between Morelli and the mysterious Ranger is over, for now, at least, and it was getting old, so I applaud this development. She knows that Ranger will never marry her, and there’s a lot he’ll never tell her. She knows Morelli. They grew up together, and they understand one another. Marriage, maybe not yet; but Joe is the one. She’s tempted by others in this installment, but for once, she behaves herself. Good. Whereas this series isn’t the magnificent literary accomplishment attained by some mystery Grand Masters, and it doesn’t try to be, I rate it as five stars in the humor genre. It made me laugh out loud on page two, and though I read quite a lot of books each year, those that have made me howl this year can be counted on one hand. It’s a more valuable characteristic than some might guess, especially during these tense times. Highly recommended to those that need a good laugh.

4.5 stars I am a LONG time Janet Evanovich reader…she and I have been together pretty much all of my adult years! 😳🥳 I recently read and thoroughly enjoyed her latest release, Game On: Tempting Twenty-Eight. It is a super fun, humorous, entertaining addition to the light-hearted quirky, comedic, numbered, mystery series. It has all the characters we have grown to love, even some from the past make an appearance. It’s also chock-full of the quintessential antics we’ve come to expect from the disastrously, delightful duo of Stephanie and Lula. Her stories are my tried and true. They are the perfect literary comfort food: familiar, easy-reading that I know will put a smile on my face. I always look forward to revisiting this series and can count on them for a good time. Please don’t stop writing ✍️

